02.27.2019	“I have two children. I want them safe at school, at work, and in our community. Americans deserve real solutions to combat gun violence; we can achieve that while protecting the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens.” share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after voting against Democrats' legislation regarding gun control: "We should do everything that works to stop gun violence. The key being - works. “Regrettably, ‘universal’ backgrounds checks wouldn’t have stopped America’s mass shootings, but accurate background checks can. Fort Hood, Charleston, Southerland Springs and the recent shooting in Aurora – all might have been prevented with real-time, accurate background checks. “That’s why I and other Republicans support a new law to fix the flaws in the national background check system – insisting that local, state and federal governments work together to share information and stop firearms from getting into the hands of those who shouldn’t have them. “We have to do more. I support more mental health resources, more research into what drives mass shootings, more local law enforcement training and more to stop black-market firearms sales and ‘straw purchasers’. “I have two children. I want them safe at school, at work, and in our community. Americans deserve real solutions to combat gun violence; we can achieve that while protecting the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens.” Background: In the 115th Congress, Representative Brady supported these important pieces of legislation: The Fix NICS Act, which strengthens and enforces the laws overseeing the National Instant Criminal Background Check System; The STOP School Violence Act to provide grants to states, local governments, and Indian tribes to improve school security; and Clarifications to the "Dickey Amendment," which finally allows the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to conduct research on gun violence. In addition, Representative Brady is supporting the Mass Violence Prevention (MVP) Act of 2019: The MVP Act addresses the underlying causes of repeated tragedies, such as failing to enforce existing laws and the lack of coordination between law enforcement. The MVP Act will reduce the flow of firearms into the black market, limiting the number of weapons available to criminals; and The MVP Act establishes a command center at the FBI—improving law enforcement coordination, information sharing and responsiveness to help prevent these mass violence attacks before they happen. ###
02.26.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after voting against a partisan House resolution that would overturn the national emergency declared by President Trump: “In Texas, we can no longer turn a blind eye to the thousands of young children forced into prostitution, friends who are ruined by drug addiction and loved ones lost to violence from our porous border. "Regrettably, Democrats in Congress have made it clear they are not willing to make national security a priority or help us find a full solution. "Unlike President Obama’s serial constitutional violations, President Trump has both the legal and constitutional right to declare a national emergency on the southern border. "It’s time to act – I support the President’s commitment to funding smart, effective solutions.” Background: The Presidents Executive Action declaring a national emergency makes available additional troops and funding for military construction. The Administration has identified up to $6.7 billion, including: About $601 million from the Treasury Forfeiture Fund Up to $2.5 billion under the Department of Defense funds transferred for Support for Counterdrug Activities (Title 10 United States Code, section 284) Up to $3.6 billion reallocated from Department of Defense military construction projects under the President’s declaration of a national emergency (Title 10 United States Code, section 2808) The Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, and the Army Corps of Engineers are working to create a prioritized list of segments and a work plan for the remainder of FY 2019 and beyond. New projects could include: new levee wall, new and replacement primary pedestrian barrier, new vehicle-to-pedestrian barrier, and new secondary barrier. Presidential authority to declare a national emergency as allowed under the National Emergencies Act. Since 1976, Presidents have declared nearly 60 national emergencies. Most of the previously declared national emergencies have been continually renewed and are still in effect, after being continually renewed. Multiple Governors have declared states of emergency along the border in the past. Former Arizona Governor Janet Napolitano, who became President Obama’s DHS Secretary, declared a state of emergency along the border in 2005. Former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson also declared a state of emergency at the border in 2005. Former President George W. Bush and former President Obama both directed the use of the military to assist DHS in securing and managing the Southern Border. Former President Bush declared a national emergency in 2001 which invoked reprogramming authority granted by Title 10 United States Code, section 2808, and both he and former President Obama used that authority a total of 18 times to fund projects between 2001 and 2014.
02.14.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after voting against H.J. Res. 31, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2019: “Congresswoman Kay Granger of Texas did a remarkable job leading the negotiations for House Republicans, and secured every dime she could from Democrats who vowed not to spend one dollar on a physical barrier for our southern border. "The spending bill is certainly a first step towards securing our nation’s border but I believe Congress should do more to seriously address this national security crisis. Texas pays an extremely high price for a porous southern border, and it is not fair to our citizens and our communities if we let partisan politics get in the way of a true solution. “The $1.375 billion for a smart, physical wall along the border where it makes sense and added detection technology where it makes sense – as well as additional funding for judges to work off the backlog of border cases and construction of additional processing centers along the border - are important, no doubt. Congress should continue to work with the President to find more resources to direct towards border security.” Background: Yesterday, the bipartisan and bicameral conference committee tasked with finding a compromise on government funding and border security released the text of their proposed legislation to fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year. Although the Democratic Majority in the U.S. House established a rule that lawmakers and the public must have a full 72 hours to read the text of a bill before it is voted on, the 1,159 page bill and 609 page report was voted on in less than a day.
02.06.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement in support of the re-introduction of the Born Alive Survivors Protection Act: “I want to thank my colleague, Rep. Anne Wagner, for re-introducing this important legislation. Last night, President Trump called on Congress to defend the dignity of all children, born or unborn. This is a great step in that direction because it ensures that any infant born alive after an abortion receives the same medical treatment and protection of law that any newborn would. I have already sponsored multiple pro-life and pro-family bills in the 116th Congress, and I see this as another important step in the fight for life. As a co-sponsor of this bill, I’m honored to join my colleagues in support of this crucial piece of legislation.” Background: The Born Alive Survivors Protection Act, introduced by Rep. Anne Wagner (R-MO), proposes important measures that would protect the life of any child born alive after an abortion. These measures include requiring health-care practitioners to employ all skills and health care available to a born-alive baby that would be otherwise afforded to a newborn, and requiring healthcare practitioners to report violations of this to law enforcement. Furthermore, this act would penalize the intentional killing of a born-alive child while providing the mother of the child civil cause of action and protection from prosecution. In the 116th Congress, Representative Brady has supported multiple pieces of pro-life legislation, including; · The Life at Conception Act, sponsored by Rep. Alex Mooney (WV-02), which provides equal protection for the lives of born and preborn persons. · The Defund Planned Parenthood Act, sponsored by Rep. Vicky Hartzler (MO-04), which prohibits funding Planned Parenthood for one year, reallocating the savings to community health centers. · The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, sponsored by Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-04), which prohibits performing an abortion on an unborn baby who is 20 week or older. · The Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act, sponsored by Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-02), which prohibits sex-selected abortions, aborting a child on the basis of the child’s gender. · The Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act, sponsored by Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-04), which makes it a crime to knowingly transport a minor across a state line, circumventing parental consent and state notification requirements, in order to obtain an abortion. ###
02.02.2019	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) congratulated D’Anne Emmett Spence of Huntsville, Texas, as she was promoted to the rank of Colonel of the United States Air Force, and invited her to be his guest at the State Of The Union Address. Huntsville native and Air Force Colonel D'Anne Emmett Smith “I want to offer my sincerest congratulations to D’Anne Emmett Spence on her promotion," said Brady. “Achieving the rank of Colonel speaks to her outstanding character, work ethic, and service to her nation. As a Huntsville native, Spence embodies all of the very best that the Eighth Congressional District of Texas has to offer, and it’s truly an honor to represent her in Congress.” “I am honored and grateful to be selected for my promotion,” Spence stated. “I have so many people in my personal and professional lives to thank for their support and encouragement – especially my parents and children. Without their guidance, leadership and love I would not be where I am today. I am excited to continue serving the Air Force, and my country, in this new role.” Colonel D’Anne Emmett Spence will be accompanying Congressman Kevin Brady to the Capitol as his guest for next week’s State of The Union Address. “I have had the privilege of working alongside Colonel Spence when she spoke to local cadets during our annual Military Academy Sendoff Breakfast,” Brady said. “She is an inspiration and role model to so many in our community, and I couldn’t think of a better guest to accompany me.” Lt. Colonel Champe Miller, Brady and Spence at 2013 Academy Day Sendoff Breakfast. Spence was the keynote speaker, offering encouragement to students who were accepted into military academies after being nominated by Brady. “Throughout my time in the Air Force I have been fortunate to experience many amazing things, travel around the globe, and serve my country in many capacities,” Spence said upon accepting the invitation. “Attending the State of the Union Address with Congressman Kevin Brady will certainly top the list. I am humbled at this opportunity to act as a representative of the Great State of Texas, and excited to hear the messages directly from our Commander in Chief.” Born and raised in Huntsville, Colonel D’Anne Emmett Spence is the proud daughter of Joe and Judy Emmett. Longtime Huntsville resident Joe Emmett has owned and operated Emmett Plumbing for over 40 years, and he has served as a City of Huntsville Councilman since 2012. Judy Emmett also represents her community as an elected official on the Hospital district, a member of the Sam Houston University Alumni Board, and has been a real estate broker in the Huntsville area for over 40 years. “We are so delighted for our daughter, D’Anne,” the Emmetts said. “As we have watched her grow from a Cadet at the US Air Force Academy, to now a Colonel, we have seen her accomplish so many things in her service to this great nation. As civil servants ourselves, we have raised D’Anne to live a life of serving others and we could not be more proud.” Colonel D'Anne Emmett Smith and her family at promotion ceremony February 1, 2019 - Left to right - daughter Samantha Spence, Colonel D'Anne Emmett Spence, son Emmett Spence, mother Judy Emmett, father Joe Emmett Upon graduation from Huntsville High School in 1995, Spence was recruited to the Air Force Academy to play tennis. After graduating the Academy in 1999 with a degree in Chemistry, Spence entered the Air Force while continuing her studies, earning multiple advanced degrees. Her vast career experience includes headquarter assignments with positions for the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, being the Special Assistant Chief for Legislative Affairs Office of the Secretary of Defense, holding the position of Chief, Legislative Liaison for Defense Programs at the National Nuclear Security Administration, Department of Energy, teaching as a professor at the Academy, and acting as the current United States Air Force Academy Liaison to the National Capital Region, Washington DC Office. She currently resides in Arlington, VA with her two children, Samantha and Emmett. Note: Click on pictures to download hi-res versions. ###
02.01.2019	Washington, D.C. –Today, the top Republican on the Ways and Means Committee Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement in response to the Labor Department’s January 2019 jobs report: “While Democrats continue to debate how high they are willing to tax families, the GOP Tax Cuts keep paying real, measurable dividends for American workers and small businesses. Wages and benefits for workers checked in at an 11-year high this week, and today’s jobs numbers show a strong and growing U.S. economy. It’s incredibly important that we work together to build on these important reforms so jobs and paychecks keep moving in this positive direction.” Note:The U.S. Department of Labor reported today that the economy added 304,000 jobs in January and the unemployment rate was 4.0 percent.
01.18.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement reiterating his commitment to pro-life causes and legislation: “Today, thousands will gather in our nation’s capital and come together in a March for Life, taking a passionate stand and supporting the sanctity of life and the rights of the unborn. As we move into the minority, it is more important than ever to safeguard the significant work we have done to protect life. My wife Cathy and I are parents only because of two women who chose life, and we know first-hand how impactful and important it can be. I remain committed to fighting for important pro-life and pro-family legislation in the 116th Congress.” Shawn Carney, resident of TX-08 and President and CEO of 40 Days For Life, stated: “As a husband and father of two adopted children, Congressman Brady has joined over 800,000 volunteers who have united across America and in 50 countries to peacefully pray for an end to abortion during a 40 Days for Life campaign. Our pro-life convictions should be reflected in pro-life bills that protect the most vulnerable Americans and defund the nation’s largest abortion operation, Planned Parenthood. Despite 46 years of legalized abortion there has never been more hope or momentum in the pro-life movement. A movement that gets younger by the day.” In the 116th Congress, Representative Brady has supported multiple pieces of pro-life legislation, including; · The Life at Conception Act, sponsored by Rep. Alex Mooney (WV-02), which provides equal protection for the lives of born and preborn persons. · The Defund Planned Parenthood Act, sponsored by Rep. Vicky Hartzler (MO-04), which prohibits funding Planned Parenthood for one year, reallocating the savings to community health centers. · The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, sponsored by Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-04), which prohibits performing an abortion on an unborn baby who is 20 week or older. · The Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act, sponsored by Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-02), which prohibits sex-selected abortions, aborting a child on the basis of the child’s gender. · The Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act, sponsored by Rep. Mike Johnson (LA-04), which makes it a crime to knowingly transport a minor across a state line, circumventing parental consent and state notification requirements, in order to obtain an abortion ###
01.10.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) joined three Texas talk shows this week to discuss the crisis at the southern border: On Wednesday evening, Brady joined Joe Pagliarulo on The Joe Pags Show, live on WOAI in San Antonio (segment starts at 20:56): "I love the fact that he just went straight to the American people on this and he got to do in his own words. Because when I, up here, read and see what he's talking about, versus what's covered in the national media, it is dramatically different. He made the case convincingly. He was factual, he knew the issue, he laid out examples." "Obviously we all watched Speaker Pelosi and Leader Schumer and they were petty, and political and partisan. I think the only thing that Senator Schumer got right is there is no excuse to keep the government shut down. He needs to sit down with this President, find common ground, secure the border, and reopen the government." "They're just so dysfunctional about this President - no matter what he does, they're against it." Thursday morning, Brady spoke with Jimmy Barrett and Shara Fryer on KRTH in Houston: "I think it's smart for [President Trump] to come the border. He made the case pretty calmly, pretty factually about why we do have a crisis at the border and the seriousness of it. Here in Houston, it doesn't take a lot of convincing. Our region is the number one sex trafficking hub in the nation -- almost 300,000 victims of sex trafficking in Texas. We see the impact of the MS-13 gangs, the criminals, the meth, the heroin, the drugs - you know, we see it firsthand. More has to be done and he's simply saying we gotta have more resources for it." "We are a welcoming country. We welcome legal immigration. We accept those who are truly fleeing persecution. We do that as a country. But this is about stopping the bad actors who also use that same border. They can argue about the numbers all the want, but we know in Texas how damaging this can be and that the border isn't secure." "The President not only made a compelling case for this, but he's repeatedly said look, 'I am flexible in how we do this. If we want to allocate funding over several years, if you have a different approach - Democrats - to solving this problem, I'm open to that as well.' But they just seem dug in on zero money, not a dollar for the wall, period. Democrats just can't say no, and walk away, and expect this problem to be solved." "We're right on this issue. The border is not secure. Everyone knows it and in the past Democrats knew it too and voted for funding, including fencing and barriers, more agents, in bigger numbers than what President Trump is requesting right now." Brady also went on the Mark Davis Show on AM 660 The Answer in Dallas on Thursday morning: “[The President] referred to politicians who have walls around their own home - his point is really a great point - you don't have that there because you hate the people outside, it's because you love the people inside. He believes - and I do too - that his number one priority, his Constitutional responsibility, is to keep Americans safe." "[Houston] is the number one hub for human sex trafficking in the U.S. 80,000 underage kids, boys and girls, are forced into prostitution. The meth, the heroin, the MS-13 gangs, which continue to murder with impunity - we see all that in real life in our communities. The national media can try to fact check all they want, but the facts on the ground are real people, innocent people, pay the price when that southern border isn't adequately patrolled." ###
01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) released the following statement regarding President Trump's address to the American people regarding the humanitarian and security crisis on the southern border: “I continue to stand with President Trump in his efforts to secure our border and prioritize national security. In the Houston region, we’re all too familiar with the damage caused by MS-13 gangs, drug trafficking and sex trafficking, much of which comes from the southern border. Our border is not secure and the communities I represent pay the price. “The only thing Senator Schumer got right tonight is that there is no excuse to keep the government shut down. It’s time for Senate and House Democrats to come to the table and discuss the President’s common sense solutions to end this humanitarian and security crisis on our southern border, and fully reopen our government.” ###
01.07.2019	Conroe, Tex. – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) today announced that Chloe Wick, a native of The Woodlands and recent graduate from Baylor University, began a new position as intern for the spring semester at his office in Washington, DC. "We're glad to have Chloe on board this semester," said Brady. "Each intern brings their own fresh perspective to what it means to work and serve in Congress. Sometimes my team and I learn as much from them as they learn from the experience." "It's really an honor to have this opportunity, especially to work for my own Congressman," said Wick. "It's exciting to graduate from college and then have this chance to pursue my goals in the halls of our nation's Capitol." Chloe grew up in The Woodlands with six siblings and her parents also fostered several other children, allowing her the opportunity to claim several more brothers and sisters. She graduated from College Park High School in 2015, and then attended Baylor University, graduating in December with a Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education. While attending Baylor, Chloe led a Bible Study for Kappa Kappa Gamma and volunteered as a tutor at an elementary school. She also had the opportunity to mentor elementary age students as a volunteer for Pursue Mentoring Organization. Before coming to Washington, Chloe also worked as a kindergarten student teacher at an early childhood center, a substitute teacher at Conroe ISD, and a second grade student teacher at an elementary school. While living in Washington, Chloe looks forward to learning more about the legislative process, attending a Washington Nationals game, making new friends and landing a job at the Department of Education. ###
01.06.2019	Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) released the following statement regarding the passing of Texas Workforce Commission Executive Director Larry Temple: “Not everyone gets to do a job they love and truly makes a difference, but Larry Temple helped his fellow Texans find a job and took great joy in doing it. He was an invaluable resource to the Ways and Means Committee during my time as Chairman, sharing ideas and technical assistance that led to landmark workforce legislation being written and passed by the Committee. As the founding leader of the Secretaries’ Innovation Group, he led the charge in helping his colleagues find the best ways to assist the people they served. An untold number of Americans are better off because of Larry’s hard work and commitment to innovation. “Larry’s loss will be deeply felt in Texas and across the country. I extend my sincere condolences to his wife, Benita, their two sons, Brad and Daniel, and their families.” ###
01.04.2019	"I know the Democrats are hung up on calling it a wall, but I don't care if they call it a gender-neutral palisade or a linear monument to climate change, in truth we need more resources for border security." share: f t Conroe, Tex. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) appeared on Fox News' Outnumbered Overtime with Harris Faulkner to discuss the current government shutdown and the need to build a wall on the southern border. Watch here. I think it's a mistake to go for a quick, hasty deal when really there's so much at stake here. Continued Government Shutdown: "The vote last night in the House was pointless. It accomplished nothing, helps no one, doesn't move us toward common ground. While there are some who would like a quick solution, right now it's really important we have the right solution. And that one is to vote to fully fund the government - to reopen it, to provide more resources for border security, and as the Republican House did, add money for those disasters in the Carolinas, the California wildfires. That is really the common ground. But worries me is House Democrats voted to leave town after only four hours on the job, so it worries me that they're not very concerned about reopening the government. On the need to build the wall: "I think it's a mistake to go for a quick, hasty deal when really there's so much at stake here. I tell you, I'm from the Houston region and we are unfortunately a hot bed for sex trafficking, for drugs, for those gangs from Central America. We pay the price when that border isn't secure. And it's not [secure]. Everyone knows it. We need more resources. I know the Democrats are hung up on calling it a wall, but I don't care if they call it a gender-neutral palisade or a linear monument to climate change, in truth we need more resources for border security. On President Trump's second meeting with Nancy Pelosi: "[Pelosi's] really been held hostage by her most extreme members who wouldn't vote for her for Speaker yesterday unless she was "no, no, no." And I'm hopeful - you know she's promised a new dawn where we find common ground - and I hope she brings a different attitude into the meeting with the President. What I'm hopeful for is that we find the right solution and it could come soon if both parties will compromise. And I think the President has made it clear that he's open to finding a path forward, to his credit." On border security funding: "I think there's a lot of options here using the $5.6 billion, I think roughly is the number that border patrol experts has said is needed with the border wall, the detention, the deterrents, those other technologies that go with it. It could spread over a couple of years. There are a number of ways to do it if the will is there to solve the problem. I just think this shutdown is kinda pointless. We ought to be able to find common ground." ###
12.21.2018	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) released the following statement after voting for legislation to fund the government and secure the border: “For me this was a simple choice – stand with President Trump, keep the government open and build the border wall. Democrats would prefer to have open borders, despite the risk this poses to our national security and the thousands of Border Agents who risk their lives to protect our sovereignty and secure the border. This is political gamesmanship at its worst. The safety and security of our citizens and our homeland are not pawns, and Pelosi and Schumer should be ashamed for treating them as such.” ###
12.20.2018	Washington, DC – After passage in the Senate on Tuesday, the First Step Act was passed by the House on Thursday with overwhelming support from both sides of the aisle. “We can be smart and tough on crime at the same time,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) after voting in favor of the bill. “A number of provisions in the First Step Act mirror many of the same reforms the Texas legislature has implemented at the state level, which has a proven record of saving tax dollars, reducing crime rates, and lowering Texas’ incarceration rate. “This is no “get out of jail free card,” but a chance for inmates to utilize meaningful employment and training opportunities, and other evidence-based programs to help reduce recidivism. This is a win for the inmates, their families, the taxpayers and our communities. I applaud President Trump and his Administration for making this a priority.” The First Step Act requires the Department of Justice (DOJ) to construct an individualized risk-and-needs assessment for every offender upon being sentenced. Subsequently, the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) would offer inmates a tailor-made recidivism reduction plan, which could include resources such as mental health care, anger-management courses, vocational training and other resources. If these programs are successfully completed, low and minimum risk prisoners will begin to earn time credits for pre-release custody. ###
12.01.2018	Conroe, Tex. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the passing of 41st President of the United States, George H.W. Bush: "Few Americans will ever rival the depth and breadth of the service to our country exhibited by George H.W. Bush. He was a courageous war hero, key member of the Committee on Ways and Means while serving in Congress, twice an Ambassador, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Vice President for eight years, and finally President of the United States. But I believe he would say his favorite title was husband to his beloved Barbara, and greatest accomplishment was in raising children who serve their nation with equal dedication and patriotism. "Our country, and indeed our state, have lost a man of honor who leaves a legacy of love and service for his nation and his family. Cathy and I extend our deepest condolences to the Bush family and join the nation in mourning the death of one that history will remember as one of our greatest leaders." ###
11.14.2018	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement after Republican House members voted to elect Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) as Minority Leader and Steve Scalise (R-LA) as Minority Whip for the 116th Congress: “Based on hard work and a strong belief in the American people, the efforts of House Republicans have led to a booming economy, more jobs, higher wages, and real tax relief for American families, workers and small businesses. We delivered on tax cuts and regulatory relief just as we promised, and I look forward to working with Leader McCarthy and Whip Scalise to stop Pelosi and House Democrats from raising taxes and bringing back burdensome regulations, and to fight any abuse of power in their efforts to undermine President Trump. It is my hope that my Democrat colleagues will chose to govern and that we can find common ground on providing more tax relief to Middle Class Americans, enact real retirement reform, and alleviate the burden that the Windfall Elimination Provision places on our hard-working public servants." ###
10.23.2018	HOUSTON, TX – The Job Creators Network national Tax Cuts Work tour stopped in Houston at Three Brothers Bakery today to present House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and U.S. Representative John Culberson with its Defender of Small Business Award for supporting the largest tax cut in history. Chairman Kevin Brady and Rep. John Culberson are honored with the Defender of Small Business Award. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act provides the largest tax relief in history for small businesses, and the economic gains that we’ve made since passing the law are a direct result,” said Brady. “Tax reform has helped create millions of new jobs, increased wages for workers, sparked billions in new small business investment, and grew the economy beyond what any of the doubters believed possible. There is no question that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has changed the trajectory of our economy for the better, across the nation and right here in the Eighth District of Texas.” Culberson, who represents the 7th Congressional District, said the small business tax cuts have been especially important to small businesses and middle-income families in Texas. Chairman Kevin Brady and Rep. John Culberson with members of the Job Creators Network. “The average family in our area is keeping an additional $2,700 per year of their hard-earned paychecks because of last year’s tax cuts. It is money that could be used for a mortgage payment, or a down-payment on a car, or to save for their children’s education,” said Culberson. “The fact is that the tax cuts have ignited our economy, created record levels of job growth, record new investment, and record economic optimism. These tax cuts, coupled with the money I secured in last year’s disaster relief bill for Harvey survivors, will further support the flourishing economy and the resilient spirit of every Houstonian in District Seven.” Alfredo Ortiz, JCN President and CEO, thanked Brady and Culberson for supporting the tax cuts despite sharp opposition. “This is the most important tax law in three decades and it has ignited the US economy,” said Ortiz. “Kevin Brady made small business a top priority in crafting the legislation, and his leadership is one of the main reasons it passed. John Culberson has a 100 percent rating on the Job Creators Network legislative scorecard, which means that he’s been with small business every step of the way. They did the right thing for Texas, small business, and the US economy. That’s why we are proud to present Kevin Brady and John Culberson with the Defender of Small Business Award.” The event was part of JCN’s Tax Cuts Work campaign, featuring a nationwide bus tour to create grassroots support for the tax cuts. A live stream of the event can be watched here. For more information about Job Creators Network, please visit www.jobcreatorsnetwork.com. To learn more about the bus tour, visit www.TaxCutsWork.com. ###
10.16.2018	Last week, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX08) hosted the Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber of Commerce in our nation’s capital. During their time in Washington, the Chamber met with Congressman Brady, Texas Senators Ted Cruz and John Cornyn, and federal agency officials to discuss how tax reform is benefiting the Conroe community and other shared priorities such as workforce development. share: f t Washington, D.C. - Last week, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX08) hosted the Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber of Commerce in our nation’s capital. During their time in Washington, the Chamber met with Congressman Brady, Texas Senators Ted Cruz and John Cornyn, and federal agency officials to discuss how tax reform is benefiting the Conroe community and other shared priorities such as workforce development. “It is always a privilege to meet with business leaders from my district and hear first-hand how tax cuts are helping them expand their companies, hire more workers and increase benefits for their employees,” Congressman Brady said. “One of the biggest goals of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was to help small business owners flourish, and the numbers prove it has done just that.” "As a former Chamber executive, I can attest that the Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber of Commerce does a top-notch job of representing their members and advocating on their behalf," continued Brady. "I hope that this is the first of many future trips to DC and I look forward to continuing to work with them on our shared priorities." “The Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber of Commerce values the opportunity to build relationships with our elected officials,” said Brian Bondy, President of the Chamber. “Using the opportunity of a fly-in provided our members’ the chance to not only meet with them, but to hear how we can work with each other to make our area even more attractive to businesses and residents.” “This was the Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber of Commerce’s first trip to Washington DC and we could not be more pleased," stated George Waggoner, President of First National Bank Texas in Conroe and Chairman of the Board for the Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber. "We had a very productive meeting with Chairman Brady and his staff about issues that are important to our membership and community. The Chairman and his staff were great hosts and we are very grateful not only for their time but for the introductions to many other Congressional Representatives and Governmental Agencies while we were there. This trip was an excellent opportunity for the Chamber to continue our work with Chairman Brady and we hope to be able to build upon the many new relationships and resources started while there.” “In the weeks leading up to this trip, our planning team discussed issues that are critical to both Conroe and its elected officials,” commented Steve Pilgrim, Director of Business and Economic Development for Entergy Texas, Chairman of the Conroe Economic Development Council, and Chamber Board Member. “We were able to talk with Congressman Brady and his staff about those issues and to create opportunities for continued discussion and action. Most of all, I believe that we have taken an important step in creating an even stronger relationship with the Congressman’s Office that will serve us all for years to come as we build on this event.” “It was a privilege to travel with the Chamber to Washington, D.C. as both a member of the Board of Directors and as a representative from higher education," added Dr. Rebecca Riley, President of the Lone Star College Montgomery Campus. "It was a great opportunity to learn more about how Lone Star College can help our community address workforce needs. Our aggressive itinerary allowed us to meet with many agencies, legislators, and staffers who were extremely helpful to us. Best of all, we built relationships among representatives from each of the offices we visited.” The Conroe/Lake Conroe Chamber of Commerce is a 3-Star accredited chamber representing the greater Montgomery County area. Founded in 1934, the Chamber has over 1,100 members who represent a diverse range of businesses and community organizations. The Chamber is dedicated to strengthening the economic environment and quality of life in Montgomery County. ###
10.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas) penned an op-ed for the Dallas Morning News highlighting their bipartisan Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act. The bill would ensure that teachers, firefighters, police officers, and other public servants receive Social Security benefits in accordance with their actual work history. “For over three decades, too many Texas teachers, police officers, firefighters, and other public servants have done their vital work while being subjected to a well-intentioned, but unfair, one-size-fits-all approach to calculating their earned Social Security benefits,” the members wrote. “It's time for that to change. Now, through the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act, bipartisan legislation that we introduced together in the House and Senate, these dedicated men and women can be treated fairly as the accomplished individuals they are, receiving Social Security in line with their work history.” Read the op-ed in its entirety here and below: It's time to give teachers and other public servants fair retirement pay Dallas Morning News October 10, 2018 By: Sen. Ted Cruz and Rep. Kevin Brady For over three decades, too many Texas teachers, police officers, firefighters, and other public servants have done their vital work while being subjected to a well-intentioned, but unfair, one-size-fits-all approach to calculating their earned Social Security benefits. It's time for that to change. Now, through the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act, bipartisan legislation that we introduced together in the House and Senate, these dedicated men and women can be treated fairly as the accomplished individuals they are, receiving Social Security in line with their work history. The root of today's problem is a policy called the Windfall Elimination Provision, or WEP, which was put in place in 1983. It may sound like accounting jargon smothered in bureaucracy, but it has unfairly penalized tens of thousands of Texas teachers, police officers, firefighters and other public servants. Our legislation permanently repeals the current Windfall Elimination Provision, and instead uses a fairer formula that treats public servants like all other American workers. Some folks, like 95 percent of all Texas public school employees, were not required to pay Social Security payroll taxes under their state or local government jobs because they were paying into an alternative system, such as TRS, but did pay into Social Security through a second job, often in the private sector. Prior to the WEP, these folks had their Social Security benefits calculated using the same formula as everyone else. However, this sometimes meant that they earned a higher retirement benefit than their work history supported, and consequently gave them a "windfall" of benefits. The WEP was originally put in place with the intention to prevent this windfall from happening. Instead of creating a fair formula, however, the newly-created WEP forced all public servants who also paid into Social Security into an arbitrary, one-size-fits-all reduction in benefits, with not all public employees being treated equally. Today, the WEP affects over 170,000 Texans. Additionally, retired public servants often did not know that they would be affected by the WEP until they claimed Social Security benefits, since the reduction did not show up in their Social Security statements. This is a poor way to compensate the dedicated men and women who are engaging in the important work of teaching our children, protecting our communities and making our cities function well. They deserve better. The Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act rights this wrong by creating a new formula, one that calculates benefits by taking into account the actual wage and work history of public sector employees. It calculates worker benefits using each worker's total lifetime earnings, and then adjusts for the proportion of earnings that came from a job that pays into Social Security. We also ensure that the reforms in our bill will take effect over time, giving folks the ability to prepare for anticipated changes. It also guarantees that public servants receive Social Security benefits that reflect their actual work history. Additionally, our legislation provides relief to current retirees already affected by the WEP by offering a rebate of $100 per-month for workers, and $50 per-month for those receiving a spousal benefit from Social Security. The amount of the rebate is scheduled to increase along with the rising cost of living. We are grateful for those who devote their careers to our classrooms and communities in Texas and across the country, and we are proud to support our hard-working teachers, first responders, law enforcement, and all other public servants. These fellow Texans stand up for us every day — the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act is our chance to stand up for them.. ###
10.10.2018	House Republicans decided to bet on the American people when we passed theTax Cuts and Jobs Act -letting families keep more of their hard-earned paychecks and helping small business owners invest in their workers and their company.The results have been incredible -- more jobs, bigger paychecks and historic Main Street optimism -- and we want to keep that momentum going. Recently, the House passed Tax Reform 2.0 - three pieces of legislation meant to build on the results of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Each bill focuses on a specific way to further help our working families and small business owners, and you can learn more about each one below. PROTECTING FAMILY AND SMALL BUSINESS TAX CUTS ACT This first bill will lock in the individual and small business tax cuts, helping families and small businesses thrive. The Tax Foundation has estimated that making these tax cuts permanent will create 1.5 million new jobs and increase GDP over 2%. FAMILY SAVINGS ACT This second bill will help more middle-class American families and younger workers save for key life events like retirement, education and unexpected emergencies by expanding access to new and existing savings vehicles. Helping our families save money ensures they are prepared for anything life throws their way. AMERICAN INNOVATION ACT This third bill will help entrepreneurs move from the kitchen table to main street and beyond. With a renewed focus on innovation and entrepreneurship, it will help these risk takers create jobs, invest in their communities, and continue strengthening America’s economy. It's so exciting to be part of changing the culture in Washington. Never again will we wait 30 years to fix our tax code. American companies have to think of new ways to stay competitive every day, and it's time that Congress does everything we can to foster an environment that helps our economy grow, puts working class families first, and allows our U.S. businesses to compete and win around the globe!
09.27.2018	Pictured left to right: Lisa Glass with ROSS Communications; Heather Washburn, District Director for Rep. Brady; Leah Mueller, Manager, Senior Adult Services Department, Jewish Family Services; Janet Qureshi, Director of Case Management for Brady; Ann Tanabe, CEO BioHouston; Kai Wilkinson, District Intern for Brady; Rebecca Stanley, Director of District Operations for Brady; Thomas Mardik, Deputy District Director for Brady. Conroe, TX - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX-08) has been recognized as a “2018 Champion for Healthy Seniors” by the Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease in honor of his service on behalf of seniors in Texas. The award was presented to Brady's district staff by a group of local healthcare and business advocates at Brady’s Conroe office. “Improving the quality of the Medicare program for seniors and individuals with disabilities, while reducing legislative and regulatory burdens has always been a priority for me as a member, and now Chairman, of the House Committee on Ways and Means,” Brady stated. "Congressman Brady’s years of service in continuing to work to protect the health care needs of seniors in Texas and across the country is indisputable,” said Dr. Kenneth Thorpe with the Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease. “Our organization and patients across the state are grateful for his outstanding leadership to ensure through the Medicare Part D program that beneficiaries can continue to have affordable access to crucial prescription medications.” The Champions for Healthy Seniors Award recognizes those Members of Congress who have exhibited outstanding leadership to protect Part D and the benefits it provides to millions of seniors, individuals with disabilities, and their families. The Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease is an organization of patients, providers, community organizations, business and labor groups, and health policy experts. This internationally recognized group is committed to raising awareness of the rising rates of preventable and treatable chronic diseases. Chronic diseases, such as diabetes, COPD, cancer, depression, obesity and heart disease, are the leading causes of death and disability in the United States. ###
09.05.2018	Conroe, TX - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX08) has been recognized as a “Hero of Main Street” by the National Retail Federation for consistently supporting public policy priorities important to the retail industry and its millions of small businesses. The awards were presented as small retailers across the country gathered in Washington for NRF’s Retail Advocates Summit. "I hear great news from retail businesses across my district - their sales are up, they're expanding operations, they're hiring new workers and increasing wages," stated Brady. "The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act jump-started the American economy just as we promised, and we've only just begun. I look forward to passing Tax Reform 2.0 and making the tax cuts for families and small businesses permanent." “Retailers and consumers are feeling good about the state of the U.S. economy, and a big part of that is the result of lawmakers who have made economic growth and job creation a top priority,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “As a Hero of Main Street, Congressman Kevin Brady truly understands that the decisions made in Washington have a real impact on local businesses and communities across the country.” The overwhelming majority of retailers are small businesses, with more than 98 percent of all retail companies employing fewer than 50 people. The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013, and eligibility is based on key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance retailers’ priorities. Recipients have supported policies that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. The National Retail Federation is the world’s largest retail trade association. Based in Washington, D.C., NRF represents discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private-sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs — 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. ###
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – A year ago, Hurricane Harvey made landfall and became one of the worst natural disasters in the history of the United States. To mark the one year anniversary, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “Hurricane Harvey left hundreds of Texas families homeless and without resources, and 88 Texans lost their lives. On day one, the Texas congressional delegation took action and worked to deliver historic relief in record time. In just six months, we delivered $146 billion in aid - the quickest hurricane disaster response yet. Members from both sides of the aisle have been and will continue to be a united front when it comes to ensuring our communities have the support they need in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. Looking back, what I remember most is how Texans came together to lend a hand and help their neighbors during our time of need. There was an outpouring of support from nearby communities and across the country, neighbors helping neighbors. Everyday people volunteered their time and resources to local shelters, and even used their own boats and cars in rescue missions. We have come out of this stronger than ever; ‘Texas Strong’ in fact. Because that’s what Texans do.” BACKGROUND August 26, 2017: Harvey makes landfall. September 2017: Congress passes 1st disaster relief bill, President Trump signs into law. September 2017: Congressman Brady secures tax relief for victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, President Trump signs into law. The Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017: Featured targeted actions to help American families and communities impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Helped victims keep more of their paycheck, deduct more of the cost of their expensive property damage, and have more affordable and immediate access to money they have saved for their retirement. Encouraged even more Americans to donate generously to help those in need. Allowed more people be able to bear the tremendous expense of recovering from these destructive hurricanes. October 2017: Congress passes 2nd disaster relief bill, President Trump signs into law. December 2017: Texas and Florida House Lawmakers join forces to nearly double aid. January 2018: House waits on Senate to act (49-days). February 9th, 2018: Congress passes 3rd disaster relief bill and President Trump signs into law. In total, $146 Billion in relief funding was delivered in six months.
08.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Earlier this month, the nonpartisan Tax Foundation released a new analysis projecting the number of new full-time jobs that will be created in each state over the next decade due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The report finds that “from 2018 to 2025, the country should expect to see over 1.44 million new full-time equivalent (FTE) jobs created.” Just this year, Texas has seen over 18,000 full-time jobs and should expect to see 121,671 jobs added through 2025. Every state will see increased job creation due to tax reform. Not a single Democrat voted in favor of tax reform legislation creating these 1.44 million new jobs. "Republicans are working to build on this growth. Tax Reform 2.0 is centered on making the individual and small business tax cuts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act permanent, which is estimated to add an additional 1.5 million full-time jobs in the long term. These reforms emphasize our commitment to continue making our tax code more competitive, innovative, and family-focused." - Congressman Kevin Brady
07.20.2018	"These heroes have sacrificed so much for us, and I’m proud to work hard to ensure they get the care they have earned." share: f t CONROE, TX – Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) announced today that the Veterans Clinic in Conroe is nearing the end of construction for a much-needed expansion. The fourth floor of the building will soon host a 3,850 square foot dental facility that will include eight chairs, a lab and x-ray capabilities. This is in addition to the other lab services and radiology offered on the fourth floor, as well as occupational and physical therapy. “This is exciting news for our area veterans,” said Brady, who was instrumental in appropriating funds for expansion. “For those eligible veterans, receiving quality dental care will be more convenient. These heroes have sacrificed so much for us, and I’m proud to work hard to ensure they get the care they have earned.” “We are thrilled to be able to bring dental services out to our Veterans in the Conroe area,” said Francisco Vazquez, Director of the Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center in Houston, which manages the Conroe VA Clinic. “Since our new clinic in Conroe opened just a few years ago, we have seen a big increase in the number of Veterans we serve. We are honored by the opportunity to serve our Veterans and are committed to providing world-class health care at our convenient Conroe location.” Construction is anticipated to be completed in mid-August and the new dental expansion should be open for business in October.
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - ­ U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after voting for The Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 6147): “Our budget should focus on bringing about real change rather than creating more red tape for the American people. This legislation ensures taxpayer dollars are not wasted. Specifically, it fully repeals the damaging Obama-era Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, eliminates needless EPA regulation, and supports our small businesses. Additionally, this bill prioritizes life by ensuring taxpayer dollars do not go towards funding abortions. I am proud to support this bill.” FUNDING HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: Interior and Environment Appropriations Reduces funding for the EPA by $100 million to help eliminate needless regulation Targets funding to support infrastructure programs, including safe drinking water and cleanup of Superfunds like the San Jacinto River Waste Pits Fully repeals damaging Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule Supports Payment In lieu of Taxes, which directs funds to local governments in the Eighth District of Texas Provides funding for the National Parks Service to protect our nation’s natural splendor Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Allocates $11.6 billion for the IRS targeted to implement the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act Combats the opioid epidemic by providing $415 million for the Office of National Drug Control Policy, including $280 million for High-Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Enforces sanctions on terrorists and rogue states by providing $161 million for the Treasury Office of Terrorism and Financial Intelligence Includes full funding to support $30 billion in small business loans Protects the sanctity of life by ensuring tax payer dollars do not go towards abortions
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after voting for a resolution stating that a carbon tax would serve to undermine American jobs and increase energy costs in our country: "A carbon tax is a job-killing policy that will stunt our economic growth and increase the cost of living for all Americans. I am proud that the United States has led the world in reducing carbon emissions for ten years without the presence of a carbon tax. I am confident that we can continue to lead without sacrificing affordable energy and middle-class jobs.” CLICK HERE to learn more.
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Just now, President Trump announced Judge Brett Kavanaugh as his pick for Supreme Court Justice. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: President Trump made a very strong choice in Judge Brett Kavanaugh, another qualified conservative voice like Judge Gorsuch, for the Supreme Court. Judge Kavanaugh is a well-respected, pro-life justice that believes in the rule of law and upholding the constitution. President Trump has transformed our courts through his nominations. The impact is generational. I look forward to Kavanaugh's confirmation to our high court soon. NEXT STEP - A series of hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee, which then votes to send the nomination to the full United States Senate. Confirmation by the Senate then allows the President to formally appoint the candidate to the court.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2019, which provides funding for the Department of Defense. This is the fourth of twelve appropriations bill to be passed by the House this Congress. After final passage of the appropriations package, Congressman Brady gave the following statement: “This week, we buckled down and took on Congress’s number one Constitutional responsibility – protecting our nation. This year’s defense appropriations bill takes steps to make sure our troops have the equipment, numbers, and support they need to do their jobs and keep our country safe. Our men and women in uniform deserve the best, and I am proud to support them through this important piece of legislation.” BACKGROUND: Each year, Congress passes a defense appropriations bill, which provides funding for our national defense. Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the FY2019 defense appropriations bill, which provides $674.6 billion in funding to the Department of Defense. This includes: $144 billion for Military Pay and Personnel, which includes a 2.6% pay raise for the troops and an increase in troop numbers for active and reserve forces; $245.9 billion to provide our warfighters the tools and resources they need and includes $1 billion above President Trump’s request to fill readiness shortfalls; $92.4 billion for Research and Development, for projects including the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, space security programs, and nuclear force modernization; $34.4 billion for Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees; and $200 million for the Israeli missile defense cooperative programs
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after voting yes on H.R. 6136 – Border Security and Immigration Reform Act: “I voted to stand with President Trump in his call to fully fund the border wall, end the visa lottery program and fairly resolve the DACA situation. Democrats had the opportunity today to put their money where their mouth is and vote to fix our broken immigration system, while keeping families together at the border. As predicted, Democrats showed their true colors and abandoned the Dreamers they claim to support, proving their rhetoric is nothing but a political ploy.” BACKGROUND H.R. 6136 – Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, sponsored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA): Provides nearly $25 billion in funding to build a wall on the southern border Contains provisions prohibiting the separation of children from confirmed parents or guardians when entering the U.S. Ends the visa lottery Limits chain migration Ends the catch and release program Creates a 6-year renewable legal status program for DACA recipients Creates a merit-based visa program that prioritizes education, employment, military service, and English proficiency
06.27.2018	CONROE, TX - The non-partisan Congressional Management Foundation (CMF) announced their winners of their Lifetime Achievement Award and long-time staffer for Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08), Janet Qureshi, was named one of four finalists. Qureshi has worked with Brady for over two decades and is his Director of Constituent Services. CMF recognizes staffers who have made a significant and positive impact during their career in public service. Caption: Janet and her famous "wall of photos" in the Conroe office. “Proud doesn’t even begin to describe how I feel about Janet,” said Brady upon hearing the news. “Though thousands of staffers work in Congress, Janet is a stand-out due to her tireless dedication to the constituents in the 8th Congressional District of Texas. She has literally helped save lives. Janet has a heart of gold and has been an integral part of my success as a representative. She truly deserves this honor.” CMF noted that news articles and letters to the editor have recognized Qureshi’s outstanding constituent service, citing one example of her efforts to obtain the release of wrongly imprisoned constituent in the Dominican Republic. “I enjoy taking care of people. I love being an advocate for our constituents and I hope to continue to do that,” Qureshi stated. Prior to working for Brady, Qureshi was an operating room nurse and volunteer, and she was honored in 2011 by the Montgomery County Women’s Council of Organizations as a Woman of Distinction. She also works closely with the Lone Survivor Foundation to help veterans who need government assistance. Bradford Fitch, President & CEO of CMF said, “Janet is an amazing public servant, making a real difference in the lives of Representative Brady’s constituents. She is one of the great silent patriots serving our nation.” CLICK HERE or below to hear what folks have to say about Janet. Qureshi will be recognized at the CMF Awards Ceremony on July 13 in Washington, D.C. About the Congressional Management Foundation CMF is a 501(c)(3) nonpartisan nonprofit whose mission is to build trust and effectiveness in Congress. Since 1977 CMF has worked with Congress to identify and disseminate best practices for management, workplace environment, communications, and constituent services. CMF also is the leading researcher and trainer on citizen engagement, educating thousands of individuals and facilitating better relationships with Congress.
06.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the approval of the Texas General Land Office’s (GLO) $5 billion Hurricane Harvey recovery plan. At the time of the announcement, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) said the following: "Many Houston area families and businesses are still struggling to get back to normal after the devastation of Hurricane Harvey. This approval is good news for our communities and I’m grateful to HUD Secretary Carson for his efforts to make this a reality.” BACKGROUND: After Hurricane Harvey struck Texas in August 2017, Congress immediately took action to fund disaster relief and recovery efforts Alongside the Texas Congressional delegation, Rep. Kevin Brady has helped secure more than $146 billion in total funding for 2017 disaster relief, including the recently approved $5 billion HUD recovery plan. Highlights include: Single-Family Homeowner Assistance Program ($1.1 billion): Provides assistance to help homeowners with rehabilitation and reconstruction after Hurricane Harvey. Buyouts and Acquisitions ($275 million): To allow certain eligible homeowners to sell their damaged home to a local government. Affordable Rental ($250 million): Provides funding for rehabilitation, reconstruction and new construction of affordable multi-family rent properties. Homeowner Reimbursement ($100 million): Homeowners may be reimbursed up to $50,000 for certain out-of-pocket expenses incurred for home repairs, including reconstruction, rehabilitation or mitigation. Partial Repair and Essential Power for Sheltering ($73 million): Provides immediate, temporary repairs to homes that sustained less than $17,000 in FEMA-verified loss. CDBG-DR will be used as matching funds to FEMA expenditures. Local Infrastructure ($413 million): Supports infrastructure repairs and enhancements for local communities as part of a comprehensive long-term recovery program along with FEMA funding. Economic Revitalization ($100 million): Offers interim assistance up to $250,000 to small businesses in exchange for job creation or retention. Local, Regional and State Planning ($137 million): The State will fund planning studies on disaster mitigation in the impacted areas to promote sound long-term recovery. Allocations to City of Houston and Harris County ($2.3 billion): The State of Texas will provide approximately $1.1 billion each to the City of Houston and Harris County, allowing these jurisdictions to address their unmet recovery needs. Plans for use of these funds will be submitted by the city and county to the State for approval. State Administration ($251 million): Funding set aside for the State’s program costs, including contract administration, compliance monitoring, the provision of technical assistance to applicants and subrecipients, etc.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - With House passage of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has helped bring about the lowest unemployment rate since December 2000, but even with more jobs being created, many Americans are still sitting on the sidelines. In fact, we’ve moved from asking “Where are the jobs?” to “Where are the workers?” "This bill provides common-sense and proven work requirements as part of eligibility for SNAP benefits, encouraging self-sufficiency. Furthermore, this bill supports our rural communities by strengthening the agriculture safety net for our farmers, ranchers and foresters while also providing significant new investments to broadband infrastructure.” WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PRIORITIES: Gives Americans the opportunity to train for good-paying jobs and end their dependence on the federal government. Requires able-bodied adults on welfare to work, train or volunteer 20 hours per week to receive benefits. Provides fully-funded, guaranteed Employment & Training slots for work-capable adults. Potentially 670,000 work-capable Texans will reenter the workforce. Prioritizes broadband access and infrastructure in struggling rural areas to promote jobs and economic activity. AGRICULTURE PRIORITIES: Helps new farmers and ranchers by enhancing access to credit and establishing a scholarship at 1890 Land Grant institutions. Establishes a new National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program to protect the health of the nation’s livestock. Encourages proper management for healthy and productive Federal, state and private forests. Maintains and improves crop insurance which is critical to the agriculture industry. Prioritizes working-lands conservation through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program. Strengthens the agriculture safety net and provides vital tools for trade promotion and market development. Maintains legal authority to provide assistance to farmers and ranchers affected by unfair foreign trading practices. LIST OF SUPPORTERS: The White House American Farm Bureau National Cattleman’s Beef Association National Grocers Association Public Lands Council Americans for Tax Reform Freedom Works Foundation for Government Accountability American Enterprise Institute Texas Cattle Feeders Association Texas & Southwestern Cattle Raisers Association Texas Farm Bureau Plains Cotton Growers South Texas Cotton & Grain Association Texas Cotton Ginners Association Texas Pork Producers Association Texas Wheat Producers Association Texas Forestry Association Western Peanut Growers Association Texas Grain Sorghum Association Select Milk Producers Texas Corn Producers Association Texas Poultry Federation Texas Wine and Grape Growers Association Texas Association of Dairymen Texas Citrus Mutual Texas International Produce Association Texas Vegetable Association CLICK HERE to learn more about the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018.
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Late last night, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) voted for, and the House passed, legislation to rein in wasteful government spending coming out of Washington. On May 8, President Trump exercised his authority under the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (ICA), and formally requested that Congress cut nearly $15 billion in wasteful spending. After passage of The Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act (H.R. 3), Congressman Brady released the following statement: “Yesterday's vote confirms that Congressional Republicans and President Trump are united in our commitment to cut wasteful spending and restore our fiscal footing. Americans budget and balance their checkbooks every day, and it is time that the federal government do the same. This rescissions package – the largest in history – is the first of many steps in putting our fiscal house back in order. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to follow suit and act quickly on this important legislative package.” BACKGROUND: Rescissions are reductions of funding previously provided in law. Since the President cannot rescind funding on his own, Congress needs to pass new legislation to eliminate this funding. This package is the largest in the history of ICA, and includes rescissions of unspent balances from prior years and reductions to budget authority for mandatory programs. In some cases, this funding has been sitting in agency coffers for years with no plans to spend it. Under the ICA, Congress has 45 days to act on the President’s request. During this period, funding may be formally withheld from obligation so agencies cannot spend it, and any member of Congress may introduce a bill with the President’s rescission proposals. This legislation receives special treatment under House and Senate rules, and cannot be filibustered by the Senate. CLICK HERE to learn more about what is included in the rescissions package. CLICK HERE to read the full text of H.R.3.
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, which invests in America’s waterways and flood prevention efforts through the Army Corps of Engineers. After the bill’s passage, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “Texans know the importance of being proactive and investing in our water resources for the future. We’ve seen enough ‘100 year floods’ to know we need to be prepared. I’m happy to see WRDA pass, as it includes two amendments I helped lead to speed up Army Corps of Engineers flood prevention studies and projects throughout Texas, ensuring we will be ready not if, but when the next storm comes.” BACKGROUND: The Water Resources Development Act of 2018 is the culmination of Congress’ continued efforts to invest in American water infrastructure. Along with funding and authorizations for important flood prevention projects, WRDA invests in ports, waterways, dams, and infrastructure across the country. Highlights of the bill include: $2.5 billion in fully offset funding for critical Army Corps of Engineers infrastructure projects, preparing for the future while maintaining fiscal responsibility; Authorizes projects including navigation, flood damage reduction, shoreline protection, hydropower, dam safety, water supply, recreation, environmental restoration and protection, and disaster response and recovery; Includes two Brady co-sponsored amendments to expedite Army Corps of Engineers flood mitigation studies and in Texas; and Requires added transparency with Army Corps reports on maintenance backlog obligations. CLICK HERE to learn more about WRDA and America’s water infrastructure.
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) is excited to partner with the Bush School of Government and Public Service EMPSA program at Texas A&M on an educational Capstone looking at the Conroe VA Clinic. Capstone is a two-semester required project in which students work collaboratively with a government agency or nonprofit organization to solve a real-world challenge through integrated, team-based, applied research. Led by Dr. Catherine Cole, the Capstone will continue to study issues related to healthcare access, resource allocation, and accountability. "It's really the culmination of the students' educational experience, where they apply what they have learned in the program. Working with Congressman Brady's office has been particularly meaningful,” said Dr. Cole. “Because of Congressman Brady's dedication to the veterans in his constituency, his office was incredibly involved and supportive in the learning process. It's a win-win arrangement! The students win by working on improving veteran health care, and Congressman Brady receives substantive research and analysis to improve the system." Instrumental in bringing this clinic to Conroe, Brady is committed to bringing the best health and mental health care to the veterans of the 8th Congressional District. “These heroes deserve the very best we can offer them and being able to collaborate with the Bush School will help ensure we continue to improve upon the services our veterans receive,” Brady stated. “I hope the experience for the students is life-changing as they see first-hand how their talents and hard work can impact someone’s life.” CLICK HERE to learn more about the EMPSA program.
05.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Thanks to tax reform, Texas utility company, Quadvest, is lowering rates for Texans. In the few months following the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, utility companies in 48 out of 50 states have taken action to pass their federal tax savings on to their customers. This means more than 87 million customers across the country—so far—are set to see lower monthly utility bills. Simon Sequeira, President of Quadvest based in Magnolia, TX, released the following statement: "On behalf of the approximately 30,000 customers Quadvest Utility serves in Southeast Texas, we would like to thank you for your integral part in the development and ultimate passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of FY2017. The passage of this key piece of legislation has allowed Quadvest to proactively reduce our customers' base water and sewer fees by 26% or almost $90 per year/family." - Simon Sequeira, President of Quadvest. This comes on the heel of The Woodlands based utility company, Entergy's announcement to use their $200 million in tax savings to keep customer rates low and invest in new equipment to increase their reliability and affordability. Sallie Rainer, President and CEO of Entergy, released the following statement: "Tax reform provides Entergy Texas an opportunity to continue our investment to improve our service to customers, while minimizing the effect to customer bills," said Sallie Rainer, President and CEO of Entergy Texas. "A lower monthly utility bill is not just "crumbs" as some Washington Democrats would have you believe, it's a big deal for so many families," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. "And if you’re living paycheck-to paycheck, if you’re having a hard time heating or cooling your house - this is real, tangible relief. Tax Reform is working for Texas families and Texas businesses, and the results speak for themselves." BACKGROUND Quadvest is a privately owned water and sewer utility company that is 100% owned by members of the founding family. For 40 years, Quadvest has provided water and wastewater services to approximately 12,000 residential and commercial customers. Currently, Quadvest owns and operates 57 subdivisions throughout Southeast Texas in the following counties: Montgomery, Harris, Katy, Waller, Liberty, Jackson, Brazoria, Fort Bend, Matagorda, and Aransas. CLICK HERE to read full letter of support. Entergy Texas, Inc. provides electricity to approximately 450,000 customers in 27 counties. Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, including nearly 9,000 megawatts of nuclear power. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.9 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of approximately $11 billion and more than 13,000 employees. CLICK HERE to read official press release.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This legislation is passed annually to authorize each branch of the Armed Forces, while improving military readiness, effectiveness, and lethality. After voting to pass the NDAA, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: "My number one constitutional responsibility is ensuring the U.S. military has the resources necessary to protect our nation. This year’s military funding bill helps fulfill President Trump’s promise to Make America Strong Again by providing our troops the training, equipment, and support they need to be ready for any threat. I’m proud to support our men and women in uniform, and I’m proud to vote yes for this critical legislation.” The FY 2019 NDAA includes: Authorizes a total defense budget of $717 billion, which includes supporting our troops and President Trump’s commitment to rebuild our military; Provides for an increase in the size of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Naval and Air Reserve, and the Air Guard; Authorizes a 2.6% pay raise for our troops – the largest in nine years – letting troops focus on their mission instead of having to worry about their family’s financial security; Gives the military the capabilities to confront threats around the world, including those from Iran, Russia, and North Korea; Advances new military technology projects that will change the future of how we fight and win future conflicts. CLICK HERE to learn more. PERMALINK
05.24.2018	CONROE, TX - The U.S. Forest Service announced that repairs on the Stubblefield Bridge, which was seriously damaged by Hurricane Harvey, are set to begin and expected to be completed by December. National Forests and Grasslands in Texas Forest Supervisor Eddie Taylor said that the design and repair will be managed by Central Federal Lands Highway Division. “Stubblefield Bridge is an important roadway not only for the Sam Houston National Forest, but for nearby residents in Walker County who used the bridge daily,” said Taylor. “We want to thank U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady and Walker County officials for their help in getting these repairs expedited.” “This is welcome news for Walker County and everyone who enjoys Sam Houston National Forest,” responded Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08). “We fought hard in Congress to secure disaster relief funding for Hurricane Harvey, and I’m happy to see it go to good use in the Texas Eighth District. Hurricane Harvey affected our community in so many ways, and this is another step to rebuilding bigger and better than we were before. My thanks to Judge Pierce and the Walker County Commissioner’s Court for their hard work, and to the Forest Service for their continued attention to this issue.” BACKGROUND: As Hurricane Harvey made landfall last August, Stubblefield Bridge – located in Sam Houston National Forest – was severely damaged, cutting off local residents and outdoors enthusiasts. After helping secure $146 billion in disaster relief for disasters in 2017, Congressman Brady, in coordination with Walker County officials, advocated for the Forest Service to prioritize the Stubblefield Bridge. ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, rolling back unnecessary red tape created by Dodd-Frank. Already passed by the Senate on March 14, the bill has now been sent to President Trump’s desk for his signature. After voting on passage of the bill, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “For eight long years, Dodd-Frank has forced American businesses, community banks, and credit unions to compete with one hand tied behind their backs hindering economic growth and consumer choice.” "Building off our pro-growth tax reform package, this legislation will help ensure that Main Street continues to see better opportunities, every day. There is more we can do to make sure America is open for business, but today is a great step in the right direction. I applaud Texas’ very own Chairman Hensarling for all of his effort in making this a reality, and I look forward to seeing President Trump sign this legislation into law shortly.” BACKGROUND Following the 2008 financial crisis, President Barack Obama and a Democrat controlled Congress passed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which broadly overhauled financial regulations. Considered to be an over-correction by many economists, Dodd-Frank’s regulations created severe restrictions on Main Street financial institutions that had no role in the financial crisis, which limited small businesses and local consumers’ access to financial services. S. 2155, The Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act reforms many of these regulations to reduce their burdens, while strengthening existing consumer protections to prevent a crisis similar to 2008’s ‘Great Recession.’ Reforms made by S. 2155 include: - Improving certain mortgage lending rules to allow for better access to home-loans, allowing more Americans to pursue their dreams of home-ownership; - Providing regulatory relief to community banks, which will help ensure local businesses and entrepreneurs have access to the credit they need to ensure their businesses succeed; - Enhancing consumer protections, such as requiring credit reporting agencies like Equifax to provide fraud alerts allow consumers to place security freezes on their credit reports; - Focusing regulations on the biggest banks and institutions that run the largest risk of creating another financial crisis, rather than those that had nothing to do with the 2008 crisis, and; - Providing relief to certain securities regulations to ensure entrepreneurs, startups, and small businesses have the ability to raise capital to invest in their businesses. CLICK HERE to learn more about S. 2155. PERMALINK
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) and his colleagues in the House of Representatives passed fourteen pieces of legislation designed to assist and honor America’s veterans. Following passage, Congressman Brady released the following statement: "This is a big week for the men and women who have sacrificed so much for our country. From day one, President Trump and Congress have been united in our efforts to improve the VA, provide veterans the resources and support they need, and make sure their service is repaid in kind. Each of these bills was passed overwhelmingly, and we have now passed over 60 pieces of legislation impacting our veterans in this session of Congress." "The Eighth District of Texas is home to many of our nation’s finest, and I am proud to support each of these bills in their honor. I applaud President Trump and House Veterans’ Affairs Chairman Phil Roe for working so hard for the men and women who selflessly served our nation." BACKGROUND On May 21, the U.S. House of Representatives passed fourteen bills. These bills address a wide variety of issues facing America’s veterans, including providing them a Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA), preventing opioid addiction, and improving access for veteran victims of sexual abuse. Each of these bills was passed with overwhelming bipartisan support. The full list of bills includes: H.R. 1972 – VA Billing Accountability Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Lloyd Smucker / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 3642 – Military SAVE Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Andy Barr / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 3832 – Veterans Opioid Abuse Prevention Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Neal Dunn / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 3946 – To name the Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Statesboro, Georgia, the “Ray Hendrix Veterans Clinic” (Sponsored by Rep. Rick Allen / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 4245 – Veterans’ Electronic Health Record Modernization Oversight Act of 2017 (Sponsored by Rep. Tim Walz / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 4830 – SIT-REP Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Gus Bilirakis / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 4958 – Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2018 (Sponsored by Rep. Mike Bost / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 5044 – Service-Disabled Veterans Small Business Continuation Act (Sponsored by Rep. Steve Chabot / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 5215 – Veterans Affairs Purchase Card Misuse Mitigation Act (Sponsored by Rep. Jack Bergman / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 5418 – Veterans Affairs Medical-Surgical Purchasing Stabilization Act, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Jack Bergman / Veterans Affairs Committee) S. 1282 – To re-designate certain clinics of the Department of Veterans Affairs located in Montana (Sponsored by Sen. Steve Daines / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 4334 – Improving Oversight of Women Veterans’ Care Act of 2017 (Sponsored by Rep. Lou Correa / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 3663 – To designate the medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Huntington, West Virginia, as the Hershel “Woody” Williams VA Medical Center (Sponsored by Rep. Evan Jenkins / Veterans Affairs Committee) H.R. 4451 – Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act of 2018, as amended (Sponsored by Rep. Brad Wenstrup / Veterans Affairs Committee) CLICK HERE to learn more. PERMALINK
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, joined Brian Kilmeade on Fox News Radio’s “The Brian Kilmeade Show” to discuss the economy, tax reform, and the need to get Americans off of the sidelines and back into the workforce. On jobs coming back home and Main Street businesses growing: “Bottom line is: It’s a good thing. First, now because of our new tax code, companies are bringing their earnings back from overseas and investing them here in America. Secondly, you know, most of them are buying new equipment, expanding facilities, increasing wages and paychecks… all great things. But when they look at the environment and say ‘look, we’re not sure we see an investment to do right now’ it goes back to the stockholders – and, who are those? The American people. Mostly, in their retirement plans.” “And last week, Brian, you probably noticed on Monday, the National Federation of Independent Business… did a survey and what they announced was earnings are at the highest level for our Main Street local mom-and-pops in 45 years. Six out of 10 of them are hiring workers right now, and now they’re reversing the Obama economics where more businesses went out of business than started. Well, already, in just the 4th month of tax reform we’re reversing that. More small businesses [are being] … created rather than leaving.” “Look, there’s going to be a stark choice… Do you want to go back to the bad ol’ days where Washington leeches more of what you earn so they can spend more… or we chose you. As Republicans we believe you know best how to spend your money and get this economy going. So, it’s going to be a very stark contrast.” On tax reform 2.0: “We’re doing the same kind of ground work we did for the original tax reform… listening to our Members of Congress, they’re listening back home. Bottom line is we want to change the culture up here. We want to never be complacent and we know China, Germany, Europe, Mexico, Canada – look, they’re not taking what we did standing still.” “We’re looking at making the family cuts permanent and the small business tax cuts permanent as well. We think certainty matters. We’re also looking at how we become more competitive and innovative.” “Every day we should be asking how do we make our tax code more family-friendly, how do we help people stretch their dollars back home… One of them is we can do more to help families save earlier in life and more. We also think we can do more to help employers help students with their student loans when they come out because right now they’re saddled with just huge numbers and it frightens every family. We want you to have the first claim over your work. Not Washington.” On the Committee’s work to get Americans off of the sidelines and into the workforce: “States have really moved away from helping people get to work and they’re filling their budget holes with this. This is all going to be about jobs. So, we’re re-vamping the whole program insisting that no one be left on the sidelines, that we help men and women on welfare move back into the workforce and in the future, we’re not going to measure this by ‘did you get a temporary job’.” “We have one measurement: Did we help someone get a job and keep a job going forward. Because we have a new tax code, the economy is roaring back – every business I talk to is looking for workers. Yet, we have millions on the sidelines in welfare that are trapped there. So, we’re determined frankly to help them get back on their feet.” “There is such an importance for a child to see their parent go to work each day and there is something bigger than any program in watching that happen. Our government right now… rewards people for not going to work or more importantly punishes them if they do.” “We’re determined to get the incentives right. To stop trapping people, in fact, convincing them and incentivizing states to make sure everybody is moving towards a job.”
05.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas, helped secure funding for local counties and schools in the recently-passed funding bill for the federal government. The funds announced by the U.S. Forest Service are included under the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program that Brady has championed in Congress. Brady released the following statement: “The recent omnibus spending bill that I supported included two years of forest-related funding that is crucial for our rural counties and schools. While I’m pleased with these short-term dollars, they are decreasing each year so we need Congress to deliver a permanent solution that allows our federal forests to be managed in an environmentally and economically smart way for the long term.” Among the approximately $2.2 million that Texas received in funding for the 2017 federal budget year, is: Houston County: $371,085.70 Montgomery County: $50,729.07 San Jacinto County: $208,331.49 Trinity County: $344,905.24 Walker County: $283,013.86 Brady’s congressional district received more than $1.2 million. CLICK HERE to learn more about the SRS payments for FY17. PERMALINK
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) today announced that Gracie Evers, a junior from New Caney ISD, is the winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the 8th Congressional District of Texas. Her piece "The Anthem" will be showcased in the United States Capitol for a full year with other art competition winners from across the country. “Each year I look forward to the Congressional Art Competition. It’s an amazing opportunity for gifted high school artists of the 8th District to display their talents to the nation and bring a little piece of home to the Capitol,” said Brady. And a big thank you to all the young artists who submitted their works. With so much creativity represented, it was difficult for our judges to choose a single winner." Winning Piece: "The Anthem" "Gracie's piece stood out to be because it captures the spirit of the Lone Star State so well and I look forward to educating my colleagues on what her piece represents," Brady continued. "Her work will look great in the hallways of the United States Capitol where millions of visitors will now be able to view her work.” Our six local community judges holding up their top three nominations. Second place piece (right) was submitted by Micah Skonberg from Oak Ridge North High School, and third runner up piece (left) was submitted by Kissa Hussain from Porter High School. This year, our panel of judges were comprised of members of The Woodlands Arts Council (TWAC), local artists in the community, and art teachers (left to right in photo above): Chloe Snow: TWAC Cultural & Education Outreach Coordinator Amber Royall: Art Teacher at Knox Jr. High Sue Burke-Harrington: TWAC Board Member / Artist Alex Bunch: TWAC Board Member / Artist Kim Lacayo: TWAC Board Member / Artist Brandi Prater: Art Teacher at Knox Jr. High BACKGROUND: Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. PERMALINK
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after President Trump announced his intention to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal and restore sanctions against Iranian oil exports: "President Trump is right to withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Deal. From day one, I have said that this naïve, dangerous deal threatens Israel and ensures Iran – the number one state sponsor of terror – has a path to a nuclear arsenal. President Obama chose to go it alone when it became clear that neither the House nor Senate would approve this flawed pact, which Iran has violated from the very start." CLICK HERE to learn more about President Trump's announcement to withdraw from the 2015 nuclear agreement with the Iranian regime. PERMALINK
05.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Everyone knows the IRS needs to be reformed from top to bottom. From absurd wait times when calling the IRS, to property seizure abuse, this is an agency that desperately needs to be reined in and restructured to actually serve American taxpayers. Last week Congressman Brady took to local airwaves to talk about the bipartisan package of nine bills passed by the House of Representatives that advances a modern vision for the IRS and ensures that taxpayers are treated fairly, their disputes are handled objectively, and issues are resolved quickly and affordably. Check out highlights below: "We rein in abuses of the IRS, create a new independent office for appeals so we get our disputes heard fairly, and restructure the IRS into a taxpayer first IRS, focused on customer service, and not just on enforcement." - Congressman Kevin Brady "You didn't hear about it [bills passed] on the news because both Republicans and Democrats worked for several years to do this together." - Congressman Kevin Brady CLICK HERE or below to watch Fox26 Houston News interview. "It was exciting to see the interest in the employees and how we are wanting to redesign that agency into a tax payer first agency by reining in the abuses and really making them accountable to taxpayers. That's passed the House now with almost unanimous support so we're hopeful the Senate can get it to the President's desk." - Congressman Kevin Brady CLICK HERE or below to watch KBTX feature. With this package of bills, the House has taken the biggest and boldest step in 20 years to redesign this agency into a place with one singular mission: taxpayer service. CLICK HERE to learn more about the "Taxpayer First" IRS Reform Package. PERMALINK
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday and today, the House passed multiple bills to redesign the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the first time in over two decades. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement: "A new tax code calls for a new tax administrator, and we have worked together so that the IRS can be transformed into an agency with a singular mission: 'taxpayer first.' With this package, we are taking a monumental step in redesigning the IRS for first time in 20 years, refocusing the agency to live up to its mission of quality service, and reining in its enforcement powers to prevent future abuse. "These bipartisan bills are the result of nearly a dozen hearings and roundtables, countless briefings and meetings, and close work with stakeholders over the course of the last two years. I want to thank all of our Members for their tireless work on these bills. Their leadership and dedication has been instrumental in passing these pieces of legislation and I hope the Senate considers these measures soon." CLICK HERE to learn more about bills relating to IRS redesign. READ: Brady's op-ed on in the Houston Chronicle on a new IRS. PERMALINK
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today is Tax Day. Today is the last time you, your family, and your business will have to file taxes under the 32-year-old complicated tax code. Starting next year, you will be able to file under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which means more money in your pocket – all without the frustration and confusion of our current tax code. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) joined House Republican Leadership at a weekly press briefing to discuss Tax Day and the need for a new IRS. Excerpts from Brady Remarks: “Tax Day is the worst day of the year for most Americans. Tax week is the worst week – everyone in my house is in a bad mood during tax week. And for good reason – the tax code we’ve got today. It is complicated, it’s unfair, it’s just wrong. And the good news is today is the last time Americans will have to file their taxes under that old, broken, complicated tax code. “Going forward, Americans are going to be able to keep more of what they earn – especially for those two-parent households, for that single mom fighting for the future of her daughter, for that mom-and-pop spending countless hours working through the weekends, risking everything to make their small business a success – they all win under this new tax code. And clearly America’s back – America’s back in a big way. We’re no longer chasing the world. Now, the world is chasing us and we’re seeing those hundreds of billions of dollars come back from overseas to be invested here in America – in our communities, in our economies, in our jobs, and in our retirement system. “And starting next year, nearly 9 out of 10 Americans will be able to file their taxes using a simple postcard-style system – so they have more time to spend with their family and less time trying to collect their receipts and keep all of the complicated forms that are required to address the old tax code that we’re filing under today. “Final point: Congress this week, the House this week, will undertake the first major reform of the IRS in more than two decades. A new tax code really demands a new tax collector – and, Republicans and Democrats together, are launching reforms that create a ‘Taxpayer First’ IRS. “Our goal is to redesign, refocus, and rein in the IRS. Redesign the IRS by insisting they bring back to Congress a comprehensive restructuring of the organization to focus on customer service. Making sure there’s truly an independent appeals process that puts taxpayers on the same level as the IRS so disputes can be handled more affordably, more fairly, and more quickly. And insisting that the IRS do far more to modernize to protect personal taxpayer information – something that frankly, today, they fail at in a major way." CLICK HERE to watch leadership press conference. So while you are trudging through this year's tax filing season with the old tax code, have hope that things are looking up for next year. Have hope because we finally have a tax code that puts your family first and lays the foundation for a new era of American prosperity. PERMALINK
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after the House failed to approve H.J.Res.2 – Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States: “One thing has been clear for years: Washington does not have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem. Raising taxes on hardworking Americans as Democrats are seeking to do is not going to solve our out-of-control debt—a Balanced Budget Amendment, on the other hand, would have been an important first step to addressing our nation’s fiscal nightmare. It's unfortunate that our Democrat colleagues were not willing to join us in moving this amendment forward. “With tax reform, we now have an engine to ignite this economy. In fact, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that the law will create 1.1 million jobs, grow wages by $1.2 trillion, and spur investments of more than $600 billion in the U.S. But even this enhanced growth will not be enough to restrain rapidly rising government spending and associated deficits. Despite this evening's vote, now is the time for Republicans and Democrats to come to the table, just like any family or business does regularly, and have an honest and productive conversation about our spending. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to take action soon.”
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) has been honored with the "Award for Conservative Achievement" from the American Conservative Union (ACU), the nation's original grassroots conservative organization. The award salutes conservative leadership and reflects Congressman Brady's work in Congress to uphold conservative principles. "Chairman Brady deserves great credit leading the effort to pass tax reform through Congress. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the most far-reaching corporate tax reform in a generation and Chairman Brady can take pride in the fact that his leadership will make America more competitive globally, which means better jobs and more economic opportunities for Texans. The ACU is proud of the Chairman’s record and Chairman Brady should be proud of his 2017 Congressional voting record.” - Matt Schlapp, ACU Chairman "The awards and scorecards in Washington are many, but this honor from the American Conservative Union is significant to me because it confirms that actions speak louder than words," said Kevin Brady, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means. "And with conservative pro-growth policies coming out of Congress and The White House, and an economy that's humming because of the President's tax cuts, Texans and American families and workers are seeing results. I am proud to accept this award and grateful to be recognized by such a respected organization as the ACU." BACKGROUND: Since 1971, ACU's Congressional Ratings have become the gold standard in holding every member of Congress accountable for their voting record by scoring some of the most important issues facing our nation. This year, ratings were based off how members voted on major conservative legislative priorities such as; passing historic tax reform legislation, repealing Obamacare, and defunding Planned Parenthood. The American Conservative Union is best known for founding and hosting the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) outside of Washington D.C. The American Conservative Union (ACU) is the nation's original conservative organization. For more than fifty years, ACU has served as an umbrella organization harnessing the collective strength of conservative organizations fighting for Americans who are concerned with liberty, personal responsibility, traditional values, and strong national defense. PERMALINK
03.27.2018	THE WOODLANDS, TX - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) visited local olive oil bar, The Oilerie in The Woodlands. Brady met with store owners, Greg and Jo Anna Zachary, to hear first-hand how tax reform positively impacted their business. CLICK HERE or below to watch video. “Because of tax reform, we are now going to be able to hire more people and expand faster into the Houston market. The increased confidence people have in the economy is really increasing our sales. This quarter has been phenomenal for us; we have been increasing our sales each quarter more and more since January thanks to the tax cuts. There is no doubt about it, [tax reform] has been phenomenal for us.” - Greg Zachary, Owner of The Oilerie (The Woodlands, TX) “Small businesses like The Oilerie are the lifeblood of our economy. The hard work it takes to start, run, and expand a business is what tax reform is all about.” - Congressman Kevin Brady PERMALINK
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Today, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce honored Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of Brady's support for pro-growth policies in the first session of the 115th Congress. “It’s a good time to be doing business in America, thanks to a slate of legislative accomplishments that laid the groundwork for more economic growth and job creation,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “These efforts to advance commonsense, growth-oriented legislation will help Main Street American businesses thrive. We commend Congressman Brady for his commitment to promoting and protecting American free enterprise and economic prosperity.” “With pro-growth policies coming out of Congress and The White House, and an economy that’s humming because of the President’s tax cuts, American businesses, families, and workers are reaping the benefits,” said Kevin Brady, Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means. “Helping local businesses achieve their goals for the betterment of the whole community is in my blood, and I’m proud to accept this award and to continue to work on their behalf.” BACKGROUND: The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber’s How They Voted scorecard. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award. This is the 30th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. During the first session of the 115th Congress, the Chamber scored members on seven Senate votes, including those on tax reform legislation and the confirmation of Supreme Court Associate Justice Neil Gorsuch; and 14 House votes, including votes on tax reform legislation, access to Medicare, and lawsuit abuse. Various votes in support of small business were also scored. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. PERMALINK
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement in response to the announcement of Rex Tillerson's departure as Secretary of State: “We can all be proud of Rex Tillerson and his steady, thoughtful leadership as Secretary of State. A native of Huntsville, Texas, in my congressional district, he represents our country with the diplomacy and strength of a true Texan and a great American. His service is so appreciated and I wish him and his wife, Renda, all the best. Mike Pompeo is a former House colleague who has worked tirelessly as CIA Director to keep our country safe and secure. I am confident he will continue the good work of Secretary Tillerson and serve our country with honor and distinction.” PERMALINK
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The benefits of tax reform can be seen from coast to coast with over 400 companies providing bonuses, raises, or other positive investments into their workers. More importantly, Texas is experiencing economic growth, from small businesses like female-owned engineering company, Leak Sealers, to larger companies like AT&T and Exxon Mobil. “Texas is a big winner because of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. It will create 81,000 new good paying jobs in our state alone….This historic tax reform is making a real difference for our families and for our workers.” - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady Here's what a few Texas companies have said after tax reform was passed: Happy State Bank (Happy, TX): "Our board is really excited to pass a major portion of our bank's tax benefit over to our employees. For many of our employees, the raise will be life-changing." - J. Pat Hickman, Chairman and CEO Group 1 Automotive (Houston, TX): "We decided the best investment we could make was in the people serving as the face of our company every day…These people are the heart of the Company." - Earl J. Hesterberg, President and CEO Leak Sealers (Beaumont, TX): "We've been incredibly successful, and I've never seen anything like it, the way business has been roaring…We're appreciative and we want to share it with our employees." - Henry Adams, CEO Camp Construction Services (Houston, TX): "Because of the reduction in Corporate taxes we, as will all businesses, benefit from this tax cut. We believe that YOU are the reason for our success. And now that we will be giving less of our hard earned income to the federal government, we can share some of it with you." Rush Enterprises, Inc. (Houston, TX): "We believe tax reform to be beneficial for Rush Enterprises, our communities and overall economic growth…We are happy to take this step to invest in our employees and honor their important contributions to our company with this $1,000 gift" - W.M. "Rusty" Rush, Chairman, CEO, and President Exxon Mobil (Irving, TX): "These investments are underpinned by the unique strengths of our company and enhanced by the historic tax reform recently signed into law…These positive developments will mean more jobs and economic expansion across the United States in a myriad of industries." – Darren Woods, Chairman and CEO And these benefits are just the beginning. With this new tax code, Texans and others across our great nation will continue to see more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks. For more on pro-growth, pro-family tax reform, visit FairandSimple.gop. PERMALINK
02.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) recently announced they will extend the comment period to March 9th, 2018 - an additional 17 days - for the Dallas to Houston High-Speed Rail Draft Environmental Impact Statement. This announcement follows Congressman Brady’s official request to the FRA to extend the comment period. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement: While an additional seventeen days is helpful, this is the first High Speed Rail project in Texas and a thorough comment period is necessary. That’s why I asked the Federal Railroad Administration for an additional forty-five days in order to give citizens and local officials more time to respond to this project. My staff and I remain committed to ensuring that Texas Central Rail (TCR) does not complete their proposed project between Houston and Dallas against the wishes of a majority of the residents of Grimes, Madison, and Leon Counties. Official Press Release from DallasHoustonHSR: February 23, 2018 Comment Period Extension and Additional Public Hearing for the Dallas - Houston High-Speed Rail Draft Environmental Impact Statement In response to stakeholder requests, the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) is extending the comment period for the Dallas to Houston High-Speed Rail Draft Environmental Impact Statement. FRA is extending the comment period for an additional 17 days, from February 20, 2018, to March 9, 2018. Comment Submission: Submit comments to Kevin Wright, Environmental Protection Specialist, Federal Railroad Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE MS-20, Washington, D.C. 20590. Comments can also be submitted online at www.fra.dot.gov/Page/P0700 or via email to DallasHoustonHSR@urs.com. Additional Public Hearing: Comments may also be provided orally or in writing at the public hearing scheduled on March 5, 2018 at the time and location listed below. Before the public hearing presentation begins, an open house will be held to allow for comments, questions and review of project exhibits. FRA and Texas Central High Speed Railway (TCRR) staff will be available to answer questions at that time. The public hearing presentation will begin at 6 pm, followed by a public comment period. - Monday, March 5, 2018, 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Sheraton Houston Brookhollow Hotel, 3000 North Loop West, Houston, TX 77092 Draft EIS: The Draft Environmental Impact Statement is available on the FRA project website (https://www.fra.dot.gov/Page/P0700) and at the locations listed on the website. For additional information: Contact Kevin Wright, Environmental Protection Specialist, at the address shown above or by telephone: 202-493-0845 or email: kevin.wright@dot.gov. PERMALINK
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) strongly supported passage of a two-year federal budget that makes a massive leap in rebuilding America’s armed forces while delivering almost $90 billion in disaster relief for Texas and all American families and communities hard hit by Hurricane Harvey and other major disasters in 2017. The bill includes more tax cuts, crucial help to eliminate the backlog of veterans cases, and funding for community health centers. The bill also slashed an ObamaCare slush fund and permanently repealed the unpopular Independent Payment Advisory Board—the board established by President Obama to ration healthcare for seniors by giving unelected bureaucrats the power to withhold Medicare payments to local doctors and other healthcare providers. Congressman Brady released the following statement after President Trump Signed The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 into law: “This bill has good parts and bad, but in times like this you either stand with President Trump and our U.S. military or you don’t. I chose to vote ‘yes’ to rebuild America’s depleted military at a time when the world is more dangerous than ever. And every opportunity I get to fund our veterans, repeal key ObamaCare provisions and deliver crucial Harvey disaster assistance to my families, which this bill does, my obligation is to support it. "As a conservative I don’t like the extra spending either. Here’s one way to cut spending: I strongly urge the Senate to immediately vote on the House-passed bill that puts Medicaid on a budget and saves over $800 billion – that will reduce the deficit for decades to come.” BACKGROUND: The agreement funds the government at current levels through March 23, 2018. In addition, the legislation delivers on key Republican priorities such as: 1. It Provides Long-Delayed Disaster Relief Resources Including: FEMA disaster relief funding, which provides direct housing assistance, home repairs and public assistance grants to assist with repairs of roads, utility work, school and public buildings; U.S. Army Corps of Engineers funding for high-priority studies for risk reduction from future floods and hurricanes, constructions of those projects and dredging of federal navigation projects; and Department of Housing and Urban Development funding to repair homes, support small businesses and rebuild infrastructure while mitigating future flood damage. The agreement also includes a one-year extension of critical tax provisions championed by Congressman Brady that helps communities by creating a deduction for personal casualty losses and eliminating its 10% threshold requirement, granting penalty-free access to retirement funds, and encouraging charitable giving from Americans across the country. 2. It Rebuilds our Military: This agreement delivers on the promise to fully fund the military at the levels in this year's National Defense Authorization Act, as requested by Defense Secretary James Mattis. This legislation includes critical funding for mission readiness, missile defense, securing space, protecting Israel and a much needed pay raise. In 2017, we lost 80 service member lives due to accidents and training incidents -- nearly four times as many lives killed in combat. With better training and equipment, these deaths could have been prevented. By passing legislation, we will help bring our military into the 21st century and save lives. 3. It Includes Meaningful Healthcare Provisions and Repeals Parts of ObamaCare: The agreement ensures children have healthcare by extending the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for a total of 10 years. Funds Community Health Centers (CHCs), which provide needed medical services to medically underserved and rural areas. CHCs play an integral part in patient care by providing both preventative services and continuity of care for patients. Funding for these facilities maintains their infrastructure, employment, and abilities to fully serve the community. This legislation extends funding for Community Health Centers by an additional two years with FY18 funding at $3.8 billion and FY19 at $4 billion. It cuts spending from an Obamacare slush fund called the Prevention and Public Health Fund. In addition, the bill repeals the infamous Independent Payment Advisory Board from Obamacare, better known as IPAB. Importantly, the bill also address Medicare, by further means-testing premiums in Medicare Parts B and D for high-income seniors. This is the kind of common-sense structural reform that advances long-held Republican principles to save and strengthen Medicare for the long haul. PERMALINK
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is excited to welcome Shana Teehan as his Senior Advisor and Director of Communications. Shana brings a wealth of institutional knowledge and over a decade of communication experience to Team Brady. She comes from the office of Senator Luther Strange (R-AL) where she served as Communications Director. Shana began her career on Capitol Hill as Congressman Brady’s Press Secretary and then served as Communications Director to Texas Congressman Will Hurd (TX-23). In her early career, Shana served as Communications Director for the Alabama Republican Party and was a communications consultant for political candidates and conservative causes and personalities. Shana’s predecessor, Tracee Evans, who was a member of Congressman Kevin Brady’s staff for ten years gave a fond farewell: “To serve the Eighth Congressional District of Texas over the past decade has been a privilege and so much more. Working alongside Congressman Brady and this amazing team has been an honor, a blessing and some of the most informative years of my life. As I embark on a different path of service, I do so knowing Congressman Brady and this team will continue to exceed expectations and blaze new trails of servant leadership. A piece of my heart will always be with them.” Congressman Brady released the following statement: “I am grateful for Tracee’s unwavering dedication and years of public service to our community. She played a crucial role in helping to shape the communication strategy and keeping the local community informed of the first overhaul of the federal tax code since 1986. I wish her the best of luck in her future endeavors. "My entire team is so excited to welcome back one of their own. Shana knows Texas and she knows this community. I am confident she will have a seamless transition and bring much added value to the team and our entire community. "Welcome back Shana, we’re so glad you’re here.” PERMALINK
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday several members of the Texas delegation wrote a letter to Senate leadership urging quick action on a third emergency supplemental spending bill to provide critical relief to impacted areas and the people who have been living in temporary shelter in the State of Texas since Hurricane Harvey made landfall last August. The House has acted to provide critical funds for Texas and the other states and territories damaged by the devastating hurricane season of 2017. The Senate must do so as well. A joint statement from Reps. Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Randy Weber, Filemon Vela, Brian Babin, Gene Green, Blake Farenthold, Al Green, John Culberson, Michael McCaul, Ted Poe & Kevin Brady is below: “The House has acted to provide critical funds to continue the recovery process for the states and territories that were devastated by the vicious hurricane season last year. Yet, the Senate has failed to take the critical steps needed to keep the promise made by our government in August when the State of Texas was under water due to Hurricane Harvey. We have waited for the Senate to act, but our constituents cannot wait any longer.” TEXT OF JOINT LETTER: Dear Majority Leader McConnell and Minority Leader Schumer, As you know, last August the State of Texas was hit by Hurricane Harvey - one of the worst natural disasters in the history of the United States. The devastation wrought on the Texas Gulf Coast and the greater Houston area not only took the lives of 88 Texans, but also caused an estimated $125 billion or more in damage to the areas we represent. In the wake of this tragedy, Congress has passed two small emergency supplemental spending bills designed to begin the recovery process with a promise of a larger package to help not only Texas, but other states and territories equally ravaged by a damaging hurricane season. As promised, the House of Representatives did its part and passed a third emergency supplemental, aimed at providing additional relief for areas impacted by the 2017 hurricane season and the wildfires in California. This bill was sent to the Senate for consideration in December. We are now entering February with no action by the U.S. Senate. We write asking for prompt consideration of this third supplemental. We have constituents who after almost six months, remain in transitional housing and homes that lack weatherization as Texas remains in the grip of an unusually cold winter. It is past time for Congress to act. It is also important to note that while Hurricane Harvey was the worst offender; the region has faced catastrophic flooding for three years in a row. We cannot continue to wait to begin work on critical flood control projects that will protect not only the residents who live in this region, but the taxpayers who pay for costly disaster recovery that can be avoided in the future if we invest in needed infrastructure now. We represent not only one of the most populous regions of the nation, but also the energy capital for America. The region is further home to the largest tonnage port in America and Strategic Ports of Embarkation for key military units. The failure to adequately fund resiliency and reconstruction along the Texas Gulf Coast and the greater Houston area not only puts the lives of our constituents at risk, but also jeopardizes both our energy and national security. We understand that the Senate has been consumed of late with issues of national importance. However, this third supplemental is a non-partisan matter and critical to the lives and livelihoods of our constituents and the nation at large. Therefore, we thank you in advance for moving to pass this supplemental and continuing the necessary work of responding to the 2017 storm season. Very respectfully, Reps. Pete Olson, Sheila Jackson Lee, Randy Weber, Filemon Vela, Brian Babin, Gene Green, Blake Farenthold , Al Green, John Culberson, Michael McCaul, Ted Poe, Kevin Brady Cc: The Honorable Paul D. Ryan, Speaker of the House of Representatives Cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader of the House of Representatives
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement ahead of President Trump’s State of the Union Address: "A year ago, President Trump laid out his vision to renew the American spirit and Make America Great Again. Wages are increasing—jobs are coming back to America—ISIS is on the run—and our military and economy no longer have one arm tied behind their back. American optimism and confidence in our future is on the rise and the benefits of tax reform have only just begun. This has been an incredible year for President Trump. Of course, we have more work to do. It is vital that we work together to address the issues that are facing our country—especially those that directly impact Texans—such as immigration, infrastructure, trade, and much needed Hurricane Harvey relief. I look forward to working with President Trump and my colleagues this year to build a safe, strong, and proud America." Brady's Guest of Honor (pictured below): Great philanthropist and founder of Gallery Furniture, Jim "Mattress Mack" McIngvale. PERMALINK
01.29.2018	President Trump will deliver his first State of the Union Speech this week. My guest is Jim “Mac” McInvale, a successful businessman, founder of Gallery Furniture and world-class philanthropist who embodies the American Dream. President Trump’s first year has energized the sluggish U.S. economy he inherited by balancing regulation and enacting the first tax reform bill in 31 years—which I’m proud to have authored. In just one month since the tax cuts were signed into law, more than 250 American businesses have announced pay raises, bonuses, expanded maternity and paternity leave, and increased 401(k) contributions. Some have already announced major new investments here in the U.S. exceeding 30,000 new jobs, and others have reversed their decision to move their company overseas—now they are staying here in America. These daily reports underscore the steady progress our economy is making under President Trump’s leadership and the Republican-led Congress. With a new tax code built for growth, I’m confident our economy will continue to improve. In fact, the next boost is just around the corner. * * * In the coming days, Texans and all American workers will begin to receive their first paycheck since the Tax Cut and Jobs Act went into effect. Under the new law—which lowers rates for Americans at all income levels and nearly doubles the standard deduction—the federal government will take less of your paycheck for income taxes. For a family of 4 living in Conroe or The Woodlands making $92,113 that could be as much as $2,632 in 2018—that’s a big deal! Letting hard-working taxpayers keep more of their income is just one of the many ways the new tax cuts bill is improving lives in our nation—and it’s only the beginning. As each new part of the tax law takes effect, families will see more of the benefits. That means a stronger economy with more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for Texans and taxpayers nationwide. * * * I’m relieved Senator Schumer and Congressional Democrats reversed course and joined Republicans to reopen the government. What a needless shutdown—and for what? An unrelated agreement on immigration with a deadline weeks from now? The shutdown hurt our troops, delayed crucial Harvey disaster aid, and risked children’s health insurance for more than 400,000 Texas children and pregnant mothers. With tens of thousands of Texas victims of Hurricane Harvey waiting for assistance, Senate Democrats, led by Schumer, are still refusing to approve the $81 billion disaster relief bill passed by the GOP House last year. Regardless of where you stand on illegal immigration and DACA—is it reasonable to shut down the government over it or hold crucial Harvey disaster aid hostage? Regrettably, too many Democrats in Congress have their priorities wrong. Instead, they should be working with Republicans and the President in a bi-partisan way to find common solutions. * * * After reading the classified memo on the political abuse of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act I am calling for its release to the public. The memo is disturbing and raises serious concerns. A full, thorough investigation into possible privacy, procedural and criminal violations is needed. This is not how FISA should work. ### U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady chairs the House Ways and Means Committee PERMALINK
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after the House passed major pro-life legislation, Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: As tens of thousands of Americans march in D.C. today to celebrate the sanctity of life, the House took action to protect human life. Whether you’re pro-choice or strongly pro-life as I am, we can all find common ground in that any baby born alive should have immediate, emergency healthcare. I am proud to support meaningful legislation that advances pro-life and pro-family protections. BACKGROUND: The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 4712), introduced by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (TN-07), provides greater protections for born-alive infants. The legislation requires health practitioners to exercise the same standard of care as if the child was born alive at the same gestational age and holds medical providers accountable by subjecting violators of the bill to a criminal fine, up to five years in prison, or both. A provider who commits an overt act that kills a child born alive will be charged with murder. CLICK HERE to learn more. PERMALINK
01.16.2018	Despite what the pundits and many naysayers in the media and Congress said, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is doing exactly what we promised. Since President Trump signed the bill into law, there has been daily news of businesses increasing wages, delivering bonuses, extending maternity and paternity leave, increasing 401(k) contributions and making major investments at home. To date, more than 160 American companies have announced more than $1.6 billion in new investments in the United States. Many utility companies have announced reduced rates, and the Treasury Department recently confirmed that 9 out of 10 taxpayers will see a boost in their take-home pay as soon as next month. As House Ways and Means Committee Chairman, and lead author of the bill, my goals were simple: cut taxes for the middle-class, simplify our unfair and broken tax code and make America the most competitive place in the world to do business. The hardworking American people now have a tax code that allows them to keep more of their money to use as they see fit not how Washington sees fit. This is only the beginning. As each new part of the law takes effect, and America becomes more competitive, families will see even more of the benefits with a stronger economy, more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for Texans and hardworking taxpayers nationwide. *** As Congress kicks off 2018 we have a Constitutional responsibility to address one crucial priority: our national defense. For too many years we have asked our military to do more with less. Today only five of 58 Army Brigade Teams are combat ready for immediate action, our Navy is the smallest it has been since World War I, and the average Air Force aircraft is 27 years old. Facing threats like North Korea’s nuclear threat and Iran’s continued action to destabilize the Middle East, we must ensure our troops are fully prepared to respond to any situation. We owe our men and women in uniform the best, and I am dedicated to making sure they get it. *** Immigration and border security remain at the forefront of the conversation here at home and in Washington D.C. I opposed President Obama’s power-grab in 2012 when he first ordered Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or DACA. President Trump is right to insist on the rule of law—our Constitution dictates that Congress, not the president, should write our laws. I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress—and President Trump—to secure our borders and find a fair solution for DACA. However, I do not support citizenship for anyone who comes to America through the back door of illegal immigration. Citizenship is earned by those who come through the front door of legal immigration. ### U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady chairs the House Ways and Means Committee PERMALINK
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is excited to welcome lifetime resident of Montgomery County and proud Texas A&M Aggie, Heather Washburn, as his new District Director. Heather brings a wealth of political knowledge and over a decade of teaching experience to Team Brady. She comes from Knox Jr. High where she taught science and served as head coach for a variety of sports teams. In her early career, Heather served as Senator Todd Staples’ District Coordinator and spent time managing campaigns for community leaders at both a local and state level. Her established involvement in the community and strong public service background make her a great fit for the Eighth Congressional District. Heather’s predecessor, Todd Stephens, who was a member of Congressman Kevin Brady’s staff for thirteen years, has accepted a position at The Woodlands Township as Manager of Internal Governmental Relations. Transitioning into his role, Todd gave a fond farewell: “As Congressman Brady has always said, ‘he went to Washington to tackle the big issues’ and I have enjoyed working alongside him on issues important to helping Texas families from pension reform to hurricane recovery following Rita, Ike and now Harvey to once-in-a-generation tax reform. I love this community and the people who call it home, and it has been an honor serving them and Mr. Brady.” Statement from Congressman Brady: “District Eight is lucky to have community leaders like Todd Stephens. I am grateful for for his unwavering dedication and years of public service to our community. Heather has large shoes to fill, but with her knowledge and experience, I am confident that she has what it takes to be a fantastic District Director." PERMALINK
12.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08), lead author of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, today released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed this historic legislation into law: “Today is truly a historic day for the American people. By signing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, President Trump put our nation’s broken tax code behind us and ignited a new era of American prosperity. This legislation will deliver real relief to hardworking families in my district and across the country who will be able to keep more of the money they earn. It will create more opportunities for workers to find that next new job, earn that long-overdue raise, and get ahead. And it will revitalize our economy so American businesses can once again compete and win anywhere in the world – but especially here at home. “As I’ve said before, comprehensive tax reform is the biggest legislative challenge of any generation. But with President Trump’s leadership, we were able to overcome that challenge and deliver on our promise to the American people. I’m proud to say there will be a new tax code – a pro-growth, pro-family, pro-America tax code – in the New Year.” President Trump and Congressman Brady shaking hands at White House Press Conference on December 20th, 2017. CLICK HERE to see how much tax relief the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will deliver to middle-income families in every Congressional district who will take the new, larger standard deduction. CLICK HERE to learn more about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. PERMALINK
12.21.2017	This is a breakthrough for preventing future flooding share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed $81 billion in new disaster recovery funds to provide for relief for Hurricane Harvey and other natural disasters, including crucial flood mitigation projects. Texas and Florida congressional delegations joined forces to significantly increase the original $44 billion funding request from the Office of Management and Budget. In addition to more FEMA, housing, business, agriculture, infrastructure and economic development funding, the measure includes $12.5 billion to help communities protect against future natural disasters and prevent repetitive costs. Upon passage by a 251 to 169 margin, a coalition of U.S. Representatives (Rep. Kevin Brady, Rep. Brian Babin, Rep. John Culberson, Rep. Michael McCaul, Rep. Pete Olson, Rep. Ted Poe, and Rep. Randy Weber) from districts impacted by Hurricane Harvey issued the following joint statement: “This is a breakthrough for preventing future flooding. In addition to funding Texas’s ongoing recovery needs, we have succeeded in securing billions of dollars to prevent future flooding of our homes and communities. Texas could be eligible for up to $15 billion in aid, including a $10.5 billion pool for flood mitigation projects. Many of our key regional projects can move forward with this funding, some of which are already authorized and awaiting funding – others which require updated studies and assessment as a crucial first step.” BACKGROUND In the wake of the damage caused by Hurricane Harvey and the other natural disasters that struck across America in 2017, Congress crafted legislation to provide relief and recovery funds to the affected areas. Alongside important FEMA Disaster Relief Funds and HUD Community Development Block Grants, this includes additional funding for the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Eligible Projects Include: - Addicks and Barker Reservoir Dam System Improvement Study including Cypress Creek Reservoir Project & Harris County Buyout Project - Clear Creek Flood Damage Reduction (Watershed) Project - Montgomery County Reservoir Project Study - Metropolitan Houston Regional Watershed Assessment - Houston Ship Channel Repairs - Brays Bayou Flood Risk Management Project - Hunting Bayou Flood Risk Management Project; and - White Oak Bayou Flood Risk Management Project PERMALINK
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives voted to give its final approval of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, officially sending this historic tax reform legislation to President Trump’s desk. Upon passage, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement: “With today’s vote, the House officially sends historic, transformational tax reform to President Trump’s desk. This is an incredibly exciting day for the American people, who have waited years – even decades – for a simpler, fairer tax code that will grow our economy and allow them to keep more of their hard-earned money. For the first time in three decades, Americans will finally have a tax code that delivers more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks to people and families across our nation. That’s great news for people in my home state of Texas and all Americans.” CLICK HERE to view Congressman Brady’s opening statement today on the House floor. CLICK HERE to read the full legislative text of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HERE to read the policy highlights of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Friday, 38 members of the Texas and Florida delegation met to discuss the inadequate disaster supplemental request from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The entire group sent a letter to Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member Lowey to underscore the need to significantly improve the disaster supplemental appropriations bill. Congressman Brady (TX-08), Congressman Cuellar (TX-28), and Congressman Culberson (TX-07), along with Florida representatives released the following joint statement: “We are deeply disappointed by OMB’s inadequate funding request. It is the federal government’s responsibility to ensure that the people of Texas and Florida receive the resources needed to recover from Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. These were devastating disasters with serious consequences that require sufficient monetary assistance. We will continue to work with our colleagues to obtain the necessary, substantial funding for Texans and Floridians so that they can quickly rebuild communities and be better equipped to withstand future disasters.” CLICK HERE to view the full letter signed by 38 Texas and Florida Representatives. PERMALINK
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House took historic action to pass the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) - bold tax reform legislation that delivers major tax relief to Texans and all Americans. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “This is a historic moment for the American people,” said Congressman Brady. “Today we give hope to middle-income families and Main Street job creators in Texas and across the country that a brighter future is on the horizon – a future where you can keep more of what you earn, start that new business, find that next job, and get that long-overdue raise. This vote is a big step forward – but it is not the last step. We will continue to strengthen this legislation and, working with the Senate, we will put tax reform on President Trump's desk by the end of the year for the first time in 31 years.” WATCH: Click HERE or below to watch Congressman Brady's floor speech in support of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. SPOTTED: Congressman Brady alongside President Trump just moments before the House passed tax reform. What the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act means... For Texas: Creates 74,037 news jobs. Increases the annual income by $2,210 for median household of four. In District Eight, the average four-person family will see a tax cut of $2,099. (calculated from average median income: $92,113) Strengthens Texas’ prominence as the nations leading exporting state by slashing the 35 percent corporate tax rate, the highest in the developed world, to 20 percent. Allowing Texas companies to reinvest back added profits into further modernization and job creation. For All Americans: Lowers individual tax rates for low-and middle-income Americans to Zero, 12%, 25%, and 35%. 39.6% for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Eliminates special-interest tax breaks so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. For Families: Establishing a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children, and providing a credit of $300 for each parent and non-child dependent to help all families with their everyday expenses. Preserving the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserving the Adoption Tax Credit so parents continue to receive additional tax relief as they open their hearts and their homes to an adopted child. Maintains the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide important tax relief for low-income Americans working to build better lives for themselves. Streamlines higher education benefits to help families save for and better afford college tuition and other education expenses. Continues the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts so Americans can continue to save for their future. Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax so millions of individuals and families will no longer have to worry about calculating their taxes twice each year and paying the higher amount. Repeals the Death Tax after seven years. Family-owned farms and businesses will no longer have to worry about double or triple taxation from Washington when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. For Businesses: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20%– down from 35%, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Reduces the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators to no more than 25%– the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. Provides a new, low tax rate of 9% for the first $75,000 of business income earned by owners of pass-through businesses of all types who earn less than $150,000, which will help the Main Street startups in every line of business that fuel innovation and job creation in communities across the country. Establishes strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and pass-through business income so tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing the growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off the interest on loans so that job creators can expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks. Retains the low-income housing tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in affordable housing so families, individuals, and seniors can find a safe and comfortable place to call home. Preserves the Research & Development Tax Credit– encouraging our businesses and workers to develop cutting-edge “Made in America” products and services. Strengthens accountability rules for tax-exempt organizations to ensure that churches, charities, foundations, and other organizations receiving tax-exempt status are focused on helping people and communities in need. Modernizes our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators.
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the final version of this year’s National Defense Authorization Act – better known as the NDAA. This bill funds critical defense priorities, including military readiness and a deserved pay raise for our troops. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement after voting for the bill: "Today, I joined my colleagues in the House to vote for the largest military authorization we’ve seen in years. This means funding for priorities like readiness, missile defense, and a well-earned pay raise for our troops. Ensuring our troops have the resources and support they need is crucial. I am proud to help send this bill to President Trump’s desk, and look forward to seeing him sign it into law." WATCH: This legislation ensures local military leaders - like men and women at the Army Reserve Aviation Unit in Conroe - have what they need to keep us safe. Check out the below recap of Congressman Brady’s recent visits to Army Reserve 1st Battalion Aviation Unit in Conroe, TX. Click play button or HERE to watch. HIGHLIGHTS Readiness: After years of the military facing threats with one hand tied behind its back thanks to budget cuts, the NDAA authorizes increasing the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard. Troop Pay Raise: For years, America’s soldiers and their families have been asked to sacrifice more while receiving less. This bill gives our troops their largest pay raise since 2010 by fully funding the 2.4% raise they are entitled to by law, while blocking the President’s ability to reduce troop pay. Missile Defense: Following eight years of lead-from-behind foreign policy, America’s enemies, including North Korea and Iran, are actively seeking intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs). The NDAA adds $4.4 billion above the President’s initial budget request for missile defense needs. Securing Space: Every mission our military performs relies on satellites and technology in space. The NDAA takes the first steps to consolidate and improve America’s national security space programs to defend these assets. Protecting Israel: As America’s greatest ally in the Middle East, Israel has earned and deserves our support. The NDAA provides Israel the resources it needs to defend itself, including for missile defense systems like Iron Dome and David’s Sling. BACKGROUND Every year, Congress executes its Article 1 constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense” through an annual NDAA. This July the House passed its version of the NDAA, and then went into conference with the Senate to create a final bill. This bill is the final version of the NDAA, and is expected to be signed into law by President Trump. CLICK HERE to learn more.
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the House passed bipartisan legislation that improves the health of our forests and reduces the risk of wildfires. Following passage of the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017 (H.R. 2936), U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement: "When it comes to wildfire response and recovery, there is no time to waste. This legislation offers real solutions to create healthier, more resilient forests. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to move quickly on this and work with us to reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools Act, which is vital to communities in my district." BACKGROUND: H.R. 2936 would implement a series of reforms to how the Forest Service manages and administers national forests and grasslands. The bill would reduce project planning times, the cost of implementing forest management projects, and would simplify environmental requirements. CLICK HERE to learn more. LIST OF SUPPORTERS: Archery Trade Association, Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, Boone and Crockett Club, Catch-a-Dream Foundation, Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation, Conservation Force, Council to Advance Hunting and the Shooting Sports, Delta Waterfowl, Houston Safari Club, Mule Deer Foundation, National Association of Forest Service Retirees, National Rifle Association, National Shooting Sports Foundation, National Wild Turkey Federation, Professional Outfitters and Guides Association, Ruffed Grouse Society, Safari Club International, Whitetails Unlimited, Wild Sheep Foundation, Wildlife Forever, Wildlife Management Institute, and Wildlife Mississippi. PERMALINK
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after the House gave final approval to the FY 2018 Budget Resolution – which paves the way for historic pro-growth tax reform: “By passing this budget today, House Republicans just provided the legislative runway for pro-growth tax reform. Our successful vote will allow us to move forward quickly on delivering the first overhaul of America’s tax code in more than three decades. “On November 1, we will introduce our tax reform bill that will deliver more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks to people across our country. Beginning on November 6, the Ways and Means Committee will consider this legislation in a committee markup. “Today is a historic day – and we are ready to deliver tax relief that improves the lives of middle-income Americans and struggling families who have been left behind in our slow-growing economy.” ICYMI: Vice President Pence retweeted Congressman Brady moments after passage. WATCH: Brady's speech on the House floor in support of the budget. Click the below photo or HERE to watch. Floor remarks as prepared for delivery: “With this budget, we have an opportunity to move forward on a major priority for the American people, which is delivering the first overhaul of America’s broken tax code in more than three decades. “When you look at today – the way America is taxed – it doesn’t take long to recognize this is completely and utterly broken. “You can see that it’s so complex – it forces families and job creators to spend billions of hours and dollars each year just filing their taxes. “It’s unfair. It gives wasteful Washington lobbyist loopholes and carve-outs to special interests while hardworking Americans get nothing but frustration. “And you see that our tax code is miserably uncompetitive. That’s why more and more of our American businesses and good-paying jobs are going overseas to countries with more modern and more competitive tax systems. “By passing this budget today, we can send a clear message to the American people: real tax reform is on the way. “A ‘no’ vote as we heard from our Democrat colleagues is to block tax reform and defend the status-quo. “We’re working closely with President Trump as he leads this charge. Together, we have bold ideas to deliver more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for all Americans this year. “But all of this starts by adopting this budget today. “I want to thank Chairman Black and the Budget Committee for all of their hard work. And I want to encourage all of my colleagues to vote yes – to vote yes on tax reform – and join me in taking an important, historic step forward to deliver on our tax reform promise.” “I’d like to thank Chairman Black and the Budget Committee for all of their hard work. And I’d like to encourage all of my colleagues to vote yes and join me in taking an important step forward to deliver on our tax reform promise.” PERMALINK
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - After a late night meeting with leaders of the U.S. House of Representatives, and consulting with Governor Abbott, members of the Texas delegation have identified nearly $15 billion of emergency funding for Texas to be included in the emergency disaster funding bill that passed the House this afternoon. In a telephone call with members of the Texas Delegation, Governor Abbott expressed his commitment to continuing to work with the Texas Congressional Delegation and Congressional Leadership to ensure that Texas has the resources needed to recover and rebuild. The measure includes $11 billion to pay anticipated claims for flood insurance for Texas victims of Hurricane Harvey, and an estimated $4 billion for the FEMA disaster relief fund for Texas. The new FEMA funding for Texas will provide direct housing assistance, home repairs, debris removal and public assistance grants to eligible communities to begin repairs of roads, utility work, schools and public buildings. The flood insurance program is expected to run out of money within weeks – meaning Texas claims would not be paid – and FEMA funding will be exhausted soon due to the faster than expected drawdown to address Hurricane Maria claims. In addition to the $15 billion, Texas cities will also have access to a $4.9 billion pool for grants for Community Disaster Loans. These loans help communities with revenue losses due to disasters, so the communities can pay for police and fire protection and other critical local needs during their recovery. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady along with members of the Texas Delegation released the following joint statement after passage of the disaster supplemental appropriations package (H.R. 2266): “Our top priority is to make sure money doesn’t run out in the next few weeks for Texas homeowners eager to rebuild their homes, as well as communities counting on FEMA funding for temporary housing, debris removal and infrastructure repairs for roads and schools”, said Representatives John Culberson of Houston, John Carter of Round Rock, and Kay Granger of Fort Worth, chairmen of key Appropriations Committee panels in Congress. “These emergency needs require action right now or a lot of Texans will be hurt. We are keeping our eyes focused on the long term recovery needs for Texas, which could exceed $100 billion and we will continue to work closely with Governor Abbott and our community leaders to secure that funding in the weeks ahead.” PERMALINK
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed key legislation long championed by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady to end controversial late term abortions. Congressman Brady released the following statement: “Babies born in the sixth month or undergoing life-saving operations in utero are surviving and thriving. It’s time the law catches up to these amazing improvements in medical science. Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life, as I am, there should be common ground that abortion ceases to be an option when a baby can live outside the mother’s womb or experience excruciating pain from a procedure.” BACKGROUND: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36) includes protections for these babies and for their mothers facing life threatening situations. H.R. 36 is in line with Texas law that prohibits abortions carried out after 20 weeks and would apply those protections nationwide. Modern medicine is saving these precious lives. Specifically, five-year-old Micah Pickering - born in 2012 at just 22 weeks old - is the face of the many lives that will be saved by this legislation. Micah received intensive care as an infant and is now a healthy, normal child. He is living proof that children born as young as 20 weeks post-fertilization have the potential to thrive with the right medical care. CLICK HERE to learn more about Micah's inspirational story. FACTS: The U.S. is among seven countries that permit elective abortion past 20 weeks, including Canada, China, The Netherlands, North Korea, Singapore and Vietnam. source: The Charlotte Lozier Institute CLICK HERE for more facts. PERMALINK
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Texas Health and Human Services Commission has estimated that they have enough funding for CHIP until February 2018. Congressman Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: "I am working with leaders in Congress to extend this important program and include improvements that continue our teaching centers and community health clinics in Texas and across the country. I am confident Congress will approve funding and hopeful Democrats will work with us to find common ground." BACKGROUND: Energy and Commerce Committee is voting on a package of bills tomorrow, October 4th, that includes a five year reauthorization for CHIP along with funding for Community Health Centers (CHC) and the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) Program through 2019. PERMALINK
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, President Trump signed into law the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017 (H.R. 3823), which includes Congressman Kevin Brady’s (TX-08) bill to deliver targeted tax relief to the victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. “I am so grateful for my colleagues support this week and for President Trump’s swift action to sign my critical legislation into law,” Brady said. “Families in my district, and throughout Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands have been ravaged by some of the most destructive hurricanes our nation has ever seen. They’ve lost their homes, their access to food and water, electricity – even their loved ones. This new law delivers relief they desperately need – relief that will help put them on the road to recovery. As the people in my district – and all of those who have been harmed by these recent hurricanes – work to regain their strength and rebuild their communities, I will continue taking steps to ensure they have the support they need.” Photo: Congressman Brady and fellow Texas Members - Republican and Democrat - stand outside the Capitol for a bipartisan Texas Strong Press Conference. WATCH: Texas bipartisan press conference HERE. CLICK HERE to learn more about the bill. PERMALINK
09.25.2017	House Democrats embodied the very worst of Washington, putting politics ahead of people. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after a majority of House Democrats opposed the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017 – which includes legislation the Congressman introduced to deliver temporary tax relief to the victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria – effectively defeating the package: “Tonight, House Democrats embodied the very worst of Washington, putting politics ahead of people. Communities in Texas, Puerto Rico, Florida, and the Virgin Islands have been devastated by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. Hundreds of thousands of families lost everything – even loved ones. And instead of helping them recover from this destruction with meaningful, targeted tax relief, Democrats have once again used critical legislation – life-saving legislation – as a bargaining chip to achieve their own agenda. I’m incredibly disappointed. “In a time of great tragedy, we should show the nation we can stand together to help each other and our neighbors – just as many people did for my district in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. I’ll continue working to ensure we deliver this much-needed relief to hurricane victims in Texas and across the country.” PERMALINK
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House passed an emergency funding bill to provide relief for those impacted by Hurricane Harvey. U.S. Congressman Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: "Today's vote shows that we stand together in the face of tragedy. I am pleased Congress moved so quickly to bring much-needed relief to our communities impacted by Hurricane Harvey. Over the coming weeks, we'll act to provide the relief that Texans need, not what Washington needs, in a way that is helpful - not wasteful." WATCH: Click play button below or HERE to watch Congressman Brady's video address. BACKGROUND Making Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief (H.Res. 502) includes: $7.85 billion for relief for victims of Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Louisiana $7.4 billion for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund $450 million to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners begin to rebuild PERMALINK
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Make America Secure Appropriations Act (H.R. 3219). This legislative package will ensure that American citizens are kept safe at home and abroad. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “This President and this Congress are fully committed to putting the safety of the American people first. This legislation funds the most critical functions of government. It bolsters military readiness, ensures our veterans get the care they deserve, and gives our troops a well-earned pay raise. Additionally, this bill takes a huge step forward in securing our southern borders once and for all by prioritizing construction of a border wall with Mexico. I am proud to support this bill.” BACKGROUND: The Make America Secure Appropriations Act is made up of the Defense, Military Construction & Veterans Affairs, Energy & Water, and Legislative Branch appropriations bills, and includes additional funding for border wall construction. Highlights Include: DEFENSE Provides $651.8 billion for the Department of Defense, which provides much-needed funding to rebuild our military and restore troop readiness. This includes priorities like meeting the Armed Services’ unfunded equipment requirements, $84.3 billion in military research and development, funding for Israeli missile defense, and a 2.4% pay raise for the troops. BORDER WALL FUNDING Fully funds President Trump’s request of $1.57 billion for construction of physical barriers on the Southern border, including a combined 60 miles of new fencing and wall in Texas. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION & VETERANS AFFAIRS Provides $78.3 billion in discretionary funding for the VA, with $69 billion dedicated to medical care for our veterans. Also boosts funding for military family housing and medical facilities, while continuing the prohibition on closing Guantanamo Bay. ENERGY & WATER Provides $13.9 billion in nuclear weapons security. The bill provides $6.16 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers to focus on jobs that increase public safety, job creation, and economic growth- including projects that will help the functionality of our Texas ports. The bill also allows the Administrator of the EPA and Secretary of the Army Corp. of Engineers to withdraw from the WOTUS rule, which helps our local farmers, ranchers, and landowners. LEGISLATIVE BRANCH Funds both the House and Senate so that they may continue their work to represent the American people. This includes funding for the Capitol Police, and freezes Members of Congress’ pay – preventing any pay raise in FY2018. Visit the House Committee on Appropriations for more information. PERMALINK
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to increase sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea. Following the passage of the bill (H.R. 3364), U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: "Today, the House overwhelmingly passed bipartisan legislation placing tough sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea. In doing so, Congress sent a strong message that their dangerous behavior will not be tolerated." BACKGROUND: Russia is undermining security around the world. Vladimir Putin’s Russia has aggressively interfered in global affairs while ignoring human rights violations in its own backyard. This includes propping up Syrian dictator Bashar Al Assad, annexing Crimea and supporting rebels in eastern Ukraine, and covertly working against democratically elected governments and institutions, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act directly targets Vladimir Putin and the oligarchs who support him, helps bolster European energy security away from reliance on Russia, and enshrines existing Russian sanctions into law. Iran is funding terrorism and undermining the Middle East. Following President Obama’s nuclear deal, Iran has received a windfall of billions through sanctions relief. This has been used to help fund efforts to destabilize the Middle East by supporting terrorist organizations, backing Syria’s Bashar Al Assad, and continuing development of ballistic missiles. These efforts are a direct threat to America and our Middle Eastern allies, including Israel. The Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act targets Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps and cuts off anyone who contributes to the Iranian regime’s ballistic missile program. North Korea is targeting the United States with nuclear weapons. Since February alone, Kim Jong Un has tested 17 missiles, including the first successful test of a ICBM capable of hitting the American homeland. There is no sign that North Korea has any plans of stopping until it has a nuclear weapon capable of striking a major American city. The Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act includes sanctions passed by the House earlier this year that cut off cash sources funding North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs while also restricting North Korea’s illicit trade and slave labor income sources. PERMALINK
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed this year’s National Defense Authorization Act – better known as the NDAA (H.R. 2810). This bill funds critical defense priorities, including military readiness and a pay raise for our troops. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement after voting for the bill: My number one constitutional responsibility is funding our national defense and the men and women who sacrifice everyday to provide it. For years, our military has faced growing threats around the world with one hand tied behind its back thanks to budget cuts. This bill provides billions in increased funding to ensure our military have the tools, training, and troops they need to protect our country. The NDAA is key to the security of our country and fulfills our promise to the American people to Make Our Military Strong Again. WATCH: Click play button below or HERE to watch video. BACKGROUND READINESS: After a half-decade of cuts, we’re rebuilding The NDAA authorizes increasing the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard. It increases funding for maintenance for all Services, for increased training opportunities, and for sustaining, restoring, and modernizing facilities. The NDAA provides for U.S. involvement and support for efforts in strategic regions around the world. It enhances our defense by modernizing our nuclear weapons stockpile, missile defense, and military vehicles; and supporting defensive and offensive cyberspace strategy. It prohibits transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States, and from transferring the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay back to Cuba. RESOURCES: Providing our troops and their families what they need This bill gives our troops the largest pay since 2010. It also extends special pay and bonuses for service members. It blocks the misguided attempt to close military medical facilities upon which our deployed troops and their families rely. Additionally it provides commonsense resources to help families manage challenges like relocations, including reimbursements for spouse’s obtaining licensing/certification in another state. REFORM: We’re reforming the way the Pentagon does business Building on the reforms we enacted over the past two years with strong bipartisan support: Updated retirement system, improved military health care system, made commissary benefits more efficient and sustainable, overhauled bureaucracy, and made changes to the way the Pentagon buys goods and services. The FY18 NDAA further streamlines bureaucracy, drives efficiency through competition, and gives the Pentagon the tools it needs to make better business decisions by adding oversight to service contracts. Any funding for services that need to be contracted out will now be submitted through the DOD budget process, forcing the Pentagon to analyze actual needs and spending patterns. Congress will have a better idea of what kinds of services are being contracted and their cost. It also improves the way the Pentagon buys commercial off-the-shelf goods, by allowing the DOD to use online commercial sites like Amazon or Grainger, to get goods at a lower price, quicker, and in a more transparent process. The NDAA also updates Uniform Code of Military Justice to prohibit crimes of non-consensual sharing of intimate images. CLICK HERE to learn more. PERMALINK
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) introduced legislation this week to help Americans living with immunodeficiency diseases receive affordable, effective treatments – known as Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIG) treatments. Specifically, the bill (H.R. 3172) extends a successful Medicare pilot program that allows patients with weakened immune systems to receive care in their homes. “For patients with weakened immune systems – especially young children – it’s a daily fight to survive,” said Brady upon introducing the legislation. “My bill helps ensure these fragile patients get the care they need from the comfort and safety of their own home.” “Our Congressman is protecting some of our most vulnerable patients from exposure to disease,” said Carol Ann Demaret, Brady’s constituent whose son, David, suffered from Severe Combined Immunodeficiency Disease (SCID). “Patients with Primary Immunodeficiency Diseases have a champion in Congressman Kevin Brady who led the successful effort to get safe, effective home IVIG therapies added to Medicare.” “David couldn’t ask for a better legacy or advocate,” added Brady. “Carol Ann has continued to fight for a cure and treatments that help immune challenged patients live better lives. She has been with us every step of the way on this effort.” BACKGROUND: The Medicare IVIG Demonstration Project was established to study the impact of paying for intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) home infusions. The goal of the Medicare IVIG Demonstration Project is to prove the cost effectiveness of allowing Medicare patients with Primary Immunodeficiency Disease (PI) access to home infusions of IVIG. While Medicare Part B includes a special provision for patients with PI to receive home infusions of IVIG, the Medicare law included only reimbursement for the immunoglobulin (Ig) product, not allowing for Medicare payment for nursing services or other items necessary for infusions in the home setting. Medicare beneficiaries are effectively denied IVIG in the home setting, forcing patients with PI to seek care in other settings even when their most appropriate site of care might be the home. This pilot allows reimbursement for all infusion costs, and could lead to a permanent fix for patients with PI. David Vetter, affectionately known as the “Boy in the Bubble”, was born with Severe Combined Immune Deficiency (SCID), one of the most severe types of primary immunodeficiency disease. At the time of his birth in 1971, a bone marrow transplant from an exact matched donor was the only cure for SCID, but there was no match available in David’s family. For 12 years, David captured the world’s attention as he lived in protected environments to maintain relatively germ-free surroundings at Texas Children’s Hospital. He passed away in 1984 having always lived in a sterile environment. National Home Infusion Association (NHIA) supports this legislation. PERMALINK
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, President Trump signed into law the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. This bipartisan legislation ensures our veterans receive the care they have earned and deserve. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: Our vets have waited years for this kind of change and I could not be happier to see President Trump sign it into law! This is about restoring accountability at the VA, and this bill – now law – helps change the culture at the VA. Our vets have sacrificed everything for us: they deserve the best and that sometimes means getting rid of bad VA employees. Sadly, the VA can get so caught up in bureaucratic red tape, it can take years to get rid of these employees. This bill cuts through the red tape, sets a clear path to fire bad VA employees and makes way for more employees who will give our veterans the respect – and most importantly, the care they deserve. BACKGROUND: Multiple incidents of serious VA employee misconduct have been reported in recent years, often with minimal disciplinary action – if any at all – taken. Examples include; an employee who committed armed robbery, a nurse who participated in a veteran’s surgery while intoxicated, and continued failures to properly manage major VA construction projects, resulting in billions of wasted taxpayer dollars. The VA’s civil service laws have hampered the department’s ability to take proper action against such employees, resulting in lower quality service for veterans and a poor reputation for the department as a whole. The VA Accountability Act of 2017 will... Create a new streamlined and efficient process to remove, demote or suspend (for longer than 14 days) any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct with a concrete shortened timeline, while still protecting employees’ due process rights, and would provide them with the right to appeal the action. Provide expanded protections for whistleblowers and would specifically bar VA from using this removal authority if the employee has an open whistleblower complaint/case with the Office of Special Counsel. Provide the Secretary with the authority to reduce an employee’s federal pension if they are convicted of a felony that influenced their job at VA; recoup a bonus provided to an employee who engaged in misconduct or poor performance prior to receiving the bonus; and allow the Secretary to recoup any relocation expenses that were authorized for a VA employee only through the employee’s ill-gotten means, such as fraud waste or malfeasance. Authorize the Secretary to directly appoint individuals to the positions of Medical Center Director and Director of Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) if they have a demonstrated ability in the medical profession, health care administration or health care fiscal management. This will make it easier to fill these critical positions quickly.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is praising the Capitol Hill Police this morning following a shooting at a practice for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for Charity. Congressman Brady released the following statement: “The quick action of Majority Whip Steve Scalise’s protection detail saved many lives this morning. I am so grateful for the heroic action of the Capitol Hill Police Force protection detail and pray for the full recovery of my roommate Congressman Steve Scalise and others wounded this morning.” BACKGROUND: Congressman Kevin Brady attended practice this morning but had left practice moments before the shooting began. Photo (left to right): Congressman Erik Paulsen, Congressman Kevin Brady, Congressman Steve Scalise, Congressman John Shimkus PERMALINK
06.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement: "This withdrawal was inevitable the moment President Obama realized this extreme agreement could not gain approval even from his own Democratic Senate, so he went at it alone. This decision frees America to continue to reduce emissions and seek cleaner air on America's timetable using American technology and innovation without sacrificing affordable energy and middle class jobs. I commend President Trump for fulfilling his commitment to the American people. "
06.02.2017	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) is honored to announce that seven students from the 8th District of Texas received appointments to our nation’s most prestigious service academies after being nominated by his office. “There are serious military challenges facing our nation in every corner of the world and these challenges must be met with a strong military led by our brightest and best. The young leaders we are sending this year are exceptional, qualified and impressive young patriots. We are honored by their desire to serve our country.” These distinguished appointments include: United States Military Academy at West Point: Christian Mardaga, The Woodlands Christian Academy United States Naval Academy at Annapolis: Meleah Caron, The Woodlands College Park High School; Broderick Moore, The Woodlands High School; and Francisco Ramos, The Naval Academy Preparatory School United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs: Joshua Sorensen, The Woodlands High School and Kyler Wedgeworth, The United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School The U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point: Kyu Hwan Oh, The Woodlands College Park High School Background: The 8th Congressional District has earned a reputation for sending exceptionally well qualified candidates to the service academies. We have an extremely competitive selection process. In order to be offered an appointment to a service academy, candidates must be at least 17 and not yet 23 years of age by July 1 of the year of admission, a United States citizen, unmarried and a resident of Congressman Brady's district. Students interested in applying should speak with their local high school guidance counselor. Congressman Brady’s office coordinates with local high school students through these counselors and all students are interviewed by a board of distinguished community leaders. Students can also learn more about the process and download the application at http://kevinbrady.house.gov/constituent-services/service-academy-nominations.htm and by contacting Vita Swarers in the Huntsville district office at 936-439-9532.
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - President Donald J. Trump’s first annual budget proposal puts America first by reprioritizes spending in important ways. U.S. Congressman Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: We finally have a President who is committed to restoring the American Dream. President Trump’s budget reduces government waste, slashes the national debt and uses fiscally conservative principles to pave the path towards a balanced budget that will deliver economic growth. Furthermore, it prioritizes the safety and security of our nation by rebuilding our military and securing the southern border. I look forward to passing a balanced, built for growth budget that moves our economy forward. The graph below shows proposed changes over ten years: BACKGROUND: Safety and Security o $54 billion billion increase in military spending to fight terrorists lay the groundwork for a larger, more capable strategy-driven military. o $300 million towards securing our southern border and immigration enforcement. o Recruiting and hiring additional agents, officers, investigators, attorneys, and support staff at CBP and ICE. Jobs and Growth o This budget prioritizes reforming our broken tax code so workers can keep more of their hard-earned dollars. o It also takes steps to protect workers and businesses by strongly enforcing our trade agreements and holding our trading partners accountable. Regulatory and Entitlement Relief Saves $274 billion over 10 years o By placing an emphasis on reducing waste, fraud, and abuse, President Trump’s budget also takes steps to ensure every dollar invested in important federal programs is truly helping individuals and families. o His budget also focuses on helping people in poverty find a job, earn a paycheck, and climb the economic ladder by rewarding work. o Cutting Obama era regulations, which have generated annual cost savings of approximately $600 million to $1.2 billion per year. CLICK HERE to learn more.
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) spoke at a press conference on the urgent need for tax reform that will create jobs, increase paychecks, and grow America’s economy. Tomorrow, the Ways and Means Committee, which Congressman Brady Chairs, will have a major hearing on tax reform. CLICK HERE or the image above to watch video. Congressman Brady’s remarks on tax reform: “For the first time in 30 years, the House, the White House, and the Senate are all now committed to leading on this issue. “We’re taking action on pro-growth tax reform now because it’s time to end the special interest loopholes. “It’s time to deliver fairness for all taxpayers. “It’s time to lower taxes for all Americans on every income level. “It’s time to cut the sky-high tax rate on businesses so that American headquarters and American jobs no longer move overseas for a better deal. “It’s time to end the death tax. “It’s time to level the playing field for American manufacturers and make America more competitive. “It’s time for tax reform that creates over a million new jobs and helps Americans keep more of their hard-earned money. “It’s time for Washington to lead on this issue now – and that’s what we are doing. “Tomorrow, Ways and Means Republicans will hold a major hearing on tax reform, related to growth, jobs, wages, and the U.S. economy. “We encourage all Americans to tune in.” The hearing on tax reform will take place on Thursday, May 18 at 9:00 AM. CLICK HERE to learn more.
05.17.2017	THE WOODLANDS, TX - As a Montgomery County Justice of the Peace faces a federal legal battle from the Wisconsin-based Freedom from Religion Foundation, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady stands with Judge Wayne Mack. Congressman Brady released the following statement: "Make no mistake, this hollow federal lawsuit is designed specifically to intimidate Judge Mack and others who refuse to erase religion from America's public life." Brady is convinced that this legal effort to stop the court's traditional invocation before each session will fail. "Judge Mack has the courage to stand strong for our history and tradition, and I and many others in our nation are proud to stand with him.“ CLICK HERE for background information.
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, The U.S. House passed the Strengthening State and Local Cyber Crime Fighting Act of 2017 (H.R. 1616). which provides state and local law enforcement the tools they need to keep us safe against cyber-crime. Congressman Brady issued the following statement: "Our local law enforcement faces new cyber-crime challenges on a daily basis. I’m honored to join my fellow Texan, U.S. Congressman John Ratcliffe (TX-04), in making sure those who protect and serve us have the tools and training necessary to respond and investigate cyber-attacks." BACKGROUND: H.R. 1616 stems from a program developed by the state of Alabama in 2007, after the state approached the federal government to create a facility to train their local law enforcement, judges, and prosecutors on legal issues pertaining to cyber-crime. Under this agreement, the federal government provided a facility and the Secret Service provided training. The institute created in Alabama has trained officers and legal professionals from every state, providing them with the tools they need to train others within their agencies in areas pertaining to cyber-crime. This legislation also provides the institute with special equipment, including computer hardware, software, manuals, and other tools necessary for investigations and mobile device forensic examinations, and authorizes the institute to provide the equipment to state, local, and tribal authorities.
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement and video after the passage of The American Health Care Act (AHCA): “Today, we took a major step forward to repeal and replace Obamacare. Not only does this legislation rescue millions of Americans from Obamacare’s crushing taxes and collapsing health care market, it lays the foundation for a health care system based on what workers and families want and need. Our proven, conservative solutions will move us away from the government-centered Obamacare model and toward a patient, family, and state-driven approach that will lower costs, expand choices, and increase access to care. “Thanks to President Trump’s leadership and House Republicans’ unwavering commitment to finding solutions, we are moving forward on our promise." WATCH - Click below to watch video statement or CLICK HERE WATCH: Congressman Brady's floor speech in support of the American Health Care Act HERE
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady joined Senator Ted Cruz and Representative Mo Brooks (R-AL) in calling to reserve billions of dollars seized from Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán and other drug lords to pay for increased border security, including a border wall. After signing on as an original co-sponsor of H.R. 2186, the Ensuring Lawful Collection of Hidden Assets to Provide Order (EL CHAPO) Act, Congressman Brady issued the following statement: For decades, drug lords like El Chapo have spread addiction and violence, destroying countless lives in the process. The EL CHAPO Act is a creative and direct solution that will help secure the border while providing a fiscally responsible way of fulfilling one of President Trump’s key promises to the American people. I am proud to be working with Senator Cruz and Representative Brooks on this important legislation, and I look forward to helping it pass the House. BACKGROUND: The EL CHAPO Act is identical to Texas Senator Ted Cruz’s bill of the same name. It reserves any amounts forfeited to the federal government as a result of criminal prosecution of drug lords for border security assets and the completion of the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán is the notorious former leader of the Sinoloa drug cartel and the U.S. is currently seeking criminal forfeiture of over $14 billion in illicit profits from. Extradited to the U.S. in January, El Chapo now awaits criminal proceedings. ORIGINAL BILL CO-SPONSORS INCLUDE: Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08) Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01) Rep. Tom Garrett (VA-05) Rep. Steve King (IA-04) PERMALINK
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Historic, bold tax reform is what Texans have waited years for and today they have a White House, the House and the Senate all moving in the same direction. Following the Trump Administration's tax reform announcement, U.S. Congressman Brady, the House Ways & Means Committee Chairman joined House Speaker Paul Ryan, Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch in releasing the following joint statement: The principles outlined by the Trump Administration today will serve as critical guideposts for Congress and the Administration as we work together to overhaul the American tax system and ensure middle-class families and job creators are better positioned for the 21st century economy. Lower rates for individuals and families will allow them to keep more of their hard-earned money and empower them to invest more in their future. Getting tax rates down for American companies, big and small, will create new jobs and make the United States a more inviting place to do business. With an eye toward fairness and simplicity, we’re confident we can rebuild our tax code in a way that will grow our economy, better promote savings and investment, provide our job creators with a competitive advantage, and bring prosperity to all Americans. WATCH: Congressman Brady discuss Tax Reform on Fox Business HERE
04.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady has been all over District Eight talking to constituents about tax reform creating a simpler tax code for all Americans, and how the House Republican plan will make "Made in Texas" products more competitive globally. In case you missed it, the Ways and Means Committee released the following video: WATCH: Click below to watch video, or click HERE BACKGROUND: House Republicans tax reform focuses on three crucial goals: growing our economy, simplifying the code, and delivering a service-first IRS. As leader of the Tax Reform Task Force, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady has spearheaded the Republican effort to fix our broken system and create a tax code built for growth. CLICK HERE to learn more about the built for growth tax reform plan PERMALINK
04.13.2017	This 21,600-pound, GPS-guided munition is one of America’s most powerful bombs, and is more commonly known by its nickname, “The Mother of All Bombs” or MOAB for short. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. - A GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast Bomb (MOAB) was dropped on Islamic State tunnels in Afghanistan today. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement: President Trump just sent a strong message to the Islamic State that will be heard in Russia, North Korea, Iran and around the world. I applaud our brave men and women in uniform who put their lives on the line every day to keep our country safe. BACKGROUND: This Thursday, The U.S. military dropped a GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast Bomb Thursday from an MC-130 on ISIS targets in Afghanistan. This 21,600-pound, GPS-guided munition is one of America’s most powerful bombs, and is more commonly known by its nickname, “The Mother of All Bombs” or MOAB for short. According to General John Nicholson, commander of U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, “As ISIS-K's losses have mounted, they are using IEDs, bunkers and tunnels to thicken their defense, this is the right munition to reduce these obstacles and maintain the momentum of our offensive against ISIS-K.
04.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) and Tax Policy Subcommittee Chairman Peter Roskam (R-IL) sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions calling on the Department of Justice to review evidence that Lois Lerner, the former IRS Exempt Organizations Division Director under the Obama Administration, broke the law to target Americans for their political beliefs. Despite clear evidence of criminal misconduct and a Committee referral to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution, the Obama Administration refused to review the information and deliver justice to the taxpayers harmed by Ms. Lerner’s actions. In the letter to Attorney General Sessions, Chairmen Brady and Roskam wrote: “Taxpayers deserve to know that the DOJ’s previous evaluation was not tainted by politics … We respectfully request the Department of Justice to take a fresh look at the evidence presented in the attached referral in order to restore taxpayers’ trust in the IRS.” Explaining the Committee’s findings from a three-year investigation and initial referral for criminal prosecution, the Chairmen added: “The Committee found that Ms. Lerner used her position to improperly influence IRS action against conservative organizations, denying these groups due process and equal protection rights under the law. The Committee also found she impeded official investigations by providing misleading statements in response to questions from the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. Finally, Lerner risked exposing, and may actually have disclosed, confidential taxpayer information, in apparent violation of Internal Revenue Code section 6103 by using her personal email to conduct official business.” CLICK HERE to see timeline of Ms. Lerner’s misconduct at the IRS. Full Text of the Letter Chairmen Brady and Roskam Sent to Attorney General Sessions: The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Mr. Attorney General: On April 9, 2014, the House Committee on Ways and Means voted to send a letter to the Department of Justice referring former IRS Exempt Organizations Division Director Lois G. Lerner for criminal prosecution. As indicated in the attached letter, the Committee’s nearly three-year investigation uncovered evidence of willful misconduct on the part of Ms. Lerner. Despite this fact, and for what many believe were purely partisan reasons, the prior Administration refused to review Ms. Lerner’s misconduct. For the reasons described below, I respectfully request the Department of Justice to take a fresh look at the evidence presented in the attached referral in order to restore taxpayers’ trust in the IRS. In particular, the Committee found that Ms. Lerner used her position to improperly influence IRS action against conservative organizations, denying these groups due process and equal protection rights under the law. The Committee also found she impeded official investigations by providing misleading statements in response to questions from the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. Finally, Lerner risked exposing, and may actually have disclosed, confidential taxpayer information, in apparent violation of Internal Revenue Code section 6103 by using her personal email to conduct official business. As you know, your predecessor brought no charges against Ms. Lerner or any other IRS employees involved in the improper targeting of organizations applying for tax-exempt status. Disturbingly, in February 2014, while the investigation by the Department of Justice (DOJ) was ongoing, President Obama stated there was “not a smidgeon of corruption” at the IRS, preempting a fair investigation in which he had political equities. It is clear that when the DOJ announced in October 2015 that it would not bring charges against Lois Lerner, the agency was following President Obama’s signal on how he wanted the investigation to be handled. Taxpayers deserve to know that the DOJ’s previous evaluation was not tainted by politics. Again, I respectfully request that the Department of Justice to take a fresh look at the evidence presented in the attached referral in order to assure the American people that DOJ’s prior investigation was handled fairly and to restore taxpayers’ trust in the IRS. Sincerely, Kevin Brady Chairman Committee on Ways and Means Peter Roskam Chairman Subcommittee on Tax Policy
04.07.2017	Judge Gorsuch is a well-respected, strongly pro-life constitutional jurist with an amazing legal record. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. - Judge Neil Gorsuch has just been confirmed by the Senate to the U.S. Supreme Court. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: This is a historic day for America with the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the U.S. Supreme Court. Judge Gorsuch is a well-respected, strongly pro-life constitutional jurist with an amazing legal record. Like Justice Scalia who he follows, Gorsuch believes in upholding the fundamentals of our Constitution, especially our Second Amendment and states rights. I am very excited about his ability to help shape the court for generations to come. WATCH: Congressman Brady's video statement below or HERE PERMALINK
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed three bills that strengthen Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster readiness. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement: My constituents know that when it comes to being prepared for natural disasters, there is no such thing as being too prepared. Disaster preparation saves money, property, and most importantly, lives. That’s why I voted for these bills to help FEMA provide better, faster and more consistent disaster relief services to local communities when it matters most. BILL BACKGROUND - Bills passed in the House include: FEMA Disaster Assistance Act (H.R. 1117) This bill directs FEMA to foster more open communications between disaster response operations and affected communities after an emergency or disaster by providing more transparency, increased consistency, and better assistance during the recovery phase. Disaster SAVE Act (H.R. 1214) This bill increases FEMA's disaster recovery budget so that services can be provided to local communities in a timely manner. Pacific Northwest Earthquake Preparedness Act (H.R. 654) This bill directs the Administrator of FEMA to carry out a plan for the purchase and installation of an earthquake early warning system for the Cascadia Subduction Zone. PERMALINK
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Brady (TX-08) delivered the following opening statement at the House Rules Committee hearing on the American Health Care Act: "Chairman Sessions, Ranking Member McGovern, Members of the Rules Committee – thank you for allowing me to testify in support of the American Health Care Act, and thank you for your consideration of this important legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. "The Affordable Care Act – also known as Obamacare – has been one failed promise after another. The fact is, this law has hurt far more Americans than it has helped. "Millions of Americans have lost access to the health plans and doctors of their choice. Out-of-pocket costs are skyrocketing. And free-market competition in health care has all but disappeared. "With the American Health Care Act, we have the best opportunity in seven years to repeal this collapsing law, clear the deck, and begin our step-by-step process to deliver a health care system that truly works for the American people. "President Trump has called on Congress to take decisive action in health care reform. This legislation answers the President’s call to action in the thoughtful, deliberate way that Americans deserve. "The Ways and Means portion of the American Health Care Act is focused on achieving two important priorities. "First, delivering swift relief to the American people by repealing Obamacare’s most harmful provisions. "We end the individual mandate tax penalty that has forced millions of Americans into plans they do not want and cannot afford. "We end the employer mandate tax penalty, which has burdened our local job creators and made it harder for them to grow their businesses, hire new workers, and raise wages. "And, we repeal Obamacare tax hikes that have driven up costs for the American people and reduced access to high-quality care. "Our second priority with this legislation is to deliver on our promises to replace Obamacare with patient-focused solutions that truly expand choice, lower costs, and enhance competition. "Here, we are taking action to reclaim control of health care from Washington, and put it back where it belongs – with patients, families, and states. "We expand Health Savings Accounts and make them more flexible and user-friendly. This will give patients and families greater freedom to save their health care dollars for the future and spend them as they see fit. "We protect health coverage for the more than 150 million Americans who receive it from their employers. "And, for low- and middle-income Americans who do not receive coverage through work or a federal program, we offer an advanceable, refundable tax credit that people can use immediately to help purchase coverage that works best for them. "These tax credits provide a much better free-market alternative to the inefficient Obamacare subsidies that exist today. They will deliver support to low- and middle-income Americans while also encouraging greater competition and innovation in the health insurance market. "And, with greater competition, there will be more choices for the American people, lower costs, and better coverage that is tailored to the needs of patients and families – not Washington. "Finally, to further ensure that the American Health Care Act accomplishes these important priorities for the American people, I would ask that the Rules Committee make in order the manager's amendments to the bill. "These manager's amendments, which were made public on Monday evening, followed by an additional second degree technical amendment yesterday to correct drafting errors, take important actions to strengthen the American Health Care Act. "They will better ensure that all Americans have the help they need to access the care that is right for them. "Specifically, they will provide an additional $85 billion in tax relief by further reducing the medical expense deduction threshold for Americans with high health care expenses. "Just last year, AARP supported a similar bill lowering the threshold to pre-Obamacare levels. According to AARP: “For the approximately eight to ten million Americans who annually take this deduction, it provides important tax relief which helps offset the costs of chronic medical conditions as well as long term care.” "This new tax relief creates new resources available for the Senate to provide assistance – including enhancing the tax credit – to older Americans who purchase insurance in the individual market. "In combination with the age-based tax credit and the Patient and State Stability Fund, which provides $100 billion to states to help targeted populations, this change reinforces the commitment of House Republicans to ensure Americans of all ages have access to patient-centered health insurance. "Furthermore, these manager’s amendments will provide more immediate relief from Obamacare’s burdensome taxes on families and businesses, moving up the date of their repeal from 2018 to 2017. "They will strengthen protections for the right to life by ensuring that only the amount of the tax credit that is needed to cover the premiums is used, rather than allowing the excess to roll over into a Health Savings Account (HSA). This further ensures federal dollars cannot be used for abortion services. "And, finally, they will help guarantee that this legislation meets our reconciliation requirements so that it can maintain privileged status in the Senate and move quickly to the President’s desk. "In closing, I want to thank Chairman Walden and Chairman Black for your leadership on the American Health Care Act. And, again, I want to thank the Rules Committee for your consideration of this important legislation." WATCH: Live stream of House Rules Committee hearing HERE PERMALINK
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - This week, the House passed a set of bills designed to improve the VA's day to day operations serving Veterans. Following their passage, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement: Our men and women in uniform have sacrificed everything for their country and they deserve an effective, accountable VA that protects the rights they fought to defend. President Trump has made fulfilling our promises to vets a top priority and the Congress is stepping up to make it happen. These bills are a big step forward for veterans everywhere and I am proud to fight for the brave men and women who have fought for us. BILL BACKGROUND: Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act (H.R. 1181) - Ensures no veteran has their second amendment rights stripped away unless declared a danger to themselves or others by a court of law. VA Accountability First Act of 2017 (H.R. 1259) - Ensures bad actors within the VA are held accountable by expediting the review process of firing, demoting or punishing VA employees. VA Health Care Employees - Best Practices (H.R. 1367) - Ensures our veterans receive the best quality heath care and are treated by the very best providers and establishes new best practices for VA health care employees by correcting deficiencies within VA’s bureaucratic hiring process. PERMALINK
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the FY 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill. This bill funds critical defense priorities, including military readiness and a 2.1% pay raise for our troops. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement after voting for the bill: Congress has no greater Constitutional responsibility than to provide for the common defense. Today, our armed forces face a number of unprecedented threats to our national security. The funds appropriated in the bill will boost military readiness, purchase critically essential combat equipment, provide mission essential training and give our troops a much-deserved pay raise. I am proud to support this legislation and the men and women who serve and keep our country safe. BACKGROUND: The FY 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill ensures a strong, robust military with funding for active, reserve, and guard forces. This bill includes key readiness programs to prepare troops for combat and peacetime missions, while keeping the military on the cutting edge of defense technology. It also outfits American military forces to conduct successful operations, enhances their medical care and benefits, and fully funds a 2.1% pay raise. WATCH: FOX News segment that looks at Marine Aviation Readiness issues CLICK HERE to learn more
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after meeting with President Trump at the White House to discuss the American Health Care Act (AHCA): House Republicans are answering President Trump’s call to action to repeal and replace Obamacare. We are tackling health care in three phases, starting with our reconciliation recommendations, which Health and Human Secretary Price supports (see official letter here). We are transferring power from Washington back to the American people. We dismantle Obamacare’s damaging taxes and mandates so states can deliver quality, affordable options based on what their patient populations need, and workers and families can have the freedom and flexibility to make their own health care choices.We nearly double Health Saving Account (HSA) contributions that can be made, and also block federal funds from going to abortion providers. I’m proud to be moving this important legislation forward with my colleagues and work with President Trump and Secretary Price to deliver on our promises to provide all Americans with access to affordable, quality healthcare. WATCH: Congressman Brady's Press Conference after speaking with President Trump at the White House. WATCH: Congressman Brady's Press Conference with Energy and Commerce Chairman, Congressman Greg Walden. READ: The full text of the American Health Care Act readthebill.gop READ: Secretary Price's Letter of Support for the AHCA HERE LEARN: How Obamacare has hurt Americans of all walks of life HERE ICYMI: Brady & WaldenWall Street Journal Op-ed on the American Health Care Act HERE PERMALINK
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare through a budget process known as reconciliation. The legislation, part of House Republicans’ American Health Care Act, delivers relief from Obamacare’s taxes and mandates and advances policies proposed by President Trump to enhance and expand health savings accounts and provide tax credits to help Americans access quality, affordable health care. Upon releasing the legislation, Chairman Brady said: “Today House Republicans are answering President Trump’s call to action with legislation to repeal this failing law and help ensure workers and families in Texas and across the country have access to health care that’s tailored to their needs—not health care that’s dictated by Washington. “Seven years ago, Obamacare put Washington in control of Americans’ health care. And for seven years, Washington has been failing to deliver results. Families can’t afford their premiums, patients can’t visit the doctor they like, and fewer insurers are offering coverage options every day. With President Trump, House Republicans are taking a stand. “Our legislation transfers power from Washington back to the American people. We dismantle Obamacare’s damaging taxes and mandates so states can deliver quality, affordable options based on what their patient populations need, and workers and families can have the freedom and flexibility to make their own health care choices. “I’m proud to be moving this important legislation forward with my colleagues and look forward to delivering on our promises to the American people.” The Ways and Means Committee has scheduled a markup of this legislation on Wednesday, March 8, at 10:30 a.m., in room 1100 of the Longworth House Office Building. BACKGROUND: More than eight months ago, House Republicans unveiled A Better Way, our vision for repealing Obamacare and replacing it with a patient-centered, 21st century health care system. On January 13, the House passed a budget resolution to begin turning that vision into legislation through reconciliation—a process that allows legislation to be passed with a simple majority in the Senate and quickly signed into law. The budget resolution outlined specific instructions for the Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce Committees—the primary Committees with jurisdiction over health care—to draft legislative recommendations that the Budget Committee could compile into one reconciliation package. When combined with the legislation released by Energy and Commerce, the American Health Care Act is expected to meet those instructions. Specifically, the Ways and Means legislation: Dismantles Obamacare taxes and mandates—including the individual and employer mandate penalties and taxes on prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, health insurance premiums, and medical devices. Empowers individuals and families to spend their health care dollars the way they want and need by enhancing and expanding Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). Helps Americans access affordable, quality health care by providing a monthly tax credit to individuals and families who don’t receive insurance through work or a government program. ONLINE NOW: Read the full text of the American Health Care Act HERE CLICK HERE to read the legislative recommendations from the Ways and Means Committee. CLICK HERE to read a two-page summary of the American Health Care Act. CLICK HERE to read a section-by-section of the Ways and Means legislation. Permalink
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Former Texas Governor Rick Perry has just been confirmed by the Senate as Secretary of the Department of Energy. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: "Today is truly a day to celebrate in Texas! Former Texas Governor Rick Perry will champion energy for economic prosperity. Texas is the energy capital of our nation, and Rick Perry’s experience and knowledge of that industry will serve him well. I look forward to working with Governor Perry in Washington, whether it’s fighting for smart energy production or maintaining our nuclear deterrent capabilities.” PERMALINK
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement after President Trump’s Address to a Joint Session of Congress: I applaud the President's message last night. He sent a clear message to unite Americans across our nation and dared to build a better future for us all. True to his promises, President Trump has acted swiftly to slash job-killing regulations that hurt our local businesses, lessen the economic harm of Obamacare, improve our border security and prevent foreign terrorist travelers from entering the United States. I’m honored to be leading the fight to fix our broken tax code and repeal and replace Obamacare with what works for patients, not Washington bureaucrats. These are bold changes to get America back on track and I'm excited to work with him to help Texans and all Americans. WATCH: Click the below play button to watch his official reaction, or CLICK HERE. LISTEN: CLICK HERE to listen to Congressman Kevin Brady's interview with Matt Patrick on KTRH. Permalink
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House passed Congressman Kevin Brady’s legislation to stop an Obama-era Labor Department regulation on unemployment insurance benefits. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement: The American people are sick and tired of unaccountable federal bureaucrats abusing their authority to undercut the will of Congress and the American people. This legislation places a check on blatant executive overreach that all but prohibits states from implementing important reform to help qualified unemployed workers in their quest to find a new job. WATCH: Congressman Kevin Brady's floor speech HERE BACKGROUND: House Joint Resolution 42, sponsored by Congressman Kevin Brady, disapproves and blocks a rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to drug testing of unemployment compensation applicants. In 2012, Congressman Brady helped lead the successful effort in Congress to repeal a 1960s-era ban on drug screening and testing of unemployment insurance applicants and allow states to conduct drug testing of people receiving unemployment benefits. Despite multiple agency meetings with Members of Congress, The Department of Labor’s rule fell well short of Congress’ intent, forcing Congress to intervene.
02.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. House of Representatives passed a set of bills designed to improve support for Veterans and their employers. Following their passage, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement: These bills reflect our continued commitment to veterans and the people who support them. This House and President Trump are dedicated to finding new ways to ensure veterans have the assistance they need and to honor those who put our veterans first. BACKGROUND - Bills passed in the House today include: WINGMAN Act (H.R. 512) Improves efficiency of Congressional caseworkers working on VA claims, meaning less waiting and more results. HIRE Vets Act (H.R. 244) Creates a Department of Labor “Medallion” program to publicly honor and celebrate employers that actively employ veterans. BRAVE Act (H.R. 974) Allows the Department of Veterans Affairs to give preference to contractors who hire veterans, and punish those who lie about hiring veterans.
02.03.2017	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement on President Trump's decision to impose new sanctions on Iran. Iran's latest ballistic missile test was a deliberate and alarming act. I support President Trump's swift action to impose sanctions and hold Iran accountable. As Iran continues to challenge us, and our ally Israel, with their missile program, America must respond with a loud and clear message that there will be consequences. New sanctions are a start in putting much-needed pressure on Iran.
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Just now, President Trump announced Judge Neil Gorsuch as his pick for Supreme Court Justice. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: President Trump made a very strong choice in Judge Gorsuch for the Supreme Court. He is a well-respected, pro-life conservative that believes in state power over federal power. Like Justice Scalia, Judge Gorsuch is a constitutional textualist who believes in upholding the fundamentals of our constitution. I also appreciate that he is young, so his decisions going forward can last for generations. WATCH - video remarks HERE NEXT STEP - A series of hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee, which then votes to send the nomination to the full United States Senate. Confirmation by the Senate then allows the President to formally appoint the candidate to the court.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, the House passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (H.R. 7). U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) proudly stood for life in speaking on the House floor and released the following statement: "As a dedicated pro-life conservative and a father, this bill has special meaning to me – it’s pro-life, pro-family, and pro-taxpayer. No taxpayer dollars will be used in any form to cover elective abortions. This permanent solution will apply government-wide – including to the Affordable Care Act." WATCH: Congressman Brady's floor speech HERE. BACKGROUND: H.R. 7 accomplishes three key pro-life goals: Ensures the Hyde Amendment and other current abortion funding prohibitions permanent and government-wide; Ensures that the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) faithfully conforms to the Hyde Amendment while Congress works to repeal and replace it; and finally, until a new plan year begins, the bill ensures full disclosure, transparency and the prominent display of the extent to which any health insurance plan on a government exchange funds abortion. Supporting Groups Include: · National Right to Life · March for Life · Family Research Council · Concerned Women for America · Susan B Anthony List · US Conference of Catholic Bishops · American United for Life (AUL) · Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission · Heritage Action · Priests for Life · Christian Medical Association · American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians and Gynecologists · The American College of Pediatricians · Faith & Freedom Coalition · The Radiance Foundation · Population Research Institute · CareNet · New Jersey Right to Life · Life Issues Institute · Liberty Counsel Action
01.23.2017	Kari’s Law will make 9-1-1 Work for Everyone WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the House passed Kari's Law Act 2017 (H.R. 582). This Brady sponsored legislation is designed to prevent another tragedy by requiring all Multi-Line Telephone Systems (MLTS) to have a default setting that allows people to directly dial 9-1-1, without the need for additional digits or prefix. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: I am honored to support this bill, in memory of Kari Hunt, so that everyone calling from anywhere in the U.S can easily dial 9-1-1 for help. No one, especially someone’s child, should ever be unable to dial 9-1-1 to save a loved one’s life. BACKGROUND: In December 2013, Kari Hunt was killed in a motel room in Texas. Her daughter repeatedly attempted to dial 9-1-1 from the motel room, but was unable to reach emergency responders because the motel’s MLTS required users to dial “9” to reach an outside line. While many hotels and office buildings have begun to make this change to their systems voluntarily, there is no uniform requirement that every MLTS be capable of directly dialing 9-1-1. /news/email/show.aspx?ID=GKZYR5TW676T4
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House passed H.R. 21, the Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017, a bill designed to provide greater congressional oversight of burdensome regulations issued during the final days of a president’s term. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement: “This bill gives Congress the power to stop the rush of midnight regulations by the Obama administration, which can reach into a third term without any accountability. I encourage the Senate to act on this important bill as soon as possible." Background - The term “Midnight Rules” refers to the posting of regulations, often high-cost or politically-driven in the final days of a President’s administration. Currently, the Congressional Review Act (CRA) allows Congress to only disapprove of new regulations one at a time. The Midnight Rules Relief Act would allow Congress to disapprove multiple midnight rulings in one resolution.
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Cross-Border Trade Enhancement Act of 2016. This bipartisan legislation authorizes the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to negotiate alternative financing arrangements for certain services and the construction and maintenance of infrastructure at land ports of entry. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement: “The bill is a solution to help Customs and Border Protection enforce our trade laws, keep our borders secure, support the flow of legitimate trade through our ports of entry, and administer our enforcement laws. I’ve been working with Sen. Cornyn to get this across the finish line so that CBP can receive the resources it needs minus the bureaucracy.” Bill authorizes the Customs and Border Protection to: enter into cost-sharing or compensation agreements with persons for the construction or maintenance of a new or existing CBP or GSA facility or other infrastructure at a land border port of entry; or accept donations from persons of real or personal property (including money) or nonpersonal services for use in the construction or maintenance of such facilities or infrastructure.
12.02.2016	Safeguarding America For Immediate Release December 2, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. House of Representatives passed the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which funds our troops and helps keep Americans safe. The 2017 NDAA provides a firm foundation from which the Trump administration can start restoring our Armed Forces, support our troops and protect our homeland. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement: “Fully funding the men and women who sacrifice for our security is my number one constitutional responsibility. I look forward to working with President-elect Donald Trump to rebuild our military and give our troops the support they need to protect our nation. ” The 2017 NDAA: · Provides $619 billion in funding towards ensuring America’s military is fully capable to defend our nation, and that our men and women in uniform have the tools necessary to carry out their missions. · Provides a 2.1 percent troop pay increase. · Ends the drawdown and increases the end strength of the United States Armed Forces. · Prohibits transferring any Guantanamo Bay detainees to American soil.
12.02.2016	Brady Gavels into Second Year as Chair Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) was unanimously re-elected to serve as Chairman of the House Ways & Means Committee for the 115th Congress. Chairman Brady issued the following statement: “I’m honored and thrilled to be re-elected to serve as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. Most importantly, as Chairman I can lead and shape major policies that can help improve the lives of all Texans, issues I have worked a lifetime on. Our work is about to get even more exciting with President-elect Trump in the White House. Together, we will have an unprecedented opportunity to grow our economy, create jobs and cut red tape in Washington. Our first two priorities are to pass bold pro-growth tax reform and finally repeal and replace Obamacare. After eight years of the Obama Administration, it’s finally time to solve some real problems and I am ready as the Chairman of Ways and Means.” Background: The Committee on Ways and Means is the oldest committee of the United States Congress, and is the chief tax-writing committee in the House of Representatives. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is the third Texan to ever serve as Chairman of this powerfully influential committee after Chairman Roger Q. Mills (1887-1889) and Chairman Bill Archer (1995-2001).
11.30.2016	U.S. House Spotlight Shines on Veterans Washington, D.C. – With today’s vote, the U.S. House of Representatives has passed seven House bills this week to assist Veterans with jobs, education needs, health benefits, processing VA claims, Health Savings Accounts and more. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) issued the following statement: “After our annual Veterans Resource Fair I boarded a plane for Washington, DC to vote on behalf of my heroes. I’m proud that including today’s bill, over 55 bills devoted to helping our veterans have passed the House. I look forward to working with the new administration to continue to honor and assist our veterans.” Background: Bills passed in the House include: · H.R. 5458, the TRICARE Choice Act of 2016 · H.R. 5166, the WINGMAN Act · H.R. 5046, the Protecting Veterans’ Educational Choice Act of 2016 · H.R. 3286, the HIRE Vets Act · H.R. 5600, the No Hero Left Untreated Act · H.R. 4757, the Amend title 38, United States Code · H.R. 6323, naming the Tibor Rubin VA Medical Center
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. House passed the Midnight Rules Relief Act [H.R. 5982], providing greater congressional oversight of any onerous regulations issued during the final days of a president’s term. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08) released the following statement: “This bill will prevent President Obama from forcing through any burdensome and costly, last minute regulations before leaving office." BACKGROUND – The term “Midnight Rules” refers to regulations that are often pushed through in the final days of a President’s administration. Currently, the Congressional Review Act (CRA) allows Congress to only disapprove new regulations one at a time. The Midnight Rules Relief Act would allow Congress to disapprove multiple midnight rulings in one resolution.
10.27.2016	U.S. Congressman Brady, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and leader of the House GOP Better Way effort to reform America's broken tax code, announces a new national video on the tax reform plan. "This is not Washington's tax code, it belongs to the American people. Taxpayers ought to have a real say in the way you are taxed. We invite you to view this video, come to our website to learn more about our "Built for Growth” tax reform plan, and speak up," said Brady. House Republicans have developed the first consensus GOP tax reform plan in 30 years, and are planning to bring a simpler, fairer and flatter tax reform plan to the House floor for a vote in 2017. CLICK HERE to watch video. SHARE on Facebook RE-TWEET on Twitter
09.21.2016	“DHS must begin using the modern digital fingerprint tools necessary to ensure that those seeking to live and work in America are fully screened. As long as terrorists and criminals use 21st Century technology to do us harm, relying on 20th Century technology to stop them just won’t cut it. ” share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady joined forces with U.S. Representative Martha McSally, a retired U.S. Air Force Colonel and combat pilot, to introduce The IDENT Fingerprint Digitization Completion Act. This bill is in response to a recent Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Inspector General report that found more than 800 people using fraudulent identification information were mistakenly granted citizenship because paper-based fingerprint records were missing from government databases. “DHS must begin using the modern digital fingerprint tools necessary to ensure that those seeking to live and work in America are fully screened. As long as terrorists and criminals use 21st Century technology to do us harm, relying on 20th Century technology to stop them just won’t cut it. ” Background: H.R. 6087, the IDENT Fingerprint Digitization Completion Act, demands DHS digitize the nearly 150,000 fingerprint cards of individuals under deportation orders prior to 2008 within 90 days. A recent report shows 858 individuals with final deportation orders were granted citizenship using false names or birth dates. CNN reports that number is actually in excess of 1,800. Some of these individuals were from countries with high terror threat concerns and several received credentials to work in secure positions at ports and airports facilities. The full bill text can be found HERE.
09.07.2016	After four years of White House delay in implementing a 2012 law allowing states to drug test applicants for federal unemployment payments, today House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas introduced H.R. 5945, the Ready to Work Act of 2016. The bill fully implements the bi-partisan 2012 law which overturned a 1960’s era Department of Labor ban against states drug testing unemployment applicants. share: f t After four years of White House delay in implementing a 2012 law allowing states to drug test applicants for federal unemployment payments, today House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas introduced H.R. 5945, the Ready to Work Act of 2016. The bill fully implements the bi-partisan 2012 law which overturned a 1960’s era Department of Labor ban against states drug testing unemployment applicants. The legislation ensures that states would be allowed, but not required, to test unemployment applicants who lost their jobs due to drug use or are seeking a new job that generally requires new employees to pass a drug test. States would also be allowed to design programs to help unemployed applicants overcome their drug use issues to be ready for work. A survey by the Society for Human Resource Management estimates that more than half of all businesses drug test all their employees. “The White House reneged on their responsibility to implement the law as Congress intended, throwing up roadblocks, delays and obstructive regulations for the past four years to guarantee states like Texas could not screen and test for drugs,” said Brady. “This is a common-sense measure to ensure unemployed workers are ready and available to work. If you are unable or unwilling to pass a basic drug test for a job that requires one, then you suffer, your family suffers and so do the businesses looking for good workers.” Background: In 2012, Congress passed and President Obama signed the bipartisan Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act, which included an important policy allowing (but not requiring) states to test UI applicants who either (1) lost their job due to drug use, or (2) are seeking a new job that generally requires new employees to pass a drug test. In August of this year, over four years after the drug testing provision was enacted, DOL issued its final rule, which fell significantly short of achieving the intended purpose of the law, effectively preventing states from implementing this important policy. The Ready to Work Act of 2016 provides relief from the final DOL rule so that states—not the federal government—can determine how to administer UI benefits and help unemployed Americans return to work. The following members of the Committee on Ways and Means joined Chairman Brady in introducing the “Ready to Work Act of 2016”: U.S. Reps. Sam Johnson (TX-03), Peter Roskam (IL-06), Charles Boustany (LA-03), Tom Price (GA-06), Tom Reed (NY-23), Mike Kelly (PA-03), George Holding (NC-13), Adrian Smith (NE-03), Jason Smith (MO-08), and Congressman Tom Rice (SC-07). CLICK HERE for Full Text of H.R. 5945 CLICK HERE to watch Chairman Brady’s opening statement at today’s subcommittee hearing on Unemployment Insurance.
08.09.2016	“The House approved a $1.1 billion agreement but Senate Democrats refuse to approve the funding. Why? Because there is no earmarks for Planned Parenthood, the nation’s largest abortion provider. The Obama White House has also failed to quickly distribute available funding to fight the virus. This is outrageous.” share: f t On August 5, 2016, the Republican Texas delegation sent a letter to President Obama demanding answers to the administration’s slow response to fight Zika. The devastating virus has now spread to America with its risk of death and birth defects. Coastal Texas “is at equal risk to Florida” says experts at Texas Children’s Hospital. But the White House and Senate Democrats continue to stall aid by playing political games with the lives of all Americans, especially mothers and babies. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady called out the White House and Senate Democrats over their Zika failures. “The House approved a $1.1 billion agreement but Senate Democrats refuse to approve the funding. Why? Because there is no earmarks for Planned Parenthood, the nation’s largest abortion provider. The Obama White House has also failed to quickly distribute available funding to fight the virus. This is outrageous.” Background: The Zika virus causes devastating birth defects and hundreds of expectant mothers across the Gulf coast have tested positive. Four months ago, the Obama Administration used existing legal authorities to repurpose $589 million of available funds for Zika response. Reports show that a majority of those funds still have yet to be allocated for necessary Zika prevention, including vaccine and treatment development. Congressman Brady has joined Texas Senator John Cornyn in a letter to the White House asking specific questions about the Administration’s recklessly slow Zika response. CLICK HERE for the delegation letter.
07.21.2016	"Americans want a fighter and they want real change. Tonight, Donald Trump made it clear he's going to fight to make our communities safe again and our nation strong again. As chairman of the Ways & Means Committee, I look forward to working with him and Vice President Mike Pence in the first 100 days of the new presidency to fix this broken tax code and repeal and replace ObamaCare. House Republicans already have detailed, proven "Better Way" solutions teed up and we are ready." share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement about the Republican nomination acceptance speech of Donald J. Trump: "Americans want a fighter and they want real change. Tonight, Donald Trump made it clear he's going to fight to make our communities safe again and our nation strong again. As chairman of the Ways & Means Committee, I look forward to working with him and Vice President Mike Pence in the first 100 days of the new presidency to fix this broken tax code and repeal and replace ObamaCare. House Republicans already have detailed, proven "Better Way" solutions teed up and we are ready."
07.18.2016	This afternoon the Surface Transportation Board (STB) officially declined to get involved in the Texas Central Railway (TCR) proposed Dallas-to-Houston High-Speed Rail project. share: f t This afternoon the Surface Transportation Board (STB) officially declined to get involved in the Texas Central Railway (TCR) proposed Dallas-to-Houston High-Speed Rail project. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady who is leading the congressional fight with Texans Against High-Speed Rail and local and elected officials released the following statement on the long-awaited announcement: “This is the answer we fought for. This is the first victory in a long battle to ensure that Texas, not Washington, decides the fate of a project hurting our rural communities and landowners. I truly appreciate the efforts of our state and local officials and Texans Against High-Speed Rail who are working so diligently to protect Texans’ property rights.” Background: Today’s decision by the STB indicates that the proposed approximately 240-mile high-speed rail line between Dallas and Houston is an intrastate project outside of the Board’s jurisdiction -- effectively recognizing that the project is a state project. Congressman Brady wrote the STB in April opposing any federal involvement in the highly controversial project because the sole proposed route divides rural counties in the 8th Congressional District including Grimes, Madison and Leon counties. As our county commissioners, state legislators, and property owners have stated correctly, this route fractures our rural lifestyle without any direct economic or transportation benefits to our communities.
07.13.2016	No American should be discriminated against for their pro-life stance or be forced to participate in the brutal act of abortion. share: f t No American should be discriminated against for their pro-life stance or be forced to participate in the brutal act of abortion. Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 304, the Conscience Protection Act. This bill, among other measures, reaffirms protections found in the Weldon amendment that protects states and localities receiving federal funds from discrimination. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is a leading proponent and co-sponsor of this legislation, and issued the following statement: “It’s hard to imagine Americans want an all-powerful federal government forcing nurses, doctors, hospitals or insurance plans to participate in abortions against their conscience. If we lose conscience protections, we’ve forgotten that preserving life is why healthcare exists in the first place.” Background: S. 304 amends the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) to stop the Federal, State, and Local Governments that receive Federal tax dollars from penalizing or discriminating a health care provider that does not participate in abortion. The bill does not prevent health care providers from voluntary participation. However, the current federal law, under the Hyde amendment, prohibits tax dollars from funding abortions. Throughout the country, abortion coercion has become a growing problem for our local nurses. These stories range from long time practicing nurses to students seeking entrance to nursing programs. For example, The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey put a policy in place requiring nurses to undergo training to facilitate abortions or risk losing their jobs. New York area nurse Cathy DeCarlo was forced to assist in dismembering a fetus. Nassau University Medical Center suspended nine nurses for refusing to take part in an abortion. Two women applying to nursing residency programs at Vanderbilt University were told they would have to agree to perform abortions to be accepted. Our medical community has the right to choose where their conscious collides with the gruesome practice of abortion. This bill reaffirms their rights to choose life. CLICK HERE for a list of groups that support the Conscience Protection Act.
07.12.2016	“My constituents are tired of unelected federal bureaucrats writing laws that affect their lives and livelihood under the guise of regulation. This behavior is a threat to our freedom. This bill restores the constitutional checks and balances by reining in federal agencies and restoring Congress’s preeminent role in writing our nation’s laws." share: f t For too long federal agencies have exceeded the scope of their authority and adversely impacted American families and businesses. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement following the passage of H.R. 4768: The Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) of 2016. “My constituents are tired of unelected federal bureaucrats writing laws that affect their lives and livelihood under the guise of regulation. This behavior is a threat to our freedom. This bill restores the constitutional checks and balances by reining in federal agencies and restoring Congress’s preeminent role in writing our nation’s laws." BACKGROUND: Texas Congressman John Ratcliffe’s bill, H.R. 4768, overturns a 1984 U.S. Supreme Court decision that courts should, in many cases, defer to administrative agencies’ interpretations of “ambiguous” statutes written by Congress. Instead of further emboldening federal bureaucracy, the bill amends the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) to require courts conduct a “de novo” – or new – review of all relevant questions of law. Leaving such interpretation up to federal bureaucrats has led to attempts to regulate everything from light bulbs to ponds and ditches. The Senate version of the bill was introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Senator Mike Lee (R-Utah), and is co-sponsored by both Texas senators.
07.08.2016	That anyone would take a moment where Americans joined together in peace to savagely attack those who have sworn to protect and serve is just sickening. Our prayers are with the officers, their families and all Texans who believe in the sanctity of life and who are grieving today with our men and women in blue. share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement this morning following the tragic sniper deaths of 5 Dallas officers. “I'm heartbroken by the news out of Dallas. That anyone would take a moment where Americans joined together in peace to savagely attack those who have sworn to protect and serve is just sickening. Our prayers are with the officers, their families and all Texans who believe in the sanctity of life and who are grieving today with our men and women in blue.”
07.05.2016	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the Federal Bureau of Investigation laid out a detailed and convincing case against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then declined to pursue federal charges. share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the Federal Bureau of Investigation laid out a detailed and convincing case against former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, then declined to pursue federal charges. “FBI Director Comey confirmed today what most Americans already knew, that this so-called investigation had a pre-determined outcome to clear Hillary Clinton no matter how damning the case against her. Mrs. Clinton wasn’t merely “extremely careless” in how she dealt with our nation’s secrets, she was knowingly reckless. The FBI laid out a strong and convincing rationale for an indictment, then sheepishly bowed to political pressure. No wonder the Clintons believe they are above the law, with the Obama Administration they are.” Background: Nearly two dozen emails on the Clinton’s server have been ruled as top secret and many have been ruled to contain classified material. The FBI also presumed foreign intelligence has likely gained access to her personal email account. The presumptive Presidential nominee for the Democrat party met with the FBI over the weekend after her husband, former President Bill Clinton, met privately with Attorney General Loretta Lynch.
07.01.2016	Local financial experts are concerned a new regulation from the Department of Labor will raise costs on American families and small businesses while limiting their access to sound financial advice to grow their retirement accounts. The group met with U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady whose committee, Ways & Means, is helping lead the fight against the so-called ‘fiduciary rule” regulation. Republicans in Congress acted to overturn the vast, complicated new regulation, but a vote to override President Obama’s veto of a bill blocking the new rule recently fell short. share: f t Local financial experts are concerned a new regulation from the Department of Labor will raise costs on American families and small businesses while limiting their access to sound financial advice to grow their retirement accounts. The group met with U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady whose committee, Ways & Means, is helping lead the fight against the so-called ‘fiduciary rule' regulation. Republicans in Congress acted to overturn the vast, complicated new regulation, but a vote to override President Obama’s veto of a bill blocking the new rule recently fell short. Local financial advisors fear the new regulation will impact families with small to modest savings, as well as discourage small businesses from setting up savings plans for their workers. “This poorly written rule is convoluted, contradictory, and confusing,” said Champe Miller of Miller Financial Services in Conroe. “Not only will this rule cost families more to get advice, it’s going to flood our court system when it forces disputes out of arbitration and mediation and into litigation As it was put by one financial advisor, “I think everybody here supports a fiduciary standard of conduct, that’s not an issue, but the way the rule is written it’s going to raise costs. It’s going to take away choice from investors on how they pay for their services and it’s also going to limit financial advice to lower- and middle-income investors.” The new Labor Department rule is slated to take effect next April. Local financial advisors are concerned the end result could be that businesses may not want to offer 401K plans and other such retirement investment options to their workers. The additional risk may also mean higher minimum amounts for families to get into certain investment plans. As one expert said, “half the people currently in 401k’s will not have that option anymore.” “The Obama regulators are rushing to impose as many new, sweeping regulations as they can before the clock strikes midnight on the president’s last days,” observed Congressman Brady, whose committee approved legislation to tackle the issue in a way that protects savers while driving bad actors out of the industry. “We will keep fighting these types of regulations because they hurt middle class families and small businesses.”
06.28.2016	“Today’s report confirms then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the Obama White House failed to understand Libyan extremism and our diplomats’ security needs before, during and after the attack. Americans should be outraged at the failure to send military help to Benghazi, at this White House’s continuous obstruction of the investigations and that only one --of the many terrorists-- involved has been brought to justice.” share: f t Today, the House Select Committee on Benghazi responsible for investigating the 2012 terrorist attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi, Libya, released its final report. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement: “Today’s report confirms then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and the Obama White House failed to understand Libyan extremism and our diplomats’ security needs before, during and after the attack. Americans should be outraged at the failure to send military help to Benghazi, at this White House’s continuous obstruction of the investigations and that only one --of the many terrorists-- involved has been brought to justice.” Background: The final Benghazi report confirms no military assets were en route to Benghazi several hours after the attacks began and after four Americans had already been killed. For three hours, the Fleet Antiterrorism Security Team (FAST) sat on a plane in Rota, Spain. During the time window our Ambassador was missing, a two-hour White House meeting was held where the now debunked YouTube video was discussed. To reach their conclusion that the Obama administration, and then-Secretary of State Clinton, failed in their duty to protect our diplomats, the Select Committee interviewed 81 new witnesses and reviewed 75,000 new pages of documents for their 800 plus page report.
06.27.2016	“This decision was driven not by the Constitution, but by the left-leaning ideological bias of the supreme court. Why else would they reject higher medical standards and women's safety for lower, less safe health care for women? This is a sad day for Texas and for those who fight to protect the sanctity of life." share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court overturned a Texas law designed to protect the health of women seeking abortions. “This decision was driven not by the Constitution, but by the left-leaning ideological bias of the Supreme Court. Why else would they reject higher medical standards and women's safety for lower, less safe health care for women? This is a sad day for Texas and for those who fight to protect the sanctity of life." Background: Argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on March 2, 2016, Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt challenged two provisions of a Texas law requiring doctors who perform abortions to have privileges to admit patients at a nearby hospital and that abortion clinics meet health and safety standards comparable to outpatient surgical centers. These common sense provisions were passed into law in Texas to protect women.
06.23.2016	“The Constitution won today, as did Texas. Every court in the nation has now sided with the Congress sending the strong message that under the Constitution, Presidents don’t write laws through executive action – only Congress writes laws. share: f t Today, the U.S. Supreme Court dealt a blow to the White House by affirming the checks and balances in the U.S. Constitution. In upholding the lower court ruling in U.S. v. Texas, the high court ended the President’s executive amnesty plan. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement: “The Constitution won today, as did Texas. Every court in the nation has now sided with the Congress sending the strong message that under the Constitution, Presidents don’t write laws through executive action – only Congress writes laws. I will continue fighting for the constitution and the rule of law and against this President’s executive overreach, including creating amnesty.” Background: The U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling effectively blocks the White House from being able to implement the executive amnesty program the President announced just after the 2014 election. The program has been repeatedly blocked in federal court and the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals.
06.16.2016	“As we saw last weekend in Orlando, the world remains a dangerous place and America must be prepared to fight back against radical Islam, and others who would do us harm, with America’s full might and force,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives today approved two measures funding the U.S. national defense and countering the rise of terrorism. The bills support strong military readiness to defeat terrorism, new tools to stop terrorist recruitment and better coordination with local law enforcement. “As we saw last weekend in Orlando, the world remains a dangerous place and America must be prepared to fight back against radical Islam, and others who would do us harm, with America’s full might and force,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “Today I and my House colleagues took another strong stand for our men and women in uniform and against terrorism by providing our military and our local law enforcement with the tools they need to deter or defeat those who would do us harm. When it comes to backing our military and law enforcement in our fight against those who would attempt to destroy our way of life, my vote is always yes.” Background: The Countering Terrorist Radicalization Act is comprised of three strong counterterrorism bills: H.R. 4401, the ALERT Act of 2016; H.R. 4820, the Combating Terrorist Recruitment Act of 2016 and H.R. 4407, the Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2016. All three had previously passed the House, but languished in the Senate. These bills are designed to amplify and coordinate with local law enforcement efforts to root out terrorists in our communities, stop terrorist recruitment and put a Counterterrorism Advisory Board in place to coordinate and integrate Homeland Security intelligence, activities and policy. The FY2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Act (H.R. 5293) supports strong military readiness, raises troop pay 2.1% and funds military operations to defeat – not contain – terrorists. The $575 billion defense spending bill rejects the Obama White House’s reductions in troop strength by funding an additional 28,715 active forces and 25,000 Selected Reserve forces as well as: • $120.8 billion for weapons, platforms, and resources necessary for military operations. o Including 72 UH-60 Blackhawks, 27 CH-57 Chinooks, 85 Patriot missiles, 16 F/A-18E/F Super Hornets, 74 F-35s, 15 Navy ships • $209.2 billion for operations and maintenance, with additional funding to increase readiness, restoration and modernization, battle training, flight time, and depot maintenance. • Supports our overseas operations to combat Islamic extremists: Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) assets; and the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund • Includes assistance for Jordan, Israel, Iraq, Kurdish forces, and Counter-ISIL programs. o $332 million for the Israeli Cooperative Programs, $292 million above the request to support the missile defense programs • Enhances our allies’ deterrence against Russian aggression with the European Reassurance Initiative • Critical funding to research traumatic brain injury, prevent sexual assault, and protect service members, DOD civilians, and their families from the Zika epidemic. • A prohibition on transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, prevents construction of facilities in the U.S., and prohibits closure or transfer of Naval Station Guantanamo Bay.
06.14.2016	“No American should fear their support of non-profit organizations will lead to targeting or harassment by the IRS. The First Amendment is the foundation of our liberties, and we have the right to criticize our nation and fight for our beliefs without fearing government retaliation,” said U.S. Representative Kevin Brady, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee who successfully passed legislation banning the IRS from targeting Americans. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives approved a Ways and Means Committee-led bill stopping the IRS from targeting donors to tax-exempt organizations. The measure, the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act (H.R. 5053), passed 240-182. “No American should fear their support of non-profit organizations will lead to targeting or harassment by the IRS. The First Amendment is the foundation of our liberties, and we have the right to criticize our nation and fight for our beliefs without fearing government retaliation,” said U.S. Representative Kevin Brady, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee who successfully passed legislation banning the IRS from targeting Americans. Judson Phillips, founder of Tea Party Nation who worked with House conservatives to advance the bill, said “The IRS is a rogue agency, at war with the Constitution and the American people. Every time Congress passes a bill like this, Congress stands with the American people, against governmental tyranny. Chairman Brady, Chairman Roskam and the other Members who stood against the IRS have stood with the American people. We owe these Members a debt of gratitude. “ Background: H.R. 5053 would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from collecting the identity of donors who contribute to tax-exempt organizations. Under this legislation, a tax-exempt organization would be required to report only information on donors who contribute $5,000 or more during a single tax year and who are either an officer or director of the organization or one of its five highest paid employees. This information would be excluded from public disclosure. Current law requires section 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organizations to report information on substantial donors. The IRS defines a substantial donor as a contributor who gives $5,000 or more to an organization in a calendar year. While the IRS does not make this information public, there have been instances where IRS employees have improperly accessed and released the Schedule B donor list. This bill addresses the concern that the IRS is collecting sensitive information about donors who contribute to tax-exempt organizations. Although the IRS is required by law to maintain the confidentiality of this information, there have been widely reported instances in which the information was released to third parties. By limiting the contribution information tax-exempt organizations report to the IRS, the provision will protect taxpayers’ identities and help prevent inappropriate political targeting by the IRS. House Committee on Ways and Means HR 5053 Ways and Means Hearing on HR 5053 List of Organizations Supporting H.R. 5053: 60 Plus Association Able Americans Advance Arkansas Institute Alabama Policy Institute American Center for Law and Justice American Commitment The American Conservative Union American Council for Capitol Formation American Dream Foundation American Values Advertising, Inc. Americans for Less Regulation Americans for Limited Government Americans for Competitive Enterprise Americans for Prosperity Americans for Tax Reform Born Free American LLC Campaign for Liberty CapStand Council for Policy and Ethics Cause of Action Institute Center for Freedom and Prosperity Center for Individual Freedom Center for Worker Freedom Citizens’ Council for Health Freedom Citizens United Coalition for a Strong America Commonwealth Foundation Compact for America Educational Foundation, Inc. Competitive Enterprise Institute Concerned Veterans for America Conservative Legal Defense and Education Fund Coolidge Reagan Foundation Council for Citizens Against Government Waste Digital Liberty Family Policy Alliance Free Speech Coalition Freedom Alliance Freedom Foundation of Minnesota Freedom Partners Chamber of Commerce FreedomWorks Frontiers of Freedom Generation Opportunity Grassroot Hawaii Action Heritage Action for America High Frontier Hispanic Leadership Fund Idaho Freedom Foundation Illinois Policy Action Independent Women's Forum Independent Women's Voice Institute for Energy Research Institute for Liberty Institute for Policy Innovation The James Madison Institute Jeffersonian Project Kansas Policy Institute The Leadership Institute Less Government Let Freedom Ring Libertas Institute Liberty Messenger USA The LIBRE Initiative The Madison Coalition Main Street Growth Project Media Research Center Movie to Movement National Federation of Republican Assemblies National Pro-Life Alliance National Rifle Association National Taxpayers Union Next Generation Freedom Fund One Day In America Property Rights Alliance Put Growth First R Street Institute Reaching America Republican Jewish Coalition Rio Grande Foundation Rule of Law Defense Fund Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council State Policy Network Taxpayers Protection Alliance Tea Party Nation Tea Party Patriots Texas Public Policy Foundation Tradition, Family, Property, Inc. Traditional Values Coalition United States Justice Foundation Vote America Now The Weyrich Lunch Women for Democracy in America, Inc.
06.11.2016	Federal Recovery assistance is on the way for the families and businesses hurt by the devastating storms and flooding surrounding the Memorial Day weekend. Today, the president signed off on Governor Abbott’s request for a major disaster declaration for Texas after U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady led a delegation effort pushing for help for storm weary Texans. share: f t Federal Recovery assistance is on the way for the families and businesses hurt by the devastating storms and flooding surrounding the Memorial Day weekend. Today, the president signed off on Governor Abbott’s request for a major disaster declaration for Texas after U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady led a delegation effort pushing for help for storm weary Texans. “Families and businesses in Grimes, Montgomery and San Jacinto counties had barely caught their breath after the tax day flooding when another extended run of storms dumped up to 20 inches of rain across Texas. And along with the Texas delegation and local officials, I never stopped pushing to get this declaration in place.” This declaration means 12 Texas counties, including three in District 8, will be eligible for Individual Assistance, Public Assistance and Hazard Mitigation funding. The Governor has also reserved the right to add more counties to his request as the damage assessments come in. Background: Texas has weathered six major disasters in just the last 13 months. 151 of Texas 254 have received at least one disaster declaration. According to Governor Abbott’s office, the 19.7 million people living in a Texas county hit by disaster is greater than the populations of 48 states. Delegation letter to President Obama
06.09.2016	“I voted to prevent a bailout by the American taxpayers by giving this U.S. territory a blueprint to fix their financial crisis. Not a single tax dollar is spent in this bill. This is a conservative approach that forces Puerto Rico to balance its budget, enact serious spending reforms, while exempting the island from federal minimum wage rules and reams of red tape. Congress also puts an independent oversight board in place to provide the tough financial discipline that Puerto Rico needs.” share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed HR 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability (PROMESA) Act. Under the bill, no U.S. taxpayer dollars are being sent to the financially troubled territory, nor will the U.S. accept any of the debt of Puerto Rico. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement.. “I voted to prevent a bailout by the American taxpayers by giving this U.S. territory a blueprint to fix their financial crisis. Not a single tax dollar is spent in this bill. This is a conservative approach that forces Puerto Rico to balance its budget, enact serious spending reforms, while exempting the island from federal minimum wage rules and reams of red tape. Congress also puts an independent oversight board in place to provide the tough financial discipline that Puerto Rico needs.” Background: Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States, is facing a full scale economic collapse. The island is home to 3.5 million American citizens, but its economy has been shrinking for a decade. Unemployment is double the national average and the poverty rate is at 45 percent, including the majority of the island’s children. The government has amassed over $118 billion in debt in the form of bonds and unfunded pension liabilities. Puerto Rico has already defaulted on portions of its debt, including millions on May 2, 2016. On July 1st, the island is likely to default on an additional $2 billion. PROMESA · Establishes an Oversight Board – A strong and independent Oversight Board will oversee the development of fiscal plans for Puerto Rico, incorporate pro-growth reforms to ensure fiscal responsibility, balance the budget, and facilitate the Island's access to capital markets. · Provides for Debt Restructuring – Creditors can negotiate voluntary restructuring agreements through collective action clauses and avoid forced restructuring. The Oversight Board determines if debt restructuring is necessary after voluntary negotiations. Access to debt restructuring ensures debt is at a sustainable level and prevents a government bailout. · Infrastructure Revitalization – Puerto Rico’s infrastructure is outdated, energy costs are high, and development has been limited due to the fiscal crisis. Establishes a Revitalization Coordinator to identify projects that improve Puerto Rico’s infrastructure and energy development under an expedited review and permitting process. Additional Provisions - Allows Puerto Rico to reduce the minimum wage for workers under 25 years old, provides an exemption to the Department of Labor’s overtime rule, and creates a Congressional Task Force on Economic Growth. Links CBO Cost Estimate – “no significant net effect on the federal deficit” Americans for Tax Reform Citizens Against Government Waste
05.27.2016	“These torrential rains are causing more misery for homeowners and businesses, some who are still working to rebuild from the Tax Day floods. With the continued rain this may not be over, but an early assessment shows we will likely need Governor Abbott to declare another disaster so we can help to these families and communities.” ? share: f t Conroe, TX —U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is urging Texas Governor Greg Abbott to declare another major disaster for Texas counties impacted by last night’s storms. Brady, in contact with county officials from Harris, Grimes, Montgomery and Walker counties, said the new damage will require a second, separate declaration from the April 18th flooding. “These torrential rains are causing more misery for homeowners and businesses, some who are still working to rebuild from the Tax Day floods. With the continued rain this may not be over, but an early assessment shows we will likely need Governor Abbott to declare another disaster so we can help to these families and communities.” Background: Today, Congressman Brady sent a letter to Governor Abbott requesting that his office act as quickly as possible to determine the level of assistance needed. To read the full letter click here.
05.26.2016	“With America at war, leadership matters. Strong military leadership is essential. With these incoming cadets and midshipmen, our district has much to be proud of. I congratulate these exceptional young men and women on their appointments. They have shown the integrity and character our country seeks and we are honored by their desire to serve.” share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) is proud to announce that nine students from the 8th District of Texas have received military service academy appointments after being nominated by his office: “With America at war, leadership matters. Strong military leadership is essential. With these incoming cadets and midshipmen, our district has much to be proud of. I congratulate these exceptional young men and women on their appointments. They have shown the integrity and character our country seeks and we are honored by their desire to serve.” Our district is honored by the following distinguished service academy appointments: · United States Naval Academy at Annapolis: Travis Dill, CISD Academy of Science & Technology and Candace Gordon, Magnolia West High School · Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point: Seamus Sullivan, St. Thomas High School · United States Military Academy at West Point: Connor Binney, The Woodlands High School; Madeleine Easter, Montgomery High School; and Charles Wasaff, The Woodlands College Park High School · United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs: Vanessa Davila, Rosa de Jesus Cordero High School; Jose Figuera-Hernandez, Willis High School and Hunter Hayden, Klein Oak High School. The 8th Congressional District has a reputation for exceptional candidates and an extremely competitive selection process. In order to be offered an appointment to a service academy, candidates must be at least 17 and not yet 23 years of age by July 1 of the year of admission, a United States citizen, unmarried and a resident of Congressman Brady's district. Students interested in applying should speak with their local high school guidance counselor. Congressman Brady’s office coordinates with local high school students through these counselors and all students are interviewed by a board of distinguished community leaders. Students can also learn more about the process and download the application at /constituent-services/service-academy-nominations.htm by contacting Vita Swarers in the Huntsville district office at 936-439-9532
05.20.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on House passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill for FY 2017: “This bill is my commitment to take care of our veterans who faithfully served our country. It also ensures tax dollars are responsibly used so that our current service members have the resources they need to defeat our enemies.” Background: H.R. 4974 - The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, FY2017 provides discretionary funding to house, train, and equip military personnel, provide housing and services to military families, help maintain base infrastructure, and fund veterans’ benefits and programs.
05.18.2016	“Once again this White House has chosen government red tape over economic growth. Today’s overtime rule makes no sense for American businesses or American workers. Small and big businesses, nonprofits, local government and academic institutions will be forced to reduce hours and cut jobs to stay afloat. My colleagues and I are exploring all options to bring common sense back to Washington and stop America’s workforce from shouldering the punishing consequences of this ill-conceived rule.” Background: The U.S. Department of Labor's final overtime rule will double the salary threshold for overtime exemption, effective Dec. 1, 2016. The new salary test—$47,476 per year, or $913 per week—will be based on the 40th percentile of full-time salaried workers in the South, the lowest-income Census region. Currently, workers earning more than $23,660 per year are not eligible for time-and-a-half pay for hours beyond 40 in a week if they also perform certain executive, professional or administrative duties. The new rule leaves intact the current duties test. To view the full rule click here.
05.18.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), released the following statement on the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act, which funds the Department of Defense and America’s armed forces. “America is at war, yet the irresponsible Obama White House continues to dangerously hollow out our military. That is why I voted today to give our fighting men and women the best equipment they need to defend themselves and our country. This bill restores the strength and agility of our military forces, making them combat ready. As important, it provides the care and support they deserve when they return home.” Background: The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017 is the primary way Congress meets its most important constitutional obligation to “provide for the common defense.” It advances the vital funding and authorities that America’s military needs. To view the impact of our current readiness crisis click here. To read a summary of the bill click here.
05.17.2016	Washington, DC —Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the United States Supreme Court’s unanimous opinion to send the case Zubik v. Burwell back to lower courts to find a way to accommodate the Little Sisters so their religious rights would not be violated by the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive mandate. “This is an overdue constitutional victory for the Little Sisters of the Poor against the ObamaCare mandate. This country was founded on religious freedom and nothing the White House does should jeopardize that right.” Background: Today, the United States Supreme Court issued a unanimous opinion to send the case of Zubik v. Burwell back to the appeals court in in an effort to find modifications to the HHS mandate to eliminate any faith-based concerns “while still ensuring that the affected women receive contraceptive coverage seamlessly.” Moreover, the Little Sisters of the Poor will not face fines for not providing contraception coverage.
05.16.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady,(R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of three bills designed to strengthen the Department of Homeland Security in its fight against terrorism and protect the United States. “These bills represent important directives from Congress to the Department of Homeland Security to help strengthen the agency’s fight again terrorism. Whether it's cybersecurity risks or vetting foreigners entering the U.S., these bills are Congress’ commitment that we will continue to help protect Americans from the growing terrorist threats. Background: Today that house passed the following pills to strengthen the Department of Homeland Security: H.R. 4743 - National Cybersecurity Preparedness Consortium Act of 2016. Summary: This bill authorizes DHS to work with a consortium to support efforts to address cybersecurity risks and incidents. H.R. 4780 - Department of Homeland Security Strategy for International Programs Act. Summary: This bill requires DHS to create a comprehensive three-year strategy for the Departments international programs related to vetting and screening persons seeking to enter the United States. H.R. 4407 - Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2016. Summary: This bill establishes a counterterrorism advisory board within DHS to coordinate and integrate departmental intelligence, activities, and policy related to counterterrorism.
05.02.2016	Brady: This short term extension allows more than 300 local health care providers to continue to offer quality healthcare to our neediest populations in Texas share: f t The Woodlands, TX — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' decision to grant a 15-month temporary extension of Texas’ Medicaid 1115 waiver. “This short term extension allows more than 300 local health care providers to continue to offer quality healthcare to our neediest populations in Texas. While I am pleased that the state of Texas and the federal government were able to come to a short-term agreement, a longer-term agreement is still needed.” Background: In November, the Texas delegation sent a letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services requesting the Administration work with Texas to reach an agreement on a renewal of Texas’ Medicaid 1115 waiver for an additional five years. Section 1115 of the Social Security Act gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services the authority to approve experimental, pilot, or demonstration projects in the Medicaid and CHIP programs. The purpose of these demonstrations is to give states flexibility to design and improve their programs. The Texas Health and Human Services Commission received a waiver in 2011 that has allowed the state to expand Medicaid managed care and provide incentive payments for health care improvements, as well as direct more funding to hospitals that serve large numbers of uninsured patients. Texas’ five year demonstration waiver runs out in 2016.
04.28.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of the H.J. Res 88 which is a resolution that will block the Department of Labor’s misguided “fiduciary” rule and protects access to affordable retirement advice. "The Obama White House shouldn’t be in the business of picking and choosing financial advisors for hard working Americans. Once again, the House acted to stop the president from imposing new red tape on ordinary Americans trying to save for their families and retirement." Background: This joint resolution disapproves and nullifies a Department of Labor rule published on April 8, 2016, relating to the definition of the term "fiduciary" and the conflict of interest rule with respect to retirement investment advice. (The rule defines who is a fiduciary with respect to pension and retirement plans. Under current law, a person who provides investment advice has a fiduciary obligation that requires the person to provide advice in the sole interest of plan participants and beneficiaries. The rule changes the definition of "investment advice" to treat people who provide investment advice to pension and retirement plans for a fee or other compensation as fiduciaries in a wider array of advice relationships.)
04.22.2016	The Woodlands, TX —Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the Secretary Kerry’s signing of the Paris Climate Agreement. “Once again President Obama shoved his liberal climate agenda on the backs of hardworking Americans. This deal will raise energy prices and increase monthly bills for people already struggling thanks to this White House’s failed policies. Let me be clear – we don’t want this agreement and that is why I signed H.Con.Res 97 and will work to block funding for it.” Background: Today, Secretary Kerry signed the Paris Climate Agreement in which the Obama Administration has promised to spend billions of dollars to provide for green energy projects in other countries. This agreement has not been submitted to the Senate for its advice and consent as a treaty under Article II of the Constitution, and the Obama Administration has indicated it does plan to do so. Congressman Brady recently signed H.Con.Res 97 which states that any administration must submit the Paris agreement to the Senate for advice and consent; otherwise, Congress will use the power of the purse to block funding for any part of the agreement.
04.20.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) Released the following statement on the passage of the H.R. 4885, IRS Oversight While Eliminating Spending (OWES) Act of 2016 which requires the Internal Revenue Service to deposit fees for services in the Treasury’s general fund and prohibits its use without Congress’ approval. “The IRS charges hardworking taxpayers a fee for doing its job, it’s only right that taxpayers have a say in where those funds are spent. This common sense bill reaffirms that the IRS works for America’s taxpayers, not the other way around.” Background: IRS Oversight While Eliminating Spending (OWES) Act of 2016 requires the Internal Revenue Service to deposit fees for services in the general fund of the Treasury and prohibits the expenditure of such fees unless an appropriations Act provides for such expenditure.
04.20.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of the H.R. 1206, No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act, which prevents the IRS from hiring individuals who has a seriously delinquent tax debt. “The U.S. House has spoken; the IRS cannot hire anyone until it certifies none of its employees have serious tax debt. Our tax officials should be held to the same standard as the people they serve, no exception.” Background: This bill prohibits any federal officer or employer from extending an offer of employment in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to any individual until the IRS publicly issues a written certification that the IRS does not employ any individual who has a seriously delinquent tax debt. A seriously delinquent tax debt is an outstanding tax debt for which the IRS has filed a notice of lien in public records, excluding a tax debt: (1) that is being paid in a timely manner under an approved installment payment agreement or an offer-in-compromise, (2) for which a collection due process hearing has been requested or is pending, (3) for which a tax levy has been issued, or (4) with respect to which relief has been granted due to economic hardship.
04.14.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 4482, the Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act of 2016, and H.R. 4403, the Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act. Collectively, the bills require the Secretary of Homeland Security to submit a southwest border threat analysis, and develop an open-source software designed to screen travelers by checking law enforcement databases and terrorist watch lists. “As Texas continues to struggle with growing illegal immigration problems and our nation looks to prevent another terrorist attack on U.S. soil these bills hold President Obama and his appointed officials accountable for the safety of all Americans. It’s time this White House steps up to help secure our border and protect us from those who plan to inflict harm.” Background: H.R. 4482, The Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act of 2016, directs the Secretary of Homeland Security (DHS) to submit a southwest border threat analysis that includes an assessment of: · Terrorism and criminal threats posed by individuals and organized groups seeking to unlawfully enter the United States through the southwest border or seeking to exploit border vulnerabilities along such border; · Improvements needed at and between ports of entry along such border to prevent terrorists and instruments of terror from entering the United States; · Gaps in law, policy, cooperation between state, local, or tribal law enforcement, international agreements, or tribal agreements that hinder effective and efficient border security, counterterrorism, anti-human smuggling and trafficking efforts, and the flow of legitimate trade along such border; and · The current percentage of situational awareness and of operational control of U.S. borders achieved by DHS of the international land and maritime borders of the United States. H.R. 4403, Enhancing Overseas Traveler Vetting Act would authorize the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of State to develop open-source software that would be designed to screen travelers by checking law enforcement databases and terrorist watch lists. The software would be shared with foreign governments and multilateral organizations. The bill would require DHS and the Department of State, within 60 days of enactment, to submit to the Congress a plan to develop and share such software.
04.12.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on House passage of S. 2512,Adding Zika Virus to the FDA Priority Review Voucher Program Act which places the disease on an incentive program to develop products for treatment. “Zika poses a growing threat not only to Texas but to the global community. This common-sense legislation creates incentives to develop an effective treatment for this public health crisis so that we can better protect expecting mothers and newborns.” Background: S.2512, Adding Zika Virus to the FDA Priority Review Voucher Program Act, amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to add the Zika virus to the list of tropical diseases under the priority review voucher program, which awards a voucher to the sponsor of a new drug or biological product that is approved to prevent or treat a tropical disease. (A voucher entitles the holder to have a future new drug or biological product application acted upon by the Food and Drug Administration within six months.)
03.31.2016	The Woodlands, TX —Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on changes made to the FDA protocol for mifepristone to expand the use of the abortion drug. "Women struggling with the prospect of an unplanned pregnancy face difficult choices. My hope and prayer is they choose life. I and many Americans believe that life begins at conception so these new FDA regulations make terminating that young life easier and earlier while placing women at risk with their health. " Background: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) changed the labeling and procedures for mifepristone, the abortion pill also referred to as “RU-486” and “Mifeprex.” This drug was first approved at the end of the Clinton administration (September 2000) to abort unborn children up to 49 days into pregnancy (7 weeks) and required that mifepristone be taken under the supervision of a physician. A follow-up appointment was required before the second drug (misoprostol) was administered. The Obama administration has issued changes to the FDA protocol for mifepristone to expand the use of the abortion drug for use up to 70 days gestation (10 weeks). The second drug, misoprostol, can now be taken without a second visit to the physician. In the first decade on the market, mifepristone has been associated with severe adverse events including death, hospitalization, serious blood loss requiring transfusions and severe infections.
03.29.2016	Amid growing bipartisan support for replacing the Windfall Elimination Provision, local firefighters, police officers, teachers and retirees joined U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady at Houston Fire Station 84 to highlight an important congressional effort to treat all workers who pay into Social Security fairly. share: f t Houston – Amid growing bipartisan support for replacing the Windfall Elimination Provision, local firefighters, police officers, teachers and retirees joined U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady at Houston Fire Station 84 to highlight an important congressional effort to treat all workers who pay into Social Security fairly. “For over a decade I have worked to repeal the misguided Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) in favor of the same benefit formula for everyone,“ said Congressman Brady, the new chairman of the House Ways & Means Committee. “Under our approach, Social Security would stop treating our firefighters, police officers and teachers differently.” “For any public employee that has paid into Social Security, they deserve their full benefit just like any other worker,” added Todd Clark, Chairman of the Houston Firefighters; Relief and Retirement Fund. “If passed, H.R. 711 will replace WEP with a formula that does not unfairly reduce a public servant’s benefit.” “Houston fire fighters appreciate Rep. Brady’s leadership on this important issue. H.R. 711 is a big first step toward resolving the inequities that fire fighters, police officers and teachers face with our current Social Security system,” said Alvin W. White, Jr., president, Houston Professional Fire Fighters Association. “We urge Congress and the White House to pass and enact this legislation as soon as possible.” “The Texas Law Enforcement Council is represented here today because those who protect and serve deserve fairness when they retire,” said Ray Hunt, President of the Houston Police Officers Union. “Most Texas peace officers pay into Social Security on their second and third jobs, so all they ask for is to not be punished for supporting their families while protecting everyone else’s families.” “This proportional approach will help Social Security over the long term while helping those who protect us and teach our kids,” concluded Brady. The Social Security Subcommittee held the first hearing on HR 711 last week.
03.22.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following in response to the terrorist attacks in Brussels early this morning. “A terrorist attack in Brussels is no less likely than a terrorist attack in the U.S. We are in a war against radical Islamic terrorism, and this is yet another warning sign to America. To keep our communities safe we must fully fund a strong national defense, launch an aggressive strategy to defeat ISIS and continue closing loopholes to prevent foreign terrorists from traveling to the U.S. That’s what I am fighting for in Congress.” Background: Yesterday, the house passed H.R. 4314, the Counterterrorism Screening and Assistance Act of 2016, which requires a plan to combat international travel by terrorists and foreign fighters, accelerate the transfer of certain border security systems to foreign partner governments, establish minimum international border security standards, authorize the suspension of foreign assistance to countries not making significant efforts to comply with such minimum standards, and for other purposes. The bill also authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide equipment and supplies to mitigate the risk of infectious diseases. Today, the House Armed Services Committee held a hearing with Defense Secretary Ash Carter and General Joseph Dunford on the 2017 National Defense Authorization Budget Request and military readiness.
03.17.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the passage of a Resolution authorizing the Speaker to submit a brief on behalf of the U.S. House of Representatives in the Supreme Court Case United States v. Texas to defend Congress’s Article I power as the sole body authorized to write laws. “I’d expect better from a constitutional law professor. The Constitution is clear that only Congress has the authority to write laws. When is the Obama White House going to wake up? Congress said no to his executive amnesty agenda and our courts have agreed. Now, through this resolution, Congress will once again defend the Constitution and protect the American people.” Background: The House resolution authorizes the Speaker to submit a brief that will defend Congress’s Article I power as the sole body authorized to make the laws of the land as defined by the Constitution.
03.14.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of two House Resolutions to identify the actions of ISIL as a genocide and highlight the atrocities committed by the Assad regime in Syria. “Countless innocents and Christians are being slaughtered across the world. It is time Mr. President that you call these terrorist’s actions what they are and denounce it. The House is ready to say this, it is time that your Administration follows – these are war crimes, and this is genocide.” Background: H. Con. Res. 75: The resolution recognizes that the atrocities against religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria constitute war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. It also condemns indiscriminate violence of the Assad regime and acknowledges its part in the growth of the terrorist organization. The Obama Administration faces a legislatively-mandated deadline of March 17, 2016 to determine whether ISIL’s brutality constitutes genocide. H. Con. Res. 121: The resolution calls for a Syrian War Crimes Tribunal while highlighting and condemning the atrocities committed by the Government of Syria. For more information, please visit the House Foreign Affairs Committee webpage.
03.10.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-8) announced the details for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The winner of the competition will have his or her artwork hung with winners from across the country in a special display in the U.S. Capitol. “Each year I look forward to the Congressional Art Competition. It’s an amazing opportunity for the talented high school artists of the 8th District to display their talents to the nation and bring a little piece of home to the Capitol.” Background: All entries for the 2016 competition must be received no later than April 8, 2016. To view the contest rules and download the appropriate paperwork click here. Each spring, the Congressional Institute sponsors a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent in the nation and in each congressional district. Since the Artistic Discovery competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated.
03.07.2016	“Cathy and I are saddened by the news of her passing, but we rejoice in the knowledge that she is reunited with her beloved Ronnie in the Kingdom of Heaven.” share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement honoring Former First Lady Nancy Reagan who set a high standard for America. “Cathy and I are saddened by the news of her passing, but we rejoice in the knowledge that she is reunited with her beloved Ronnie in the Kingdom of Heaven.” ###
02.26.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of the Sportsmen's Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act of 2015 or the SHARE Act. The bill revises a variety of existing programs to expand access to, and opportunities for, hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting while protecting Second Amendment rights. "Today the House voted to stop the Obama White House’s attack on America’s hunters, anglers and sport shooters, while protecting your Second Amendment rights. Mr. President, America’s heritage is not something to be regulated, it should be protected for future generations." Background: The SHARE Act increases opportunities for hunters, anglers and shooters; eliminates red tape and safeguards against new regulations impeding outdoor sporting activities; and, protects Second Amendment rights. Supported by over 50 sportsman's groups, this Act would ensure future generations have ample access to federal lands to hunt, fish and shoot. For more information click here.
02.23.2016	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman, Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and transfer the remaining terrorist detainees. “The law says ‘no’. Congress says ‘no’. Mister President, you signed the law so what about ‘no means no’ don’t you understand? America’s national security and the safety of my constituents will not be jeopardized for your old, rejected campaign promises. Dangerous terrorist detainees will not be harbored in America.”
02.23.2016	Washington, DC — Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the followings statement on the passage of bills that combat terrorist travel by providing Congress a national strategy and keeping track of people coming from and going to Iraq and Syria. “Terrorist travel is real. The House has already acted to close the visa waiver loophole and stop Syrian refugees. Now we insist the White House develop a real plan to stop terrorists from traveling to America because right now they can’t account for them. America must have a strategy based on accurate and complete information to keep us safe.” Background: For more information on the bill passed click here.
02.13.2016	The Woodlands, TX: Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the passing of Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. "Justice Scalia epitomizes the unapologetic intellectual defender of the Constitution. He will be greatly missed, leaving a gaping hole in conservative thought at the nation's highest court. We, as a nation, pray for his family and thank him for his many years of service on our nation's highest court." Background: Scalia was nominated to the U.S. Supreme Court in 1986 by President Ronald Reagan.
02.10.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the passage of the nine bills aimed at better serving our nation’s veterans and increasing the oversight and accountability of the Department of Veterans Affairs. “Whether it’s increased and improved services at the new Conroe VA Clinic or my Veterans’ Resource Fair, I will continue to support access to the tools and resources our local heroes need. These bills will enhance veterans’ access to health care, including a provision I championed to speed up medical disability examinations at the VA. They will also aid our veterans looking for a better education, and good paying jobs, while forcing accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs.” Background: Bills passed by the House of Representatives can be found here.
02.05.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the President’s proposed plan to impose a $10 tax on every barrel of oil to pay for green transportation projects. “President Obama is attacking our Texas energy jobs to push his liberal green-energy agenda as hardworking Americans are finally seeing relief at the pump. Because of Obama’s job-killing policies they can’t afford any more energy price increases from this White House. A lame-duck president should remember that instead of playing political games with an economy that he has run into the ground.” Background: According to published reports when the President releases his final budget request next week, he will propose more than $300 billion worth of investments over the next decade in mass transit, high-speed rail, self-driving cars. To pay for the programs President Obama will call for a $10 “fee” on every barrel of oil.
02.05.2016	Conroe, Texas – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, who vigorously opposes the rural route of the proposed Texas high-speed rail project, is challenging their authority to condemn land under eminent domain for the controversial project. Brady led the successful effort to defeat the proposed ‘bullet train’ through rural counties as a state legislator in the 1990’s. In a recent letter he requested the help of area state legislators in seeking an opinion from the Texas Attorney General. He also commended them for their leadership against the project in the recent session of the Legislature. “Taking property against a landowner’s will, especially land that may have been in the family for generations, is a serious matter. Because this is a state project, I am requesting your leadership in determining if Texas Central Partners has state eminent domain power. I question that it does.” The high speed rail project is a private project wholly within Texas, and has not sought to be certified as a federal project – which if it occurs, Brady says he will fight. In 2014 Brady and House Republicans zeroed out all federal funding for President Obama’s high speed rail projects. Last year they successfully blocked any high-speed rail funding in the $8 billion reauthorization of AMTRAK – the passenger rail service primarily in the northeast. Last summer Brady announced his opposition to the rural route, saying, “it divides and damages rural counties, communities and farms in my district, including Grimes, Madison and Leon counties. This route fractures our rural lifestyle without any direct benefits to our communities, families and businesses.” State legislators Brady commended and requested the AG opinion from include: State senators Brandon Creighton, Robert Nichols and Charles Schwertner, and state representatives Trent Ashby, Will Metcalf, John Otto, Mark Keough, Cecil Bell and Leighton Schubert. To view the letter click here.
02.04.2016	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 766, the Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2015 which prohibits any federal banking agency from ordering a banks or lenders to terminate customer accounts unless the agency has a material reason to do so. "I won’t stand by and let this President intimidate local banks into cutting off local businesses who are merely exercising their Second Amendment rights to lawfully sell firearms to law-abiding citizens. I’ll continue to fight to protect your freedoms granted under the Constitution. Operation Choke Point’s unlawful actions must be struck from our history books and we need our agencies to operate under the rule of law." Background: H.R. 766 would institute numerous reforms to bring more transparency and accountability to federal oversight of banks, aimed at preventing the unchecked abuse of Operation Choke Point. The bill would require regulators that suggest or order a bank to terminate a customer’s account to have material reasoning, with reference to any specific laws or regulations the enforcement agency believed were being violated. Regulating agencies would also have to submit annual reports to Congress documenting any such requests or orders. The bill would also make important changes to the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, which agencies have cited as authorization for Operation Chokepoint
02.03.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of H.R.3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act which requires Congress’ certification before the President can lifts sanctions on financial institutions in Iran. “This restores the power of Congress, not President Obama, to determine if financial sanctions are lifted on Iran. Why is the White House enabling more terror and weapons for Iran to use against America and our friend Israel? America’s national security comes first.” Background: H.R. 3662 would prohibit the president from removing a foreign financial institutions and individuals from specified lists of blocked nationals until it certify to Congress that the individual or organization is not involved in any elicit or terrorist activity. H.R. 3662 would amend the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 in order to prohibit, or impose strict conditions, on the opening of accounts in the United States by a foreign financial institution that facilitates Iran's support for Hezbollah, Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic Jihad, or any affiliates.
02.02.2016	Washington, DC — Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the House’s veto override vote on the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. This bill, which includes ObamaCare repeal language from the Ways and Means Committee that Brady leads, stops funding for abortion providers including the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and repeals the key pillars of the President’s healthcare law. “We will continue to fight a President who has chosen to stand on the wrong side of history. This country has lost 58 million children to abortion since 1973, it’s time to end this government funded war on the unborn. What our country needs is a health-care system that delivers choice and access to affordable care, not one that drives up costs and funnels money to Planned Parenthood.” Background: A bill or joint resolution that has been vetoed by the President can become law if two-thirds of the Members voting in the House and the Senate each agree to pass it over the President’s objection. The chambers act sequentially on vetoed measures: The House acts first on House-originated measures (H.R. and H.J. Res.), and the Senate acts first on Senate-originated measures (S. and S.J. Res.). If the first-acting chamber fails to override the veto, the other chamber cannot consider it.
01.29.2016	The Woodlands, TX – There will be a new early voting location in North Harris County for residents between Tomball and The Woodlands. Residents in the Creekside community brought the idea to U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady who worked with Harris County Precinct 4 Commissioner Jack Cagle, Harris County Clerk Stan Stanart and Lone Star College to make the idea a reality at the new LSC-Creekside Center. “Early voting has always been such a hassle for these communities, having this early voting site at the college is going to make it so much easier,” said Brady. “I really want to thank all those who made this joint effort successful: Harris County Commissioner Jack Cagle, Harris County Clerk Stan Stanart, Lone Star College and of course, the leaders of The Woodlands Creekside Park Village Association.” “I have made conveniently located early voting centers a priority on behalf of our Precinct 4 residents,” said Harris County Precinct 4 Commissioner R. Jack Cagle “So, I am pleased that working together we were able to accomplish this on behalf of our residents in the Creekside area.” "Lone Star College-Creekside gives us an opportunity to be a contributor to the Creekside communities,” added Lone Star College-Tomball President Lee Ann Nutt. “We want to be a good neighbor, and being an early voting site certainly helps us accomplish that goal. Civic engagement is an important value we want to instill in our students. So being able to provide our building for early voting will also be a teaching opportunity." Located at 8747 West New Harmony Trail in The Woodlands, LSC–Creekside Center has ample parking and easy access for voters. The new location will be up and running for this year’s March 1st primary. Early voting runs February 16-26.
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) delivered the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address. “In a world more dangerous, a country more divided and a people more disheartened than when he took office, the President’s speech was remarkably disconnected from the worries of everyday Americans. Instead of devoting his final State of the Union to his personal vision for our country, he should have focused on pro-growth policies that matter most to families and local job creators. “By contrast, Ways and Means Committee lawmakers are listening to Americans who want Washington to take action now to improve our economy and get our country back on the right track. We are aggressively advancing legislative solutions to help more people enjoy better jobs, bigger paychecks and greater opportunities.”
01.08.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement in response to the President’s veto of H.R. 3762 The Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015, which dismantles the key pillars of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood for one year. The budget bill was developed by several committees, including the Ways & Means Committee chaired by Congressman Brady. “Today President Obama has chosen to stand on the wrong side of history. He insists on forcing Americans to buy expensive and unusable health care while funneling taxpayer dollars to subsidize the gruesome practices at Planned Parenthood," Background: H.R. 3762, as passed by the Senate on December 3rd, 2015, meets reconciliation instructions, dismantles Obamacare, prohibits federal funding for particular abortion providers, such as Planned Parenthood, and invests in women’s healthcare. The Senate amendment expanded the scope of the House-passed reconciliation bill. In addition to the House repeal provisions, the Senate amendment repeals the Obamacare coverage subsidies, tax credits, and the Medicaid expansion in 2018, and repeals the majority of the Obamacare taxes in 2016.
01.07.2016	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3762. The Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015, which dismantles the key pillars of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood for one year. The budget bill was developed by several committees, including the Ways & Means Committee chaired by Congressman Brady. “Too many families and local businesses are being hurt by ObamaCare, and too many innocent lives are lost at the hands of Planned Parenthood. After years of fighting to stop the Affordable Care Act and stop the gruesome practices at Planned Parenthood, the House is delivering legislation to the President’s desk that achieves both. Let President Obama, with his veto pen, defend his unpopular and expensive health care plan that millions of Americans don’t want and can’t afford. By defending Planned Parenthood, let him stand on the wrong side of history by defending gruesome and unethical medical practices that many Americans find abhorrent. We will fight to override his veto, because using our constitutional power to change bad laws is never wasted when we are fighting for principles my constituents believe in.” Background: H.R. 3762, as passed by the Senate on December 3rd, 2015, meets reconciliation instructions, dismantles Obamacare, prohibits federal funding for particular abortion providers, such as Planned Parenthood, and invests in women’s healthcare. The Senate amendment expanded the scope of the House-passed reconciliation bill. In addition to the House repeal provisions, the Senate amendment repeals the Obamacare coverage subsidies, tax credits, and the Medicaid expansion in 2018, and repeals the majority of the Obamacare taxes in 2016.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) voted to repeal Obamacare and delivered the following statement on the floor of the House in support of the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762): "Mr. Speaker, I’m pleased to speak today about the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. "Under the leadership of Budget Chairman Dr. Price and Speaker Ryan, we will soon deliver an Obamacare repeal bill to the President’s desk. "By passing this bill today, we’ll fulfill our promise to use every possible tool to repeal the President’s health care law. "We will eliminate the unpopular mandates that are the backbone of Obamacare. "We will protect Americans from tax penalties for failing to purchase an expensive, Washington-approved product that so many people cannot afford. "We will end the tax penalties facing America’s job creators who don’t offer health insurance that meets Washington bureaucrats’ high standards. "We will deliver relief from a dozen Democrat tax increases that drive American jobs overseas and punish American workers. "We will protect taxpayer dollars by repealing an Obamacare slush fund and ensuring subsidies don’t go to people who don’t deserve them, and if they are, made sure they’re returned to the Treasury. "And we will demonstrate our strong commitment to women’s health. Instead of funding Planned Parenthood and its gruesome practices, we’ll fund high quality Community Health Centers. And we’ll help ensure more women have access to quality health care. "We are here today - with a bill that cuts taxes, spending and the deficit - because this Congress did its job. "As our friends across the aisle are so fond of reminding us, House Republicans have been tireless in our attempts to repeal the President’s health care law. "The reason why, is we are fighting for our families, patients, and businesses that have been harmed by it. "Yes, the president will surely veto the bill — even though the proposed law enjoys strong popular support among Americans. "But my belief is that exercising your constitutional powers to legislate is never wasted if you’re fighting for principles your constituents believe in. Give the American people a clear moral choice. Let the President explain why his health care law is raising costs on so many American families and businesses. Let him stand on the wrong side of history by defending unethical medical practices that many Americans find abhorrent. "With that Mr. Speaker, I yield back my time." ###
01.05.2016	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s Executive Orders targeting gun rights. "Gun violence is real, but nothing will change as long as President Obama keeps ignoring mental health care while targeting law-abiding citizens who responsibly exercise their second amendment rights. Let's be honest, Mr. President, you're playing politics and trying to circumvent Congress because your dictates are outdated, unconstitutional and won't make this country one ounce safer. Until you get serious about real mental health care in America, I'll fight hard to stop these political games." Background: The Obama Administration is considering redefining “engaged in the business,” which is defined in current Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) regulations. The goal is to redefine the term to include more non-licensees in the definition of “dealer,” so as to expand the number of background checks. For further information on ATF regulations click here. Note: President Obama's weak $500 million commitment to mental health care represents merely one hour of federal spending and no real solutions.
12.18.2015	Washington, DC —Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) voted to fund the federal government in 2016, including critical national defense funding, adding 1,000 new border agents and protecting America against foreign terrorist travelers. Brady also played a crucial role in lifting the federal ban on selling crude oil to the world – a change that will create an estimated 300,000 energy jobs in Texas. “I refuse to surrender to terrorists by crippling our military. I refuse to let dangerous Islamic jihadists travel to America. And I refuse to turn my back on Texas energy workers who are on the verge of losing their jobs. I’m voting yes to fully fund our national defense in the war on terror, secure our border and set up the historic House vote in early January to send to the President’s desk our law to defund Planned Parenthood and dismantle ObamaCare.” Background: The House amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 2029 would provide funding for appropriated programs for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2016. It contains critical national defense funding, it adds 1,000 new border patrol agents, and it protects America against foreign terrorist travelers. The bill also lifts the outdated ban on selling crude oil around the world which will add 300,000 jobs in Texas. The full text of the bill can be found here.
12.03.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), released the following statement on the passage of S. 1177 the Every Student Succeeds Act, which replaces the obsolete No Child Left Behind and begins restoring local control to schools: “I want the federal government out of the classroom so that our teachers can teach and our kids can learn without a mandated test seemingly every other day. I didn’t support the No Child Left Behind Act and I’m fighting to end Washington’s coercion of our states to adopt Common Core. As the Wall Street Journal points out, this law is the largest transfer of power from Washington to the states in a quarter of a century, and it’s long overdue. As a parent of children in our public schools, I’m convinced our local schools will set higher standards than the federal government ever will. And our local school board leaders are held accountable by the voters for the results in our schools. That’s the way it should be.” Background: The Every Student Succeeds Act removes the hurdles No Child Left Behind created and gives parents, teachers, and local communities the tools they need to provide the best possible education for their children. Additionally, it completely eliminates federal coercion in education policy, allowing states to withdraw from Common Core completely. This bicameral bipartisan bill maintains high standards and accountability, but it moves them to the state and local level, so states and their local communities can set the standards and determine how best to achieve them.
12.01.2015	Washington, DC — Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) voted in favor of two Joint Resolutions of Disapproval of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) carbon dioxide rules for U.S. power plants issued in line with the President’s Climate Action Plan which would impose harmful renewable energy and cap-and-trade mandates. “Cleaner air doesn’t have to mean fewer jobs and higher monthly energy bills. Unfortunately, in its obsession with global warming the Obama White House is abusing its power to try to shutter Texas power plants and drive up fuel costs. This will hurt Texas families already struggling to make ends meet. I’m proud to stop this radical EPA rule.” Background: S.J. Res 23 and S.J. Res 24: Passed by the Senate on November 17, 2015 nullifies the Environmental Protection Agency's rule published on October 23, 2015, that establishes new source performance standards under the Clean Air Act for carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric utility generating units (EGUs) if the EGUs are newly constructed, modified, or reconstructed. (Those EGUs convert fossil fuel energy to electric energy.)
11.20.2015	Washington, DC — On Thursday the U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation reforming the nation’s central bank, including a new bipartisan national commission championed by Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas. Brady’s signature Centennial Monetary Commission establishes a bipartisan commission to evaluate the performance of the Federal Reserve over the first 100 years of its existence – specifically on the economy, inflation and financial stability – and to recommend to Congress the appropriate role of the Fed in the 21st Century. “Given its recent 100th birthday and the experience of the recent financial crisis, is there any more appropriate time to examine the role of the Federal Reserve in American life than now? Getting the role of the Fed right in the 21st Century is critical to America’s economic growth and protecting the purchasing power of the dollar, which has a big impact on working families and retirees. “America needs a thoughtful and constructive evaluation of the Fed’s performance, along with recommendations to Congress for the Fed’s role for the long-term. I believe a sound and stable dollar is the best foundation for economic growth, but others have different ideas. This bipartisan commission creates the first opportunity in decades for a high-profile, open discussion on the rules, mandates and role of the Federal Reserve in a changing world. In the end, getting the role of the Fed right is Congress’s constitutional role. This evaluation is long overdue.” Background on the Bill: The Centennial Monetary Commission is included in the Federal Oversight Reform and Modernization Act (the FORM Act) which protects the Fed’s independence to chart whatever monetary policy course it deems appropriate but requires it to give the American people a greater accounting of its actions. The FORM Act helps consumers and investors make better decisions in the present and form sounder expectations about the future. The legislation directs the Federal Reserve to transparently communicate its monetary policy decisions to the American people. The FORM Act requires the Fed to generate a monetary policy strategy of its own choosing in order to provide added transparency about the factors leading to its monetary policy decisions.
11.19.2015	Washington, DC — Today Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015, which places the most robust national-security vetting process in history for any refugee population. “My first priority is protecting this nation and those I represent. The SAFE Act, which passed by veto-proof majority in the U.S. House, vets, monitors and contains those looking to enter the United States. It’s time for the Senate and President Obama to stop this reckless and dangerous refugee resettlement program.” Background: The American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015 effectively suspends the admission of Syrian and Iraqi refugees into the United States until the nation’s top security officials can certify the integrity of the background checks and are able to declare each refugee, individually, does not pose a threat to the United States. This bill places a moratorium on the admission of these refugees until following conditions are met: o the FBI Director certifies the background investigation of each refugee; and o the Secretary of Homeland Security, along with the FBI Director and the Director of National Intelligence, certifies to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the U.S. o It also creates an additional layer of protection by requiring the DHS Inspector General to independently assess the refugee approvals—making sure that high-risk individuals do not slip through the cracks. It makes sure the FBI has a direct role in validating that the background checks are thorough enough to keep dangerous individuals out of the country. *Copy of the bill can be found here.
11.06.2015	"With so many millions of Americans currently out of work how can the president turn his back on such an immediate job creator?" share: f t Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) today released the following statement on President Obama’s decision to reject the creation of Keystone XL pipeline. "With so many millions of Americans currently out of work how can the president turn his back on such an immediate job creator?"
11.05.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), released the following statement on the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for 2016, which authorizes funding for the U.S. Department of Defense. “Today the House has spoken, again, that we will not allow the White House to hollow out our national defense. I will continue to stand with our armed forces to make sure they have the tools and support needed to defend our freedom and maintain security. The war on terror is upon us. The Islamic State is challenging our nation’s security around the world – including right here in America. I voted to support the only barrier standing between terrorist attacks and a secure nation.” Background: The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 authorizes the necessary funding for the U.S. Department of Defense so our service men and women have the tools and resources they need to defend our nation. The annual defense authorization fulfills Congress’ Constitutional responsibility to "provide for the common Defense.”
11.05.2015	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady today released the following statement on the passage of the Surface Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. The bill Provide $350 billion in contract authority over the 2015-2021 period for infrastructure projects. “As we look to turn this economy around and grow Main St. jobs it is essential that America’s infrastructure can effectively and efficiently move American goods. Texas, like America, was built for trade and to make sure that the 8th District and the rest of country is able to compete and win around the world we must make sure our nation’s roads, bridges and railways are properly maintained and funded now and in the future.” Background: The Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 is a multi-year, fiscally responsible surface transportation reauthorization bill that improves our nation’s infrastructure, reforms our surface transportation programs, refocuses those programs on addressing national priorities, maintains a strong commitment to safety, and welcomes innovation to make the system safer and more efficient.
11.04.2015	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement today after being selected chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee by the GOP steering committee. With approval of the full Republican conference Thursday, Brady will follow now-Speaker Paul Ryan as leader of the oldest committee of the United States Congress and the chief tax-writing committee in the House of Representatives share: f t Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement today after being selected chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee by the GOP steering committee. With approval of the full Republican conference Thursday, Brady will follow now-Speaker Paul Ryan as leader of the oldest committee of the United States Congress and the chief tax-writing committee in the House of Representatives. Brady, a ten-term member from The Woodlands, Texas, has led two of the committee’s key panels - Health and Trade - and is the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “I’m honored to lead this talented committee because House Republicans and Speaker Paul Ryan are advancing a pro-growth agenda to get this country back on track. This includes taking real steps toward fixing this broken tax code, reforming welfare, saving Social Security and Medicare for the long term and enlarging America’s economic freedom to trade. We have a lot of work to do, and it won’t happen overnight for this reason: While many of these solutions originate in the Ways and Means Committee, I intend to seek the ideas and active engagement of our Republican Conference. Big challenges require big effort from all of us. I also commend my friend Pat Tiberi on his very competitive race. Pat is a deeply talented and respected leader, and our committee will continue to rely on his guidance as we move our pro-growth agenda forward."
10.30.2015	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady invites all area veterans and their families to attend a Veterans Resource Fair on Wednesday, November 11 from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Health Science Building Atrium at Lone Star College-Montgomery. share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady Announces Veterans Resource Fair will be held on Veterans Day When: Wednesday, November 11th, 6:00 - 9:00 PM Where: Lone Star Community College- Montgomery Health Science Building Atrium (Building B), 3200 College Park Drive Conroe, Texas 77384 U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady invites all area veterans and their families to attend a Veterans Resource Fair on Wednesday, November 11 from 6 to 9 p.m. in the Health Science Building Atrium at Lone Star College-Montgomery. “As a brother of an active serviceman and a Representative to thousands of veterans, I believe we must ensure those who sacrifice their lives and well-being for our great nation are not forgotten,” said Brady. “Our vets have given so much for our freedoms, we want to actively seek new ways for our office to help them.” The fair is an opportunity for veterans and their families to learn more about available programs and services. Representatives will be on hand with information on county, state and federal veterans' programs as well as veterans’ health and wellness programs. The Veterans Administration will also have officials on site to speak to veterans about available VA benefits, how to file a new VA claim or to check the status of an existing claim. If you or someone you know has served our country, tell them about this event on Wednesday, November 11th. List of participating organizations: Alzheimer’s Association – Houston Conroe Reserve Unit Give an Hour Goodwill Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation (JDRF) Lone Star College - College Credit for Heroes Lone Star College - Veterans Affairs Montgomery County United Way PTSD Foundation and Camp Hope Texas Veterans Commission The Refuge Trauma Center VA Regional Office in Houston Veterans Evaluation Services Veterans Justice Outreach (VA VJO) Walgreens - College Park Location YMCA - Woodlands/Conroe Houston Bar Foundation St. Luke's CHI National Military Family Association Disabled American Veterans
10.29.2015	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement on the today’s release by Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) that real gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an annual rate of 1.5 percent during the 3rd-quarter of 2015. “The economy is slowing again which is the trademark signature of the disappointing Obama recovery as it fails struggling Americans,” Brady said. “Restoring growth and opportunity must be our first priority. Fixing a broken tax code and scaling back unnecessary regulations that are major impediments to private investment are critical to faster economic growth and job creation. ” Average Post-1960 Recoveries. Real GDP has grown at an annual rate of only 2.1 percent during the current recovery. During other recoveries since 1960 lasting longer than one year, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 3.9 percent in the 25 quarters following a recession. During the strong Reagan recovery of the 1980s, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.8 percent over a comparable period. Growth Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries, the growth gap in real GDP stands at $1.842 trillion (2009$), up from $1.831 trillion (2009$) last quarter. Compared with the Reagan recovery, the growth gap stands at $2.836 trillion (2009$). Eliminating the Growth Gap. In order to eliminate the growth gap in real GDP compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016, real GDP would need to growth at an annual rate of 11.6 percent over the next five quarters. To catch up with the Reagan recovery, real GDP would need to grow at an annual rate of 16.6 percent over the next five quarters. Real GDP growth per capita. In the six years since the recession ended, real GDP per capita has grown at an annualized rate of 1.4 percent. The average per capita growth rate over a comparable period in other post-1960 recoveries was 2.8 percent. In Reagan recovery real GDP growth per capita was 3.9 percent. The per capita growth gap compared with other post-1960 recoveries stands at $4,618 (2009$) and at $8,316 (2009$) when compared with the Reagan recovery.
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republicans on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement in reaction to today’s Federal Open Market Committee’s (FOMC) statement that the committee had decided to leave its monetary policy unchanged. “The Fed needs to move forward with normalizing monetary policy sooner rather than later,” Brady said. “If the Fed does not believe that current economic conditions warrant an increase in its Fed Fund Target rate, it should at least begin the process by scaling back its intervention in financial markets by reducing the size of its balance sheet. A good place to start would be to stop rolling over maturing Treasury securities and to stop reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities.”
10.28.2015	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), today released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, a two-year budget bill: “It’s dangerous to hold America’s military hostage to politics, as President Obama repeatedly does. Our nation is at war and every opportunity I get to fully fund our military, especially for two years so they have predictability, I’ll take it. The President insisted on a blank check for more spending, and we denied him. Instead the bill includes the first Social Security reforms in decades by adopting Ways & Means Committee solutions to the disability program to stop rampant fraud, direct help to the truly disabled and reward those who want to return run to work. That is serious entitlement reform.” Background: H.R. 1314 encompasses a two-year bipartisan, bicameral, budget agreement with the Administration to secure long-term savings through structural entitlement reforms, protect the economy by ensuring the country does not default on its debt, strengthen national security and protect U.S. Armed Forces, bring certainty to the congressional appropriations process, and protect more people from the President’s health care law, without raising taxes and by offsetting additional spending with mandatory spending cuts and other savings.
10.27.2015	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 597, legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. “This is first and foremost a trade issue. Ending export financing here in the United States isn’t enough, it needs to be phased out around the globe just as we reduce tariffs, quotas and other trade concerns. This should be a top negotiating priority for America as it deals with our global competitors in Asia, Europe and North America. We need a president who will make this a trade priority, and support from members of Congress to keep it a top trade priority. Until that occurs I’ll keep fighting to make sure our local businesses have a level playing field when competing around the world. Whether it is a 15 worker company like Royal Equipment Company or Anadarko employing thousands of local workers, both rely on the Export Import bank to finance projects that private banks simply cannot. These projects create local, good paying jobs for Texas workers.” Background: H.R. 597 reforms and reauthorizes the Export-Import Bank of the United States for five years while making the Bank’s practices more accountable, and enhancing taxpayer protections by requiring the Bank to become more solvent and self-sufficient.
10.26.2015	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) announced today he will seek the chairmanship of the House Ways and Means Committee. The gavel will come open following Paul Ryan’s expected election as Speaker of the House later this week. Brady, second in seniority on the committee to fellow Texan Sam Johnson, chairs the prominent Health subcommittee and is the former leader of the Trade subcommittee. He is also the top House Republican and former chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “House Republicans are unifying behind Paul Ryan and his bold, positive vision for America. To advance Speaker Ryan’s pro-growth agenda we need a pro-growth conservative Ways and Means chairman who has a proven record of working successfully with House Republicans of all philosophies to advance tax reform, entitlement reform and free trade. “The next chairman of the Ways and Means Committee will have to hit the ground running. In addition to major accomplishments as leader of two subcommittees and chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, I’ve worked hard to earn a reputation for fairness, hard work and respect for member’s opinions across the spectrum. “What unites House Republicans - moderate or conservative, new or long serving, wherever your district - is our common hunger to tackle the big challenges that face our nation. While these big issues originate in our committee, I intend to invite and engage the entire Republican conference to develop and sell these solutions to the American public.” As the health subcommittee chairman, Brady helped craft and pass a bipartisan, bicameral solution to the growing crisis of how to pay Medicare doctors. This reform not only provided certainty to doctors and their patients, but also strengthened Medicare solvency. A recognized champion of free trade, Brady was the White House point man for the Central America agreement – and as trade subcommittee chairman helped lead passage of the South Korea, Colombia and Panama agreements. As the top House Republican on the JEC, Brady has emerged as a GOP leader on economic issues: championing permanent tax policy reforms such as an improved research and development tax credit and elimination of the ‘death tax’, challenging President Obama’s economic policies, crafting reforms of the Federal Reserve and developing memorable tools to fight ObamaCare – including the bewildering flow chart of the Affordable Care Act.
10.23.2015	Washington, DC — Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on passage of H.R. 3762 – Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act by a vote of 240 to 189. The bill repeals major provisions of the president’s health care law and defunds abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, redirecting health funding to community health centers. “This gridlock-busting bill dismantles the controversial and unpopular Affordable Care Act, repeals Democrat tax increases that force American jobs overseas and punishes American workers who have good health care insurance, empties a huge slush fund, and ends taxpayer funding of the gruesome practices at Planned Parenthood and its affiliates. This is the best opportunity for the Senate to finally deliver on their promise to send these bills to the president’s desk.” Background: The bill, Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3762) repeals major provisions of Obamacare including: Automatic enrollment requirement that requires employers with more than 200 employees to automatically enroll new full-time equivalents employees into a qualifying health plan if offered by that employer, and to automatically continue enrollment of current employees ($7.9 billion in savings) The Obamacare slush fund known as the Prevention and Public Health Fund. Prohibits federal funds for 1 year for Planned Parenthood, which includes its affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, and clinics and increases funding to the Community Health Center Fund by $235 million. ($12.5 billion in savings) The Individual and Employer Mandates, the Medical Device Tax, and the health insurance “Cadillac Tax.” ($37.1 billion in savings) According to CBO, the bill would reduce the deficit by $130 billion over 10 years. The bill reported by the Budget Committee reflects the combined submissions of the three authorizing committees: Education and Workforce, Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means.
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. As the U.S. government nears its debt limit, a new analysis by the Joint Economic Committee staff shows that Congress, while under Democratic control, is responsible for 79% of the publicly-held U.S. government debt generated since World War II. The debt analysis is based on party control of Congress, inflation adjusted and attributed equally for sessions when control of Congress is split. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, stated: “While holding the government’s purse strings, Democrats in Congress have racked up nearly 80% of the debt our government owes to the public in modern times. That doesn’t leave Republicans blameless, but clearly President Obama and his party bear the lion’s share of blame for indebting America’s families and children. Instead of walking away from bipartisan discussions and arrogantly demanding a blank check for more deficit spending, the President should be working with Republicans to end Washington’s spending addiction.” While in full control of Congress, since 1947, Democrats generated 57% of the publicly held debt and another 22% while sharing control – totaling 79% since the end of World War II. Republicans generated a negative 1.1%, while controlling both chambers of Congress and 22% while sharing control, totaling 21%.
10.22.2015	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), released the following statement on the President’s veto of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for 2016, which authorizes funding for the U.S. S. Department of Defense. “The world is in chaos, with terrorism knocking on America’s door, and President Obama rejects Congress’s bipartisan call to fully fund our troops and national defense? This is dangerous and reckless. There is no worst possible time than now to hold America’s military strength hostage to more wasteful stimulus spending. If the President won’t stand with our troops and our nation, Congress will. I’ll keep fighting to override the President’s veto and restore the best training, technology and weaponry to America’s military men and women as they risk their lives for our security.” Background: The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 authorizes the necessary funding for the U.S. Department of Defense so our service men and women have the tools and resources they need to defend our nation. The annual defense authorization fulfills Congress’ Constitutional responsibility to "provide for the common Defense.” On May 15, 2015, the House passed H.R. 1735 by a vote of 269-151. The Senate passed S. 1376 on June 18, 2015 by a vote of 71-25. Full text of the bill can be found here.
10.21.2015	Washington, DC — Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 692, The Default Prevention Act, by a vote of 235 to 194, which takes a potential default on U.S. debt off the table by requiring the Treasury Department to continue to pay U.S. debts fully and on time, including Social Security payments if the debt limit is reached. “Giving President Obama a blank check for more deficit spending is not acceptable, nor is America defaulting on its debts. This bill ensures American families don’t pay the price for Washington’s wasteful spending. It also guarantees seniors get their full Social Security payments, and avoids a default that would increase deficits and risk throwing America into another economic recession.” Background: H.R. 692, The Default Prevention Act requires the Department of the Treasury to continue to borrow to pay the principal and interest on certain obligations if the debt of the United States exceeds the statutory limit. If the debt limit is exceeded, Treasury is required to issue obligations solely for the payment of the principal and interest on debt held by the public or the Social Security trust funds. The bill prohibits Treasury from using obligations issued under this bill to compensate Members of Congress. If Treasury exercises authority provided by this bill, a report must be submitted to Congress including an accounting of the principal on mature obligations and interest that is due or accrued, and obligations issued under this bill.
10.20.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statement following remarks by Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan before the House Republican Conference concerning his decision to run for Speaker. “Paul Ryan essentially challenged House Republicans to answer this question: Are we committed strongly enough to changing the direction of America that we will change how we do our work? To that end, can we start fresh with a redesigned Speaker’s role, more power delegated to rank-and-file members and their committees to drive our agenda, and to unite behind whomever is the next Speaker of the House? “Those are the crucial elements for House Republicans to succeed. And Paul made it clear that if we can’t unify behind him and a fresh bottoms-up approach he is happy where he is as chairman of the Ways & Means Committee.” Background: Congressman Ryan’s statement can be found here.
10.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement in reaction to the release of the Monthly Treasury Statement (MTS) on Thursday, October 15 showing that two new records had been set for inflation adjusted per person receipts by the federal government. “Washington is flush with dollars, collecting more money per person for the budget year and more money than any twelve-month period on record, even adjusted for inflation", says Brady. "This is just more glaring evidence that Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem. Contrary to President Obama and Democrats in Congress, taking more hard-earned dollars from taxpayers is not the solution." Fiscal Year Record. According to the MTS, the federal government collected $10,161 per person during the just ended fiscal year establishing a new fiscal year record for inflation-adjusted per capita receipts. The prior high occurred in fiscal year 2000 when real per capita receipts were $9,998 (September 2015 dollars). 12-Month Record. At $10,161, Washington’s haul for the prior twelve months also established a new record for receipts over a twelve month period. The prior high was for the period from May 2000 to April 2001 when real per capita receipts were $10,134 (September 2015 dollars). Receipts as a Share of the Economy. Based upon current estimates, yesterday’s report means that when the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) releases its advance estimate of 3rd-quarter 2015 gross domestic product (GDP), the federal government’s receipts for the just ended fiscal year will likely top 18 percent of GDP for the first time since fiscal year 2001. Over the 50-year period spanning 1965 to 2014, receipts averaged approximately 17.4 percent of fiscal year GDP.
10.13.2015	Washington, DC— U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the publication of The Windfall Eliminations Provision: It’s Time to Correct the Math, a report by the Social Security Advisory Board. In the report the advisory board recommends Congress replace the three-decade old Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP) with a new formula that is used by Congressmen Brady and Neal’s Equal Treatment of Public Servant Act. The Equal Treatment for Public Servants Act of 2015 replaces the WEP, which docks some public servants more than $400 a month in Social Security benefits, with a Social Security formula based on equal treatment and the real-life contributions of workers in Social Security substitute programs. “It’s time to repeal the WEP and restore hard-earned Social Security benefits to teachers, police and firefighters. Like other workers who pay into Social Security and earn a retirement at work, they deserve equal treatment based on their real-life contributions. This bill provides fairness to our local public servants and strengthens the solvency of Social Security in the long term. Now it’s time to move this bipartisan proposal forward.” Congressman Richard E. Neal said, “As someone who has worked tirelessly to preserve and protect Social Security, I am pleased to be an original sponsor of this important bipartisan legislation. Treating our teachers and public servants fairly when it comes to their Social Security benefits is not an unreasonable proposal. I strongly believe these public employees should be treated the same as any other hard working member of the American family. Social Security is one of our country’s greatest achievements, and by repealing the Windfall Elimination Provision, we will ensure that teachers and public servants receive the retirement benefits they have earned.” Background: The Social Security Advisory Board, an independent bipartisan government agency established in 1994 to advise the President, the Congress, and the Commissioner of Social Security on matters of policy and administration of the Old-age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (Social Security) and the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) programs. The board recently released The Windfall Elimination Provision: It’s Time to Correct the Math. While the board does not endorse legislation it does support a proportional formula to replace WEP for future retirees as described in H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment for Public Servants Act. The Board’s full report can be found here. Congressmen Brady and Neal introduced H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment for Public Servants Act. It repeals the 1980’s era WEP which impacts 1.3 million public servants who earn a pension at work as well as in Social Security. The WEP can dock monthly Social Security benefits as much as $413 a month. Instead, H.R. 711 bases Social Security on real life earnings and work history.
10.09.2015	Washington, DC — Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a leader on energy issues in Congress, released the following statement as the U.S. House of Representatives approved 261 to 159 a measure lifting the 40-year old ban on crude oil exports from the United States. “Imagine American-made energy coursing through a stronger U.S. economy and flowing to our allies around the world - in Ukraine, Europe and the Baltic states. This is Putin’s worst nightmare and a dream for the millions of Americans still looking for good paying jobs. “Today the U.S. House takes the first critical step to making this dream a reality by repealing the outdated, 40-year old ban on selling American-made energy to the world. So now the question becomes: Where does the Senate and President Obama stand - with America or with Russia?” Background: H.R. 702 amends the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to repeal authority to restrict the export of: coal, petroleum products, natural gas, or petrochemical feedstocks; and supplies of materials or equipment necessary to maintain or further exploration, production, refining, or transportation of energy supplies, or for the construction or maintenance of energy facilities within the United States. The bill prohibits any federal official from imposing or enforcing any restriction on the export of crude oil and requires the Secretary of Energy to study and make recommendations on the appropriate size, composition, and purpose of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
10.05.2015	"Done right this agreement will open a billion middle class customers to American goods and services, and as a result no state could create more good paying jobs than Texas. Since the new trade law Congress recently passed requires the President to make the whole agreement open to the public for two months before he signs it, I and my constituents will be reviewing it carefully to determine if this trade agreement is good for America." share: f t The Woodlands, Texas – Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), the former chairman of the House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee released the following statement on the conclusion of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), negotiations in Atlanta, Georgia. "Done right this agreement will open a billion middle class customers to American goods and services, and as a result no state could create more good paying jobs than Texas. Since the new trade law Congress recently passed requires the President to make the whole agreement open to the public for two months before he signs it, I and my constituents will be reviewing it carefully to determine if this trade agreement is good for America." Background: The Trans-Pacific Partnership is a proposed trade agreement between the United States and 11 Asia-Pacific nations. The original negotiation began under President George W. Bush, then encompassing Singapore, Chile, New Zealand, and Brunei, known as the "P-4" ground of countries. According to Trade Promotion Authority any trade agreement must be put online for the American public to review for 60 days prior to the final agreement being signed and presented to Congress.
10.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement based upon today’s release of the Employment Situation Report for August 2015 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which reported an increase of 142,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (an increase of 118,000 in the private sector) and that the unemployment rate held steady at 5.1 percent. “A record private-sector jobs gap after today’s terrible jobs report is clear evidence that President Obama’s economic policies of more taxes, more federal spending, and more regulation have failed Main Street America. We need to put our faith in free markets and the hardworking men and women of America, not in government.” Private-sector Jobs Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries lasting longer than one year, the private sector jobs gap increased to 6,033,000 from 5,867,000 – a new record. Compared with the Reagan recovery of the 1980s, the gap increased to 13,044,000 from 12,834,000. Effect of Benchmark Revision. On September 17, BLS released its preliminary benchmark revision estimate for the Current Establishment Survey (CES). BLS estimates that nonfarm payrolls will be revised downward by 208,000 jobs, with a decrease of 255,000 private sector payroll jobs and an increase of 47,000 government jobs. If this estimate proves accurate it would push the private-sector jobs gap to 6,288,000. Closing the Gap. Eliminating the Obama recovery's private-sector jobs gap with the average of other post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016 would require the addition of 516,000 private sector jobs in each of the next 15 months. Closing the gap compared with the Reagan recovery would require the addition of 1,031,000 private sector jobs in each of the next 15 months. At This Pace. Private-sector job gains have averaged 179,000 over the past six months. At that pace the private-sector jobs gap compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries would be reduced by 16 percent (967,000) to 5,066,000 by the end of 2016. Labor Force Participation Rate. The labor force participation rate decreased by 0.2 percentage point to 62.4 percent. At 62.4 percent the labor force participation rate is at its lowest level since September 1977 when the rate stood at 62.3 percent. The labor force participation rate was 66.0 percent when the recession began in December 2007 and 65.7 percent when the recession ended in June 2009. Employment-to-Population Ratio. The employment-to-population ratio declined to 59.2 percent. At 59.2 percent, the employment-to-population ratio is below its level of 59.4 percent when the recession ended in June 2009 and significantly below its December 2007 level of 62.7 percent when the recession began.
10.01.2015	“With his veto threat President Obama hopes to hollow out America’s national defense at a time when our world has never been more dangerous. His veto will make our nation less safe, so what is he thinking? We must fully fund and our military and intelligence forces. This bill does just that by fully funding the readiness, training and weaponry for our troops, providing them a much needed pay raise and gives us new cyber security capabilities." share: f t Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), released the following statement on the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, which funds the U.S. Department of Defense. “With his veto threat President Obama hopes to hollow out America’s national defense at a time when our world has never been more dangerous. His veto will make our nation less safe, so what is he thinking? We must fully fund and our military and intelligence forces. This bill does just that by fully funding the readiness, training and weaponry for our troops, providing them a much needed pay raise and gives us new cyber security capabilities. I’m especially pleased our soldiers will now have the ability to carry weapons on bases and installations. Amid the murderous attacks at recruiting centers and bases, and for all the sacrifices our troops make for us, they should be able to protect themselves.” Background: The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 authorizes the necessary funding for the U.S. Department of Defense so our service men and women have the tools and resources they need to defend our nation. The annual defense authorization fulfills Congress’ Constitutional responsibility to "provide for the common Defense.” On May 15, 2015, the House passed H.R. 1735 by a vote of 269-151. The Senate passed S. 1376 on June 18, 2015 by a vote of 71-25. Full text of the bill can be found here.
09.29.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), leader of a key health panel in Congress, released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3495, The Women’s Public Health and Safety Act. Which, for the first time since Medicaid was enacted, gives flexibility to states to exclude, in Medicaid, health care providers who perform elective abortions or participate in their performance. “This important bill backs states' rights to direct Medicaid money away from organizations like Planned Parenthood to true women's health care centers in their state. It’s time to end this taxpayer-funded attack on human life in America.” Background: Planned Parenthood is the nation’s largest abortion provider, performing over 300,000 abortions per year. Over a three year period, Planned Parenthood received about $1.2 billion through Medicaid, a state-federally funded healthcare program for low income individuals. States, like Texas, have tried to defund abortion providers, like Planned Parenthood, and have been met with resistance from the Obama Administration. Although Texas was able to successfully eliminate Planned Parenthood as a provider from their new Texas Women’s Health Program, state and federal dollars are still able to flow to Planned Parenthood through the state’s Medicaid program. H.R. 3495, the Women’s Public Health and Safety Act, gives states the flexibility and freedom to remove abortion providers from their state Medicaid programs.
09.25.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on a recent letter to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and IRS Commissioner John Koskinen on the recently released notice of proposed rulemaking on Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs).” Congressman Brady was joined by every Republican member of the Ways and Means Committee. The letter clarifies congressional intent on what activities qualify for Master Limited Partnership (MLP) status. The recently proposed IRS rulemaking limits the scope of what qualifies for MLP status far more narrowly than Congress intended. Congress intended MLP status to apply to all income derived from the exploration, development, mining or production, refining, transportation or marketing of minerals and natural resources. The proposed rulemaking severely limits that list and would revoke previously issued Private Letter Rulings and restrict the activities that could be conducted by MLPs. “The US needs to spend roughly $30 billion per year on oil and gas infrastructure to keep pace with the huge leaps in US production—that’s three times as much as we’re currently investing. The only way that will be possible is through MLPs—they’re the most efficient vehicles for raising this sort of capital. The IRS’ proposed rulemaking would severely hamper that.” Background: When Congress first considered the tax treatment of MLPs, the House bill provided partnership treatment to MLPs engaged in the exploration, development, mining or production, refining, transportation or marketing of minerals and natural resources. The Senate had no provision, but in Conference the list of qualified activities was expanded to include the processing of minerals and natural resources so that all activities resulting in chemical or physical changes to a mineral or natural resource would give rise to qualifying income provided such activities did not produce plastics or similar petroleum derivatives. I understand that the proposed regulations articulate much narrower definitions of processing and refining that, if adopted without changes, would effectively revoke previously issued and relied upon PLRs and result in restricting the activities that could be conducted by MLPs. This approach is not consistent with the legislative intent in providing partnership treatment to MLPs engaged in the many activities that constitute the processing and refining of minerals and natural resources and must be reconsidered. To read the full letter click here.
09.25.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the resignation of U.S. House Speaker John Boehner, who has been speaker since 2011. “Speaker Boehner displayed a true act of leadership, sacrifice and humility. John is the most pro-life and pro-defense speaker that I have served with. Cathy and I want to thank Speaker Boehner and his wife Debbie for their service to the people of Ohio and the nation. Background: Speaker Boehner has represented Ohio’s 8th congressional district since 1991. He served as Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor, Republican Conference Chair, House Majority Leader, House Minority Leader and Speaker.
09.24.2015	The deadline is fast approaching for young men and women interested in securing a congressional nomination to a U.S. Military service academy. Applications are due to the congressman's office by Friday, October 2. "One of my most rewarding congressional duties is nominating future military leaders to study at America’s service academies,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "The exceptional young men and women who receive these coveted nominations earn a top of the line education and the opportunity to serve their country as a military officer." share: f t The deadline is fast approaching for young men and women interested in securing a congressional nomination to a U.S. Military service academy. Applications are due to the congressman's office by Friday, October 2. "One of my most rewarding congressional duties is nominating future military leaders to study at America’s service academies,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "The exceptional young men and women who receive these coveted nominations earn a top of the line education and the opportunity to serve their country as a military officer." To receive a service academy nomination from Congressman Brady, candidates must reside in the Eighth District of Texas, be a United States Citizen, be between the ages of 17 and 23 and unmarried. All applicants must submit a completed and signed Application for Nomination, official high school and/or college transcripts that show GPA and class rank, official SAT or ACT scores and 3 letters of recommendation. A community board reviews the applications and conducts interviews of all the applicants in November. Interested students who meet the above criteria should contact Congressman Brady's Academy Coordinator Vita Swarers at (877) 441-5700 or vita.swarers@mail.house.gov with any questions concerning the application process. Applications can be found online on Congressman Brady's website at: /constituent-services/service-academy-nominations.htm.
09.24.2015	Brady: His spiritual message of love and prayer are especially timely for a nation and a Washington that is deeply divided. share: f t Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the address by his Holiness, Pope Francis, before a joint meeting of Congress, the first by a pope. “As a Catholic I am thrilled to witness firsthand this unique moment in history where the pope addresses a joint meeting of Congress. His spiritual message of love and prayer are especially timely for a nation and a Washington that is deeply divided. His call for lawmakers and the President to show the courage and intelligence to resolve America’s many crises is sorely needed, because too many in both parties are fearful of finding common ground even when it advances our principles and strengthens America. As for the poor among us, he called for more caring but not more government. He recognizes that local churches and charities can often reach the poor more humanely and more personally than governments which can trap individuals in a cycle of poverty. As a member of the Pro-Life Caucus I had hoped Pope Francis would have devoted more time on the human rights issue of our time – the protection of the unborn – which claims 300,000 innocent lives a year in America.” Background: Jorge Mario Bergolio, Pope Francis, was born in 1936 in Buenos Aires, Argentina to Italian immigrant parents. He became the Archbishop of Buenos Aires in 1998 and promoted to Cardinal in 2001 by Pope John Paul II. He was elected to his Papacy at 76 and is the first Jesuit pope, the first pope from an American continent, and the first non-European pope since 741. This is his first visit to the United States. For a detailed itinerary of the Pope’s visit please click here.
09.18.2015	Washington, DC — Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a longtime member of the Pro-Life Caucus, released the following statement on the passage of the two key bills he sponsors: The Defund Planned Parenthood Act and The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. The first bill stops taxpayer-financed abortions at organizations like Planned Parenthood; the second creates criminal penalties for organizations that refuse to provide care for babies born alive in abortion clinics. “It’s time to end this taxpayer-funded attack on human life in America. No federal dollars should ever be used to fund organizations like Planned Parenthood whose gruesome practices of illegally harvesting the tissues and organs of unborn children for profit have finally been revealed to the public. And workers who callously stand by and refuse to provide medical care to babies born alive in these abortion clinics should face criminal penalties. Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life as I am, this is common ground we can all agree upon. “Protecting the unborn is the most serious human rights issue of our time. Those like President Obama who defend the funding and gruesome practices of Planned Parenthood are on the wrong side of history.” Background: Congressman Diane Black introduced The Defund Planned Parenthood Act (H.R. 3134), it will place a one-year moratorium on federal funding for Planned Parenthood unless Planned Parenthood certifies it will not provide or fund another organization that performs abortions. The House will also vote on an amendment to shift funding that would otherwise go to Planned Parenthood to other women’s health providers so that women can receive the care they need without forcing taxpayers to fund abortions. This moratorium will give Congress the time to investigate whether or not Planned Parenthood engaged in illegal activity and the extent of its shocking practices. Congressman Trent Franks introduced The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 3504), it would save the lives of abortion survivors by imposing criminal penalties on medical professionals who fail to try and save a child born alive after an abortion attempt. Earlier this year we heard in emotional testimonies given by abortion survivors to the House Judiciary Committee, they were the lucky ones who were given life-saving treatment after a failed abortion attempt. Many others who are born alive are left to die or killed after the abortion attempt. There are already federal laws requiring assistance to babies born alive during an abortion procedure, but these laws have been violated. This bill will put teeth on those laws, and hopefully save the lives of more children. To view Congressman Brady’s floor speech on defunding Planned Parenthood click here.
09.17.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA) introduced H.R.3520, the Pulmonary Hypertension Research and Diagnosis Act of 2015, which directs the Department of Health and Human Services to create an interagency committee to coordinate all efforts within the Department concerning pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary hypertension is a rare, debilitating disease that affects the arteries of the lungs and can lead to heart failure, often affecting women and children. Congressman Brady noted that, “In the 15 years I’ve been fighting this rare disease, we are making good progress but we need to do more. Better coordination among health agencies will help us diagnose the disease sooner and identify treatments for this rare and too often fatal disease.” This year Congressman Brady sat down with Dr. George Mallory, a pediatric pulmonologist at Texas Children’s Hospital in Houston, to discuss some of the challenges to treatment in children. Dr. Mallory added, “I applaud Representative Kevin Brady for his efforts to raise awareness within our government and country about the uncommon, but often devastating condition known as pulmonary hypertension (PH). PH results from a number of different diseases and affects children and adults of all ages. Despite advances in treatment over the last 20 years, there is great room for more resources, more education and more informed medical care of these individuals.” The Pulmonary Hypertension Association has long supported the legislation and the bipartisan efforts in Congress to get the bill across the finish line. Megan Stehling, Executive Director at the Lone Star Chapter of the Pulmonary Hypertension Association, added “Unfortunately, the treatments are complex and still leave many PHers unable to work and struggling to find a ‘new normal’ in their personal lives. The Pulmonary Hypertension Association salutes Congressman Brady and Congresswoman Capps who have championed this bipartisan bill for seeking solutions that will give those with PH longer, better lives.” Background: According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) pulmonary hypertension is most common among women, non-Hispanic blacks, and among people aged 75 or older with the average diagnosis age being 36 years old. While no cure exists for this rare disease, treatment options are available to help minimize the effects. Commonly diagnosed as asthma, current research efforts focus on finding quicker, less invasive ways to diagnose the disease. Other supporting organizations include: American Lung Association American Medical Association American Association for Respiratory Care American Thoracic Society The text of the legislation can be found here.
09.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement upon today’s Statement from the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which indicates the FOMC has once again deferred normalizing monetary policy. “Today’s FOMC decision has less to do with the underlying weakness of the economy than the timidity of the Fed to take the first necessary step to normalize monetary policy. As long as the Fed remains fearful to act less it be blamed for any economic hiccup, market uncertainty will continue.”
09.08.2015	Washington, DC — Today Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Members Kevin Brady (R-TX), Sam Johnson (R-TX), and Kenny Marchant (R-TX) released the following joint statement on a new peer-reviewed study published by the British Medical Journal which concluded that physician-owned hospitals are not cherry-picking patients or limiting themselves to the most lucrative types of procedures and operations. "Physician-owned hospitals in America provide our communities with access to high-quality health care services. But outdated laws that limit choices for local patients have prevented hospitals owned by trusted doctors from expanding their services to serve the increasing needs of patients. The recently released study offers new evidence supporting the important work of these hospitals and is yet another reason Congress should act now to remove the arbitrary moratorium on physician-owned hospital expansion.” Background: The study, authored by doctors from Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard School of Public Health and The University of California, San Francisco and published by one of the world’s oldest and most respected medical journals, disputes more than a decade of previous research into the topic and concludes it was a mistake to judge physician-owned hospitals by just looking at those that specialize in narrow types of services. Of the doctor-owned hospitals the researchers identified 99 were specialty hospitals, but the majority, 120, were general acute hospitals. Those hospitals had sicker patients and more low-income and minority patients than did the specialty hospitals, even though both types were owned by doctors. Together, patients at physician-owned hospitals were slightly healthier than those at hospitals doctors did not own, but patients had similar death rates and faced the same numbers of chronic diseases. On May 21, 2015, Representative Sam Johnson introduced H.R. 2513, a bill that allows existing hospitals with physician ownership to add beds, operating rooms and procedure rooms when necessary.
09.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement based upon today’s release of the Employment Situation Report for August 2015 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which reported an increase of 173,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (140,000 in the private sector) and that the unemployment rate fell to 5.1%: “America is looking for a strong sustained recovery, so from that standpoint the jobs numbers are just lousy, especially the slower growth in Main Street jobs. The disappointing reality is that the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap got bigger – again. President Obama needs to step up to the plate and work with Republicans in Congress to kick our economy into high gear.” Private-sector Jobs Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries lasting longer than one year, the private sector jobs gap increased to 5,798,000 from 5,772,000. Compared with the Reagan recovery of the 1980s, the gap increased to 12,765,000 from 12,577,000. Closing the Gap. Eliminating the Obama recovery's private-sector jobs gap with the average of other post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016 would require the addition of 487,000 private sector jobs in each of the next 16 months. Closing the gap compared with the Reagan recovery would require the addition of 970,000 private sector jobs in each of the next 16 months. At This Pace. Private-sector job gains have averaged 190,000 over the past six months. At that pace the private-sector jobs gap compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries would be reduced by 18 percent (1,043,000) to 4,755,000 by the end of 2016. Labor Force Participation Rate. The labor force participation rate remained unchanged at 62.6 percent. The labor force participation rate was 66.0 percent when the recession began in December 2007 and 65.7 percent when the recession ended in June 2009. Employment-to-Population Ratio. The employment-to-population ratio increased to 59.4 but remains significantly below its December 2007 level of 62.7 percent when the recession began.
09.02.2015	Washington, DC —Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Congresswoman Diane Black (R-TN), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), and Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D-WA) released the following joint statement on the recently released plans by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI) to create a five-year value based insurance design (VBID) demonstration across seven states. “We are encouraged to see that the agency is finally acting on this important issue and commend them for developing their plan based on an idea within H.R. 2570, The Strengthening Medicare Advantage through Innovation and Transparency for Seniors Act of 2015. We will continue to observe the rollout as it moves forward to make sure that it provides Medicare Advantage plans the necessary flexibility to continue to provide essential coverage to millions of Americans." Background: On June 17, 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2570, the Strengthening Medicare Advantage through Innovation and Transparency for Seniors Act of 2015, by voice vote. H.R. 2570 establishes a demonstration value based insurance design (VBID) program which allows managed care organizations the ability to offer plans with varying benefit structures that lower cost sharing for high value services. The VBID method was first conceptualized by Dr. Mark Fendrick and a multidisciplinary team of faculty at the University of Michigan. This approach is based on the notion that, by lowering a consumer’s cost sharing for essential, high-value clinical services, the consumer will then be motivated to continue their medication and take an active role in maintaining their health. The demonstration program announced yesterday by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation will take place in the following states Arizona, Indiana, Iowa, Massachusetts, Oregon, Pennsylvania and Tennessee and run from January 1, 2017, through January 1, 2022.
08.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement based upon today’s release of the Employment Situation Report for July 2015 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which reported an increase of 215,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (210,000 in the private sector) and that the unemployment rate was unchanged at 5.3 percent. BLS also reported that the labor force participation rate was unchanged at 62.6 percent, the lowest level since October 1977 “It’s bad news that the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap got bigger, not smaller. President Obama needs to work with Republicans in Congress to grow the economy instead of growing the federal government.” Private-sector Jobs Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries lasting more than one year, the private-sector jobs gap rose to 5,772,000. Compared with the Reagan recovery of the 1980s, the gap stands at 12,577,000 – a new high. Closing the Gap. Eliminating the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap compared with the average of post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016 would require the addition of 467,000 private-sector jobs in each of the next 17 months. Closing the gap compared with the Reagan recovery would require 921,000 private-sector jobs in each of the next 17 months. At This Pace. Private-sector job gains have averaged 209,000 over the past six months. At that pace the private-sector jobs gap would be reduced by 24 percent (1,358,000) to 4,387,000 by the end of 2016. Labor Force Participation Rate. The labor force participation rate was unchanged at 62.6 percent, the lowest since October 1977 when the labor force participation rate was 62.4 percent. Employment-to-Population Ratio. July’s employment-to-population ratio was unchanged at 59.3 percent. At 59.3 percent, the employment-to-population ratio is once again below where it stood when the recession ended in June 2009 and significantly worse than the 62.7 percent in December 2007 when the recession began. Unemployment Rate. The unemployment rate would be 9.7 percent if the labor force participation rate was at the level it was when President Obama took office (65.7 percent). Revisions to GDP and Personal Income. On Thursday, July 30, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) revised real GDP lower in its annual benchmark revision. The changes along with new data ballooned the Obama recovery’s growth gap compared with an average recovery to $1.9 trillion (2009$). On Monday, BEA followed suit and reduced past estimates of real disposable personal income per capita. Those changes and new data raised the real annual per person after-tax income gap to $3,549 (2009$).
08.05.2015	The Woodlands, Texas — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that Texas’ voter ID law violates Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act. “I’m disappointed with the Court’s decision. This rule opens the door to voter fraud and weakens the integrity of elections. Texas will continue to fight to maintain a fair and free democratic process.” Background: In an unanimous decision, a three-judge panel ruled that the measure violated Section 2 of the civil rights law.
08.04.2015	The Woodlands, Texas — Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Health Subcommittee of Ways and Means, released the following statement on the fifth video released by the Center for Medical Progress. “We cannot wait any longer to end Federal funding of Planned Parenthood as they continue to profit from these gruesome and inhumane procedures. Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life as I am, Americans have agreed that harvesting the organs and tissues of aborted babies for profit or compensation is both unethical an unlawful. I recently called on Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, one of the largest providers of abortions in Texas, to release data on these and other practices and I will continue to press for answers." Background: Today, the Center for Medical Progress (CMP) released a fifth video. This 15-minute video shows the Director for Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, Melissa Farrell, discussing her affiliate’s experience with collecting and selling fetal organs for research. Farrell also refers to obtaining intact fetal cadavers, and boasts that her “department contributes so much to the bottom line of our organization here, you know we’re one of the largest affiliates, our Research Department is largest in the United States. Larger than any of the other affiliates’ combined.” Congressman Brady’s recent letter to Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast calling for answers to the facilities practices can be found here.
08.04.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement on the passage of H.R. 2912, the Centennial Monetary Commission Act of 2015, through the House Financial Services Committee. The bill would establish a bipartisan Commission to review the history of the Federal Reserve during its first century and recommend the best framework for monetary policy going forward so that the United States will enjoy the world’s strongest economy in the 21st century. “I want to express my deep appreciation Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, for his help in guiding the bill through the committee, and to Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) for his diligence in advocating this legislation before the committee.” Brady added, “As this legislation makes it way toward floor passage and the Senate, I look forward to working with colleagues in both Houses of Congress and in both parties to ensure that we have the correct monetary policy in place going forward. Maintaining the purchasing power of the dollar is the surest foundation for the widespread prosperity of working men and women, and has long made the United States the envy of the world.” Background: Centennial Monetary Commission Act of 2015 establishes the Centennial Monetary Commission to examine how U.S. monetary policy since the creation of the Federal Reserve Board in 1913 has affected the performance of the U.S. economy in terms of output, employment, prices, and financial stability over time; evaluate various operational regimes under which the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee may conduct monetary policy in terms achieving the maximum sustainable level of output and employment and price stability over the long term; and recommend a course for U.S. monetary policy going forward.
08.04.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash), today sent a letter to Eugene Dodaro, Comptroller General of the United States and head of the U.S. Government Accountability Office to evaluate the current structure of our Graduate Medical Education (GME) programs and provide recommendations for improvements. The letter was signed by 27 members of both the House Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce Committees. Congressman Brady noted, “Taxpayers contribute a significant amount of money to our current Graduate Medical Education programs and many medical students rely on the program for their residencies. We owe it to our future doctors and our future generations to ensure that modern training and funding is in place to combat any potential doctor shortage.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers added, “We want to deliver the best possible health care to every community. It’s vital that the makeup of our residency programs reflect the needs of the nation as a whole. This marks the first step in what we expect will be a thorough process that examines what is wrong and explores what can be done to improve our graduate medical education infrastructure.” Background: Graduate Medical Education programs span our federal government, including the Indian Health Service, the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Health Resources and Services Administration. The Federal government spends approximately $15 billion on financing for these programs—with the majority of funding coming from the Medicare program. Congressman Kevin Brady and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers hope to have further discussions with the medical community on the status of our Graduate Medical Education programs while they await the Government Accountability Office study. The letter to Comptroller Dodaro can be found here.
08.03.2015	In this week’s Monday Morning Memo podcast, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady seeks answers from Planned Parenthood in Houston. share: f t In this week’s Monday Morning Memo podcast, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady seeks answers from Planned Parenthood in Houston. Congress – especially the U.S. House of Representatives is on a productive streak with efforts to stop Red Tape and make the VA accountable to veterans and taxpayers. Medicare turns 50. August is packed with town hall meetings where the unpopular Iran deal is likely to be a hot topic.
07.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee made the following comment on a new Joint Economic Committee staff analysis of federal revenues. “If ever there was proof that ‘Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem’, this is it. The federal government is gorging on the earnings of hardworking taxpayers, and yet President Obama and congressional Democrats demand more. Washington has all the money it needs, just not all the money it wants – it needs to learn the difference.” During the twelve month period ending June 2015, the federal government collected $10,060 per person from United States’ residents and military personnel serving abroad. After adjusting for inflation, this marks the fourth highest per person revenue collections over a twelve month period on record. The highest recorded revenues over a twelve month period, adjusted for inflation, was the twelve month period ending April 2001 when the federal government collected $10,144 (June 2015 dollars). The brief analysis notes that if the current trend in per person revenue collections continues a new record may be set by the end of the fiscal year in September. The analysis can be accessed here.
07.30.2015	Washington, DC — Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Health Subcommittee of Ways and Means, released a letter to Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, an affiliate of Planned Parenthood of America Inc., requesting information on the number of fetal organs and tissues they have harvested over the last three years. “Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life as I am, Americans have agreed that harvesting the organs and tissues of aborted babies for profit or compensation is both unethical and unlawful. Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast is one of the largest providers of abortions in Texas. While Congress intends to conduct thorough investigations over Planned Parenthood’s potentially illegal harvesting-for-profit practices, I and many of my constituency are troubled by the likelihood of similar organ-harvesting practices occurring at the Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast (PPGC) affiliate in Houston.” Background: Congressman Brady’s letter to Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast can be found here.
07.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement on the today’s release by Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) that real GDP grew at an annual rate of 2.3 percent during the 2nd-quarter of 2015. “The Obama recovery’s failure on growth is even worse than previously reported. Without stronger growth, good jobs will remain in short supply and incomes will continue to stagnate.” Economy Smaller than Previously Reported. BEA had previously estimated 1st-quarter GDP was $16.287 trillion (2009$). That number was revised down by $110.4 billion (2009$). BEA’s advance estimate of $16.270 trillion (2009$) for 2nd-quarter 2015 real GDP is actually lower than previously reported for the 1st-quarter 2015. Average Post-1960 Recoveries. During other recoveries lasting longer than one year, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.0 percent in the six years following a recession. During the strong Reagan recovery of the 1980s, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.8 percent over a comparable period. Real GDP has grown at an annual rate of only 2.1 percent during the current recovery. Growth Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries, the growth gap in real GDP stands at $1.894 trillion (2009$), up from $1.801 trillion (2009$) last quarter. Compared with the Reagan recovery, the growth gap stands at $2.767 trillion (2009$). Eliminating the Growth Gap. In order to eliminate the growth gap in real GDP compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016, real GDP would need to growth at an annual rate of 10.1 percent over the next six quarters. To catch up with the Reagan recovery, real GDP would need to grow at an annual rate of 14.2 percent over the next six quarters. Real GDP growth per capita. In the six years since the recession ended, real GDP per capita has grown at an annualized rate of 1.3 percent. The average per capita growth rate over a comparable period in other post-1960 recoveries was 2.9 percent. In Reagan recovery real GDP growth per capita was 3.9 percent. The per capita growth gap compared with other post-1960 recoveries stands at $4,815 (2009$) and at $8,128 (2009$) when compared with the Reagan recovery.
07.29.2015	Washington, DC — U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2015, which would require Congress to give final approval over any major rule that costs more than $100 million. “Red tape from Washington is strangling Main Street and middle class America. It’s one of the key reasons America is suffering with the most disappointing economic recovery in half a century. To get local businesses hiring again and people back to work, Congress needs to be able to thoughtfully review and stop new Washington-knows-best mandates before they hurt our economy and hardworking taxpayers. Background: The Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act would require Federal agencies to submit major rules over $100 million to Congress for approval before they could take effect. This would all but guarantee Republicans the ability to block dozens of controversial rules from the Obama administration.
07.29.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the Health Subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of Medicare, an insurance program that aids more than 50 million American seniors and disabled. “Medicare is a critically important health care program but it faces insolvency in a short 15 years. Republicans and Democrats need to work together, to act now to save Medicare for the long term. Our seniors and future Americans are counting on us. “This year Congress acted successfully to achieve the first important step in saving Medicare by solving the way Medicare pays local doctors. For step two, the Ways & Means Committee is already hard at work on improving the way Medicare pays our health care providers such as hospitals, nursing homes, rehabilitation hospitals and other post-acute services for seniors. And next year we will turn our attention to the third and final step to saving Medicare for the long term which is offering better and smarter personalized Medicare options for seniors. None of this is easy, but it’s critical if we want to keep the promise of Medicare for another 50 years.” Background: On July 30, 1965 President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law legislation that established the Medicare and Medicaid programs to serve as health-insurance programs for Americans who did not have coverage. Ahead of the 50th anniversary of Medicare Congressman Brady participated in the National Journal's ​The Future of Medicare Forum​. To watch his speech on the path forward for the program click here.
07.23.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 3009, The Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act which withholds federal funds from local governments that do not abide by current law enforcement laws when dealing with criminal suspects living in the U.S. illegally: “When an undocumented immigrant is arrested for criminal behavior in your community, should local politicians intentionally ignore the law and block their police from reporting the criminal suspect to federal immigration officials? The simple answer is no, and there should be consequences since this puts our families and neighborhoods at risk.” Background: H.R. 3009 bars state and local governments from receiving federal funds under the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program if such entities have in effect laws, policies, or procedures that inhibit the enforcement of immigration laws or that prohibit state or local law enforcement officials from gathering information regarding the citizenship or immigration status of any individual. The bill also requires the Attorney General to withhold Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) and Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) funding that a state or local government otherwise would have been awarded for the following fiscal year if such entity impedes immigration enforcement in a manner prohibited by the bill.
07.20.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), released the following statement on the Planned Parenthood video describing the sale of fetal body parts. “Planned Parenthood doesn’t deserve Federal funding; they are responsible for more than 30,000 abortions each year preventing thousands of families who choose adoption, like mine, from raising healthy and happy babies. Recent revelations give Congress all the more reason to defund Planned Parenthood and any companies that buy and sell the body parts and organs of unborn children. That’s why I and 125 of my colleagues have sent a letter to the Energy & Commerce and Judiciary Committees asking them to investigate the organization.” Background: In a recently released video a top Planned Parenthood executive describes huddling with tissue brokers to determine what organs they would like to “procure” and altering procedures to make sure she is able to obtain the necessary body parts. Also in the video, the executive discusses payments of $30-$100 for fetal body parts. She further indicates that they want to avoid being perceived as selling tissue, so they want to come up with a rate that “looks like it is a reasonable number for the effort that is allotted on their part.” Mr. Brady is also a cosponsor of H.R. 217, the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act. This bill prohibits the Department of Health and Human Service (HHS) from providing federal family planning assistance to an entity unless the entity certifies that the entity will not perform, and will not provide funds to any other entity that performs, an abortion. A copy of the letter sent to the Energy & Commerce and Judiciary Committees can be found here.
07.14.2015	Washington, DC — Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the President’s final agreement on Iran’s nuclear program: “Congress will have time to assess the proposed Iran agreement, but clearly this is not about Republican versus Democrats, it’s about true security versus false security at a key moment in global history. Does President Obama’s agreement stop Iran’s nuclear capability for the long term? Does it prevent the spread of nuclear weapons in the Middle East? And does it make America and our allies like Israel safer? I suspect the answer to all three is ‘no’. Nothing less than complete dismantling of Iran’s nuclear program is acceptable.” Background: On May 22, 2015, the President signed into law H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which requires Congress be given an opportunity to review any final international agreement on Iran’s nuclear program before the President could waive or suspend any sanctions on Iran that were imposed by Congress. Under this law, the President has five days to submit to Congress the text of the agreement and all related materials.
07.07.2015	Washington. DC — Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Acting Director Andy Slavitt’s response to a letter from the Congressman and Ways and Means members requesting more information on the agency’s contingency plan ahead of the implementation of the 10th revision of the International Classification Diseases, Clinical Modification (ICD-10), a coding system used by doctors and health-care providers. “While I am pleased to see the agency partner with the American Medical Association and take commonsense steps consistent with what I and other members of the Ways and Means Committee have called for to make the transition to ICD-10 smoother and more flexible for providers, I remain cautious. I hope the agency will continue its due diligence ahead of the October 1, 2015, rollout so that we can avoid another healthcare.gov debacle for our providers and the broader public.” Background: On June 1, 2015, Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Brady and 12 members of the Committee sent a letter to CMS seeking a smooth transition to the new ICD-10 coding system. Acting Administrator Slavitt provided a detailed response to the their letter on July 6, 2015. Chairman Brady’s letter can be found here. The agency’s response can be found here.
07.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement based upon today’s release of Employment Situation Report for June 2015 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), which reported an increase of 223,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (all in the private sector) and the unemployment rate declined to 5.3 percent. BLS also reported that the labor force participation rate declined to 62.6 percent, the lowest level since October 1977. Both the labor force and the number of people counted as employed declined in June. “Today’s jobs report is indicative of the Obama recovery’s six years of failure. The harsh reality is that the Obama recovery has failed to produce enough jobs to bring relief to Main Street America.” Private-sector Jobs Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries lasting more than one year, the private-sector jobs gap rose to 5,725,000. Compared with the Reagan recovery of the 1980s, the gap stands at 12,346,000 – a new high. Closing the Gap. Eliminating the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap compared with the average of post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016 would require the addition of 453,000 private-sector jobs in each of the next 18 months. Closing the gap compared with the Reagan recovery would require 882,000 private-sector jobs in each of the next 18 months. At This Pace. Private-sector job gains have averaged 207,000 over the past six months. At that pace the private-sector jobs gap would be reduced by 23 percent (1,295,000) to 4,430,000 by the end of 2016. Labor Force Participation Rate. The labor force participation rate declined by 0.3 percentage point to 62.6 percent, the lowest since October 1977 when the labor force participation rate was 62.4 percent. Employment-to-Population Ratio. June’s employment-to-population ratio declined by 0.1 percentage point to 59.3 percent. At 59.3 percent the employment-to-population ratio is once again below where it stood when the recession ended six years ago and significantly worse than the 62.7 percent in December 2007 when the recession began. Unemployment Rate. The unemployment rate would be 9.7 percent if the labor force participation rate was at the level it was when President Obama took office (65.7 percent).
06.29.2015	“No family or small business wants to pay more for electricity because of Washington red tape. This decision is a blessing for those who simply can’t afford to pay more.” share: f t Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the Michigan v. EPA ruling. In a narrow 5-4 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court sided with American families and businesses over the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) which ignored excessive costs in efforts to regulate power plant emissions. “No family or small business wants to pay more for electricity because of Washington red tape. This decision is a blessing for those who simply can’t afford to pay more.” BACKGROUND: The question in Michigan v. EPA was whether the Environmental Protection Agency unreasonably refused to consider costs before determining rules. The justices held that the EPA’s refusal to consider the financial impacts of their regulations was unreasonable.
06.26.2015	"My strong, sincerely-held belief is that marriage is a union between one man and one woman. The Supreme Court should have upheld the 10th Amendment of the Constitution, and left this principled issue to the voters and their elected representatives in each state." share: f t Today the U.S. Supreme Court overturned traditional marriage laws and constitutional amendments nationwide. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a pro-family conservative, issued the following statement: "My strong, sincerely-held belief is that marriage is a union between one man and one woman. The Supreme Court should have upheld the 10th Amendment of the Constitution, and left this principled issue to the voters and their elected representatives in each state." BACKGROUND: In a sharply divided 5-4 decision, The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the 14th Amendment requires all states issue a marriage license to same sex couples and recognize out of state same sex marriages. Ten years ago, Texas voters overwhelming voted to add an amendment to the Texas Constitution defining marriage as between one man and one woman.
06.25.2015	“This Supreme Court ought to get an Olympic gold medal for the torturous legal gymnastics it displays shoring up the unconstitutional and unworkable Affordable Care Act. Apparently words in law simply don’t matter." share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, chairman of a key congressional health care panel, released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s ruling in King v. Burwell that taxpayer-funded health insurance subsidies can be granted to individuals in the Federal Exchange despite clear legal language to the contrary. “This Supreme Court ought to get an Olympic gold medal for the torturous legal gymnastics it displays shoring up the unconstitutional and unworkable Affordable Care Act. Apparently words in law simply don’t matter. Nonetheless, I will continue to fight for full repeal of ObamaCare because of the harm it’s causing to patients, families and my local businesses. And I will continue to stand against this broken law until all Americans are free from the burdens of expensive, government approved health care they don’t want and can’t afford." Background: The Affordable Care Act provides subsidies for lower and middle income individuals to purchase health insurance. Each state was encouraged to set up an exchange in which individuals could purchase these health insurance options. In cases where states did not choose to set up an exchange, the Federal government offer health insurance options on their own Federal exchange. Thirty-four states, including Texas, declined to set up their own state-based exchanges. The plain language of the statute makes premium subsidies available to only those individuals who enroll in an “Exchange established by the State.” Last year, in Halbig vs. Burwell, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held in a 2-1 decision that the Internal Revenue Service broke the law in promulgating regulations, which authorize the IRS to provide premium subsidies for insurance purchased on the Federal exchange.
06.24.2015	“Raising Americans utility bills with more Washington red tape is the wrong way forward. Too many families and businesses are already struggling and they don’t need higher costs in the name of Global Warming. Reining in the overreaching EPA and allowing governors to put their electricity grid’s reliability and the needs of their citizens first just makes good common sense.” share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2042, the Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015 to protect families and businesses from expensive new global warming rules on power plants. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement on this important bill. “Raising Americans utility bills with more Washington red tape is the wrong way forward. Too many families and businesses are already struggling and they don’t need higher costs in the name of Global Warming. Reining in the overreaching EPA and allowing governors to put their electricity grid’s reliability and the needs of their citizens first just makes good common sense.” BACKGROUND H.R. 2042 empowers states to protect households and businesses from the harmful effects of EPA’s proposed rule regulating carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. A complete list of letters of support provided by the House Energy and Commerce Committee can be found here.
06.23.2015	“I am standing up for seniors in my congressional district who rely on Medicare. We will not give unelected Washington bureaucrats unlimited power to ration health care payments for Medicare treatment. We are fully repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board and challenge Republicans and Democrats in the Senate to help protect America’s seniors.” share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to repeal another controversial component of the President’s unpopular health insurance law, the Independent Payment Advisory Board. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), who leads the House Ways & Means subcommittee on Health, released the following statement about H.R. 1190, The Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act of 2015. “I am standing up for seniors in my congressional district who rely on Medicare. We will not give unelected Washington bureaucrats unlimited power to ration health care payments for Medicare treatment. We are fully repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board and challenge Republicans and Democrats in the Senate to help protect America’s seniors.” Background: The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), created in the Affordable Care Act, has the power to cut Medicare’s payments for treatments without Congress’s approval. The future cuts won’t ration payments to seniors but will ration reimbursement for treatment to senior’s doctors and other health care providers.
06.18.2015	America doesn’t increase access to affordable health care by taxing pacemakers, artificial joints, heart valves and MRI machines. By voting to repeal this tax, the House is working to save almost 40,000 good paying American jobs and save patients higher costs on medical devices. share: f t Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 160 – Protect Medical Innovation Act which repeals the Affordable Care Act’s medical device tax. “Taxing life-saving medical devices is a terrible way to fund health care. America doesn’t increase access to affordable health care by taxing pacemakers, artificial joints, heart valves and MRI machines. By voting to repeal this tax, the House is working to save almost 40,000 good paying American jobs and save patients higher costs on medical devices.” Background: The Protect Medical Innovation Act amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical devices added to the federal tax code in the Affordable Care Act.
06.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement upon today’s Statement from the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which indicates the FOMC is moving closer to normalizing monetary policy. “The Fed has been successful in producing a boom on Wall Street that has left most of Main Street America behind. It’s time for the Fed to begin reducing the size of its bloated balance sheet and clearly signal a gradual but certain return to normalcy in monetary policy.”
06.17.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), released the following statement on the U.S. House’s vote against H.Con.Res. 55, a bill offered by Representative Jim McGovern to remove United States Armed Forces deployed to Iraq or Syria on or after August 7, 2014, other than armed forces required to protect United States diplomatic facilities and personnel. “We cannot place our nation, our families and our communities at risk of further terrorist attacks. We have seen the consequences of leaving regions like Syria and Iraq early. I can think of nothing worse than to add to the uncertainty and increase the power of the growing threats throughout the region.” Background: The U.S. has more than 3,500 U.S. ground forces in Iraq currently training Iraqi military forces to combat ISIL. Not only have multiple national security assessments indicated that ISIL could pose a direct threat to the U.S. homeland, the State Department has already designated it a foreign terrorist organization. While the U.S. has no troops in Syria, it has carried out air strikes against ISIL. This Resolution would inhibit U.S. air power over Iraq and Syria by removing intelligence assets or forward air control observers on the ground.
06.17.2015	Washington, DC —Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of The Increasing Regulatory Fairness Act increases which increases the amount of time stakeholders have to review and provide feedback on changes to the popular Medicare Advantage program to ensure our local seniors continue to have access to quality low-cost plans. “Shouldn’t our local seniors have the best options in health care? It was essential to provide more time for comment to ensure the Medicare Advantage program continues to provide low-cost, competitive health insurance options to our local seniors. Congress must work together to strengthen and preserve the Medicare Advantage program for the millions of seniors that rely on it for their health insurance and protect the program for future generations.” Background: The Increasing Regulatory Fairness Act of 2015 extends the annual regulatory schedule for commenting on MA payment rates from 45 days to 60 days. As MA policy becomes more complex and more beneficiaries enroll in the program, greater time for outside review and analysis improves the transparency of the process. Other bills passed by voice vote: H.R. 2505 – Medicare Advantage Coverage Transparency Act of 2015: Requires CMS to publish Medicare Advantage enrollment data by Congressional District on an annual basis. This data increases transparency with respect to Medicare beneficiary enrollment and will assist Congress in making informed policy decisions moving forward. H.R. 2582 – Seniors’ Health Care Plan Protection Act of 2015: Delays authority of CMS, for three years, to terminate MA plans failing to achieve minimum quality ratings under the MA STARS Rating Program. H.R. 2570 – Strengthening Medicare Advantage through Innovation and Transparency for Seniors Act of 2015: Would establish a demonstration program requiring the utilization of Value Based Insurance Design to demonstrate that reducing the copayments or coinsurance charged to Medicare beneficiaries for selected high value prescription medications and clinical services can increase their utilization and ultimately improve clinical outcomes and lower health care expenditures.
06.15.2015	In this week’s Monday Morning Memo podcast, Congressman Kevin Brady clears up the confusion over TPA and TPP and puts to rest some internet trade rumors. The House passes annual infrastructure and military funding while repealing a 2009 law that would have forced a $3 billion fine on American taxpayers. Finally, Texas Congressional District 8 sends off incoming military academy cadets and midshipmen at an annual district event.
06.12.2015	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass Trade Promotion Authority,(TPA) in which Congress, not this White House or the next, sets trade rules and ensures that the United States secures the most effective trade agreements possible. On passage of the bill Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), a free trade advocate and the former leader of the Trade Subcommittee of the Ways and Means Committee said: “I voted for more economic freedom for Americans and more jobs for Texas. This bill muscles up the constitutional authority of Congress and advances the economic principles of Ronald Reagan, while rejecting the Hillary Clinton/Elizabeth Warren doctrine that Washington and special interests should control how Americans buy, sell and compete around the world. Today, economic freedom for Americans prevailed.” Background: TPA guarantees Congress a meaningful role in all trade negotiations and increases transparency over previous versions of the bill by empowering Congress to conduct vigorous oversight and hold the administration accountable while requiring the President to publish the text of a completed trade agreement 60 days before signing it. TPA also ensures Congress maintains control over changes to U.S. law and provides rules for considering trade agreements and provides an “Off Switch” which allows Congress to turn off the expedited procedures if the administration fails to meet its TPA obligations.
06.12.2015	Washington, DC — Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on recent news that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services used taxpayer dollars to settle nearly 300,000 claims for $1.3 billion without any approval from Congress. “Where did CMS get the money and where did they get the authority? I, along with my colleagues in the Committee, will investigate the source of the funding for these unlawful hospital payments.” Background: On August 29, 2014, the Secretary of Health and Human Services announced that it would offer hospitals partial payment (68 percent) of the denied inpatient claim in exchange for withdrawing pending appeals. Representative Brady sent a letter on September 15, 2014, expressing grave concern over this alarming appeals “settlement” process. The letter also requested the Administration retract the process and work with Congress to establish a fair, transparent and conclusive settlement process that is in the best interest of beneficiaries, providers and taxpayers.
06.10.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of the “Country of Origin Labeling Amendments Act of 2015” (COOL) which repeals the country of origin labeling requirements for products ranging from meat and wheat to wine, chocolate and even furniture, to bring the U.S. back into compliance with international trading laws and avoid over $3 billion in fines. “Why should Main St. suffer for Washington’s mistake? This was misguided legislation from the start and clearly in violation of our trading rules. The Secretary of Agriculture himself has stated that the Department has no further options for to avoid these fines—Congress must act now. This bill is an essential, targeted reform to fix flawed requirements that will be devastating to our economy and impact nearly every industry, every state and every consumer.” Background: Within five months of its 2009 implementation, Canada and Mexico challenged COOL at the World Trade Organization (WTO), arguing that it had a trade-distorting impact by reducing the value of cattle and hogs shipped to the U.S. market. The WTO ruled in favor Canada and Mexico four times. Canada and Mexico, the United States’ top trade partners will seek more than $3 billion annually in retaliatory sanctions against U.S. exports.
06.09.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of the 2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Bill which funds the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and other related agencies. “To build a healthy economy, we must provide funding to critical infrastructure programs. We must make sure our nation’s roads, skies, and ports keep America competitive by keeping our goods safely moving across the country and around the world. Background: The 2016 federal budget year begins in October. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Bill contains $55.3 billion in discretionary spending – an increase of $1.5 billion from 2015 and $9.7 billion below the President’s budget request.
06.08.2015	In this week’s Monday Morning Memo podcast, how the economy can benefit from trade and congressional passage of important national security reforms. share: f t In this week’s Monday Morning Memo podcast, how the economy can benefit from trade and congressional passage of important national security reforms. The House is funding science and space exploration while stopping the Justice Department from putting limits on your 2nd Amendment rights. The House Ways & Means Committee passed out to the floor a series of bills to make Medicare stronger and more responsive, including two of Congressman Kevin Brady’s bills. The House is playing hardball with State Department funding over their Benghazi Freedom of Information delays. And finally, no federal program should pay more than a job. No programs should trap Americans in poverty. Congress should fund programs that are proven to work without a dime to those that don’t.
06.03.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) released the following statement on approval by the U.S. House of Representatives of next year’s federal funding of the departments of Commerce, Justice, NASA, National Science Foundation and other related agencies. “Increasing funding for science research, space exploration and cybersecurity will preserve America’s lead in the world economy where innovation drives jobs. No less important is fighting the epidemic of prescription drug abuse, improving weather forecasting and protecting our Second Amendment rights which the Justice Department continues to target. “I’m pleased the legislation cuts wasteful spending while also prohibiting illegal gun running operations like “Fast and Furious” and preventing the White House from implementing the U.N. Arms Trade Treaty until the Senate has a chance to weigh in on it.” Background: The 2016 federal budget year begins in October. The Commerce, Justice, Science (CJS) Appropriations bill contains $51.4 billion in total discretionary funding, an increase of $1.3 billion over fiscal year 2015 and $661 million below the President’s request for these programs. The bill prioritizes funding for law enforcement, national security, science, and space exploration programs.
06.03.2015	Washington, DC — Today, House Ways and Means Member Kevin Brady (R-TX) delivered the following testimony during a hearing on protecting the safety net from waste, fraud, and abuse. Good morning and thank you Chairman Boustany and Ranking Member Doggett for providing me the opportunity to testify today. A good paying job is the best solution to income inequality and to ensure the ladder of success is open to all Americans willing to get a skill and work hard. A solid education, workforce training programs that actually perform, and better connecting local workers to local jobs are key to that good paying job. That’s even more important as millions of Americans continue to search for full-time jobs in the most disappointing economic recovery in half a century. Given the half-trillion dollar annual deficits our federal government continues to run, and the damage this does to future generations, when it comes to safety net programs our principles should be clear: No federal program should pay more than a job. No programs should trap Americans in poverty. Fund programs that are proven to work, and not a dime to those that don’t. According to the most recent Census Bureau approximately 17.6 percent of Texans live below the poverty level. Despite a host of federal programs created to end the cycle of poverty, many Americans across the country still live below the poverty line. It’s our job as legislators to protect taxpayer dollars from going towards ineffective programs and redirect them towards programs that do what they were intended to do—which is to help lift individuals out of poverty and into independence. It is also our job to ensure these dollars are not being wasted on improper payments to individuals that don’t qualify for them. In the 2014 budget year the Unemployment Insurance program made a stunning $5.6 billion in improper payments to individuals who don’t quality for them. That’s more than we spend on our nation’s job training system— money that could have been spent on actually getting people the training needed to get back to work quickly. There are several common-sense solutions Congress should take to help reduce wasteful spending in our unemployment program, help get people back to work, and preserve our tax dollars for those that need them. First, stop double dipping of Unemployment benefits by furloughed federal workers. Under current law unemployed civilian federal employees may be eligible for the Unemployment Compensation for Federal Employees program. During the temporary lapse in appropriations that occurred in October 2013, some federal employees were furloughed and applied for and received unemployment benefits. These federal employees were later provided retroactive pay for this same period of “unemployment.” Instead of recovering the overpayments, some states considered allowing their federal employees to get paid twice for not working. Oregon, for example, had a rule that would permit this type of double dipping. If states failed to recover the unemployment overpayments it could cost taxpayers millions of dollars. The Furloughed Federal Employee Double Dip Elimination Act prevents this wasteful spending by clarifying that if a federal employee receives back pay for the period he or she was furloughed, the federal employee is not eligible for unemployment benefits for that same period and would have to repay any unemployment benefits received. While the Department of Labor listened to congressional concerns and sent out strict guidance to states to collect unemployment benefit overpayments, guidance is not the same as law. We need to guarantee that States will recover future overpayments. Another problem plaguing America and our unemployment program is illegal substance abuse. We want Americans to earn paychecks instead of collecting unemployment checks, yet one of the most common reasons individuals cannot return to work is due to the fact that they cannot pass a drug test. In a 2006 report, the Society for Human Resource Management said that 84 percent of private employers conducted pre-employment drug testing. It’s grown larger since, with federal security mandates driving much of the growth. With the majority of employers subjecting job applicants to drug testing, the Federal government should allow states to incorporate drug testing into their UI programs if they believe it will help connect these individuals to full-time employment. The bottom line is that taxpayers shouldn’t subsidize drug use. If you’re on illegal drugs you are simply not job-ready. In short, the federal unemployment program should be a drug free zone. To address this problem The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which was signed by President Obama and supported by many lawmakers on the Ways & Means Committee, included a carefully crafted compromise that, for the first time, allows states to screen and test unemployment recipients for illegal substances. After years of inexcusable delay and roadblocks that ignore the language and intent of the law, the Department of Labor has issued proposed guidance on this provision. However, the proposed guidance is simply unworkable for states that are interested in drug testing their unemployment recipients and getting them the help they need and into a job quickly. The bottom line is that the states are ready to implement and the Federal government must uphold its promise. My home state of Texas has already been recognized by the White House for their innovative ways to get Texans back to work. But again, the White House needs to apply the law and allow states like Texas to continue that innovation when it comes to getting the unemployed back to work and making good wages rather than collecting benefit checks. Thank you again for having me here today. I am committed to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to find real solutions to not only creating more jobs and getting Americans back to work in a pro-business environment, but cleaning up our safety-net programs and making them work for both individuals in need and taxpayers. It is critical we continue to fight to create jobs and reduce the dependence on federal programs without additional government spending, new bureaucracies or crippling debt that will be left to future generations.
06.01.2015	Washington, DC – Ways & Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas and 12 members of the House Ways and Means Committee today sent a letter to Andy Slavitt, Acting Administrator at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, urging the administration to provide a smooth transition for local physicians as CMS rolls out ICD-10, the newest coding system for healthcare professionals to code diseases, signs and symptoms, abnormal findings, complaints, social circumstances, and external causes of injury or diseases. Brady stated, “Our local health-care providers have already taken on the financial and administrative burden of transitioning from ICD-9 to ICD-10. Unlike the disastrous rollout of healthcare.gov in the Affordable Care Act, this Administration owes it to our local doctors to ensure a smooth transition to ICD-10.” The members of Congress urged the Administration to take steps to instill confidence—especially among physicians—and ensure the October 1, 2015 implementation deadline doesn’t cause widespread disruption. Recommendations made by the committee can be found here.
05.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement on the today’s release by Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) of its second estimate of 1st-quarter 2015 GDP. BEA estimates that real GDP fell at an annual rate of 0.7 percent during the 1st-quarter of 2015. In its first estimate, BEA estimated that real GDP grew at an annual rate of 0.2 percent. “This is just another in a disappointing string of news about the economy. The lack of growth experienced in this recovery has led to substandard job growth and stagnant incomes.” Average Post-1960 Recoveries. During other recoveries lasting longer than one year, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.0 percent in the 23 quarters following a recession. During the strong Reagan recovery of the 1980s, real GDP grew at an annual rate of 4.8 percent over a comparable period. Real GDP has grown at an annual rate of only 2.2 percent during the current recovery. Growth Gap. Compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries, the growth gap in real GDP stands at $l.714 trillion (2009$), up from $1.522 trillion (2009$) last quarter. Compared with the Reagan recovery, the growth gap stands at $2.525 trillion (2009$). Eliminating the Growth Gap. In order to eliminate the growth gap in real GDP compared with the average of other post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016, real GDP would need to growth at an annual rate of 8.7 percent over the next seven quarters. To catch up with the Reagan recovery, real GDP would need to grow at an annual rate of 12.1 percent over the next seven quarters.
05.25.2015	As Americans prepared to remember those who paid freedom’s steepest price, the House passed a series of important Veterans bills. share: f t In this week’s Memorial Day Monday Morning Memo podcast, the Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady talks about the free market’s role in saving Medicare, how his office has returned $1.2 million in savings to the taxpayers, new research shows the bureaucratic nightmare that young Americans face in ObamaCare, takes on the bogus claims about free trade and shares good news about innovation and jobs. And as Americans prepared to remember those who paid freedom’s steepest price, the House passed a series of important Veterans bills.
05.20.2015	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), author of The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015 which permanently simplifies and strengthens the now-temporary U.S. Research and Development Tax Credit, released the following statement on President Obama’s veto threat: “Why does the President want to ship America’s research jobs overseas? He knows both parties in Congress have supported this measure on a temporary basis without raising taxes. So stop making excuses and stand up for American jobs and American innovation, Mr. President.”
05.20.2015	Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015, which permanently simplifies and strengthens the now-temporary U.S. Research and Development Tax Credit, by a vote of 274-145. “America’s future depends on innovation occurring here in the U.S. Without the right permanent research and development incentive, we will continue to fall behind our global competitors and watch good paying research jobs go overseas. A permanently strong economy requires a permanent research and development tax credit.”
05.19.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health led by Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), today held the first in a series of hearings exploring how to improve the complicated Medicare payment system for hospitals and other health care providers. The hearing examined competition in Medicare and the potential for expanding access, quality and savings for Medicare patients. Specifically, witnesses discussed a measure by Rep. Sam Johnson of Texas repealing the ban preventing local physician-owned hospitals from growing to meet the needs of their communities. Another idea considered is a bill by Rep. Tom Price of Georgia that repeals and reforms the troubled Medicare bidding process for supplying durable medical equipment to local seniors. Congressman Brady stated “Competition and choice for seniors is a good thing. It drives down costs and increases access while improving quality. Most importantly it places Medicare patients and their needs above the needs of Washington. Competition and choice give families the power to decide what they want to buy and how to stretch their health care dollars. ” The committee questioned a panel of health care experts that included Joe Antos from the American Enterprise Institute, Joe Minissale, President of Methodist McKinney Hospital in Texas, Robert Steedley, President of Barnes Healthcare Services in Georgia and Richard Umbdenstock, President and CEO of the American Hospital Association. Brady added, “It is our responsibility to protect Medicare for today’s seniors and for future generations—increasing competition in the marketplace can help achieve that. We will continue to hold hearings on improving the payment system for hospitals and other health care providers over the course of this year and develop reforms that will help save Medicare for the long term.”
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas is returning another $225,000 in savings from his congressional office budget, surpassing $1.2 million in savings over the past six years. Brady made the announcement as the U.S. House approved passage of a spending bill for 2016 which freezes congressional spending and denies Congress a cost-of-living increase for the seventh consecutive year. “A lot of families and businesses are doing more with less, so our office tries to cut costs wherever we can and return the savings to the Treasury. Even though congressional office budgets have been cut by 14% since Republicans took control of the House, our office has been successful in cutting costs even more. Our team is frugal, and our Texas taxpayers appreciate it.”
05.18.2015	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) has announced that eight students from District 8 have received appointments to a U.S. military service academy. Earlier this year Brady nominated local students, and these were accepted by West Point, the Naval Academy or the Air Force Academy. share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) has announced that nine students from District 8 have received appointments to a U.S. military service academy. Earlier this year Brady nominated local students, and these were accepted by West Point, the Naval Academy or the Air Force Academy. “I’m proud of these young men and women of character who have been selected by our nation’s military academies,” said Brady. “As graduates they will be our nation’s and our community leaders, and that is never more important than in these challenging times.” They are: · Daniel Carroll, Magnolia West High School – The US Naval Academy at Annapolis · Aaron Cheng, the Woodlands College Park High School – The US Military Academy at West Point · Luke Easton, Oak Ridge High School -- The US Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs · Tyler Mortenson, The Woodlands College Park High School -- The US Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs · Nicola Newton, Conroe High School – The US Military Academy at West Point · Collin Page, Klein Collins High School – The US Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs · Maxwell Page, Montgomery High School -- The US Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs · Tyler Rapp, The Woodlands High School -- The US Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs · Corey Sanders, the Woodlands High School -- The US Military Academy at West Point Each member of Congress is guaranteed one appointment to each of the four service academies: Air Force, West Point, Naval, and Merchant Marine. Since the 8th Congressional District of Texas is known for exceptional candidates, Brady’s office consistently has a much higher acceptance level. “America is blessed that so many outstanding young leaders from our district want to serve their nation,” concluded Brady. “These incoming cadets and midshipmen are embarking on a path where they will be tested day in and day out as they learn to be the next generation of military leaders our country needs.” **Updated May 18th with the addition of the 9th candidate.
05.15.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the House passage of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for 2016 which provides the resources for a strong national defense, a pay raise for troops, and reinforces the mission to defeat the terrorist group ISIL. It was approved by a 269 to 151 vote and now goes to the Senate. “A strong military means a safer America. This bill provides full, critical funding for our troops defending our freedoms at home and abroad, including cyber-security, a 2.3% pay raise and a modern new retirement program for incoming members of the armed services. I’m especially pleased with the landmark reforms that target wasteful spending at the Pentagon in overhead and purchasing. Every dollar lost to waste is a dollar lost to troop support or added to the national debt.”
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the House passage of H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 which requires congressional review of a nuclear deal with Iran. “This bill ensures that Congress and the American people have their rightful say in reviewing any agreement on Iran’s nuclear program. We cannot allow the White House to rush into a bad agreement that trades sanctions for a future nuclear Iran that makes our world more dangerous. “Iran does not have America's best interests at heart and I, for one, will not accept any deal that could lead to a potential nuclear nightmare for America and our allies in the Middle East, like Israel.”
05.13.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement as the U.S. House of Representatives acted to shield unborn children from excruciating pain or a near-birth abortion. “This is a human rights issue. Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life, as I am, most Americans agree that when a baby can feel pain or can live outside the mother’s womb than the baby deserves the chance to live their life.” “With today’s medical technology, at five months of pregnancy these infants are within a few weeks of being able to live outside the womb with no lifelong disabilities. They have well developed arms and legs, can be soothed by their mother’s voice and can feel the excruciating pain of an abortion procedure designed to take their lives. They must be protected.” In 2013 a similar bill passed the House, but was not considered in the Democrat-controlled Senate. Rep. Brady added, “As adoptive parents, my wife and I have a wonderful family because two women in two different, difficult circumstances chose life.”
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement on the passage of the USA Freedom Act which balances the nation’s need for security and privacy. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives 338 to 88 with Congressman Brady voting yes. “Timely intelligence is key to protecting Americans here at home from terrorism and threats of violence. We cannot allow our intelligence protection to be hollowed out, especially since it works hand and glove with our military to help them defeat terrorism abroad. All this critical work has to be done while protecting our constitutional rights as Americans. While I’m skeptical that ending the bulk collection of meta data better protects our privacy or improves our intelligence security, overall this bill will help protect our nation from terrorist threats from abroad and within the country.”
05.06.2015	East Texas – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady recently helped pass a two year extension of the Secure Rural Schools funding program in Congress, assuring that critical financial support continues for East Texas counties with federal forest lands. The Secure Rural Schools & Community Self-Determination Act was included in a new law that improves the way the government pays local doctors to treat Medicare patients – a major reform of Medicare led by Brady who chairs a key health care panel in Congress. The timber act expired in September 2013, which resulted in a loss of funding last year to support critical programs in local schools and forested counties across Texas, including Houston, Montgomery, San Jacinto, Trinity and Walker counties. The measure provided that Texas forested counties will receive $2.3 million in Secure Rural Schools funding by June 1, 2015. “This funding is critical for my East Texas schools and counties, helping avoid higher property taxes or cuts in critical road, bridge and education services”, said Brady. “I’m proud to be working hand-in-hand with our county judges, commissioners and leaders to secure this funding until a permanent solution can pass Congress.” East Texas alone is home to over a dozen national forests.
04.30.2015	Washington D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas, has been re-appointed to the Social Security subcommittee of the powerful House Ways & Means Committee. He served on the panel for more than a decade before stepping aside earlier this year to focus on tax, trade and health care issues. “This gives my constituents a stronger voice on key national issues that affect seniors, the disabled, and retired teachers, firefighters and law enforcement,” said Brady. “From this post I’ll continue to push Congress to act now to save Social Security for every generation and to reform the disability program to help the truly disabled, eliminate fraud and reward those who want to return to work.” The Social Security panel is key to one of Brady’s top priorities – legislation to repeal the Windfall Elimination Act and restore equal treatment in Social Security for retired teachers, firefighters and law enforcement. He and Massachusetts Democrat Richard Neal recently introduced a new version that improves the solvency of Social Security and is widely supported by public servant groups.
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Two senior members of the House Ways & Means Committee are continuing their quest to remove a 1980’s era tax provision that discourages foreign investment in U.S. real estate. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Joe Crowley (D-NY) have re-introduced The Real Estate Investment and Jobs Act of 2015 (H.R. 2128). The bill would alter the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 which requires foreign investors to pay taxes on profits earned when selling properties or real estate securities in the United States. It also exempts from the FIRPTA tax foreign pension funds investing in commercial real estate. Says Brady, “In a world of fluid global capital, the tax code shouldn’t discourage foreign capital from investing in U.S. commercial real estate, nor discriminate against it with higher taxes than other U.S. investments. Modernizing FIRPTA and encouraging foreign investment will boost job growth and expand our local economies.” “The U.S. is among the world’s best places to invest – but foreign investments in commercial real estate are sorely behind other industries because of uneven tax treatment. What’s clear is that the law that is on the books does more harm than good, and something must be done,” said Rep. Crowley, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. “Our bill will encourage and lead to greater foreign investment in U.S. real estate and will help boost our economy in cities across the country.” In a recent Association of Foreign Investors in Real Estate (AFIRE) member survey, 76 percent of respondents said that FIRPTA tax relief would spur their investment in U.S. real estate. Legislative History: In the 113th Congress, the Real Estate Investment and Jobs Act of 2013 was cosponsored by 69 Members of the House of Representatives (36 Republicans, 33 Democrats), including almost every member of the Ways and Means Committee. In February, the Senate Finance Committee unanimously passed a version of the Real Estate Investment and Jobs Act, and the House passed a similar bill in 2010 by a vote of 402-11. The Real Estate Investment and Jobs Act of 2015 doubles the FIRPTA tax exemption from 5% to 10% for foreign shareholders in U.S. Public REITs and exempts foreign pension funds from the FIRPTA tax entirely.
04.23.2015	In the bipartisan measure Congress directs the White House to negotiate trade agreements to congressional priorities, increases congressional consultation in trade negotiations and ensures only congress can change trade laws. The goal is to tear down trade barriers so America can sell more products and services overseas and creating good paying jobs for American workers. share: f t Washington, DC – Today the House Ways and Means Committee approved Trade Promotion Authority by a 25-13 vote. In the bipartisan measure Congress directs the White House to negotiate trade agreements to congressional priorities, increases congressional consultation in trade negotiations and ensures only congress can change trade laws. The goal is to tear down trade barriers so America can sell more products and services overseas and creating good-paying jobs for American workers. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), former chairman of the trade subcommittee, said, “with 95% of the world’s customers outside our borders, American business and workers need a strong TPA. We need to remove barriers to American success and open new markets to American made products so that we can create good-paying jobs, save American families money and increase economic freedom.” This bill requires the White House to publish the text of a completed trade agreement 60 days before signing it, while providing an “Off Switch” which allows Congress to turn off the expedited procedures if the administration fails to meet its TPA obligations. Brady added, “If we want a healthier economy it's not enough to simply 'buy American', we need to 'sell American' throughout the world. This clear, bipartisan legislation will ensure that America is competing on a level playing field and remains a leader in the global marketplace."
04.17.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Kevin Brady today released the following statement on Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Ranking Member Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and House Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan’s (R-Wis.) introduction of bipartisan, bicameral Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation. "With 95% of the world’s customers outside our borders, American business and workers need a strong TPA that knocks down trade barriers and opens new markets to American made products. If we want a healthier economy it's not enough to simply 'buy American", we need to 'sell American' throughout the world. “This bipartisan legislation is critical to fair, effective and accountable trade agreements that helps America compete and win where everyone plays by the same rules.”
04.16.2015	Washington, DC: U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, who led the successful effort to restore the state and local sales tax deduction to the federal tax code in 2004, released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives today approved H.R. 622, The State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act which makes the tax deduction permanent: “This is about tax fairness, equal treatment and certainty for hardworking taxpayers in states without an income tax. It is time to make this temporary provision permanent so families can count on keeping more of their paycheck each year.” “Since the sales tax deduction was restored in 2004, Texas taxpayers have saved more than $10 billion. Not only does this buy a lot of school clothes, gas for your car and help with rising college costs, these dollars grow the local economy rather than Washington’s economy.” “This also removes any incentive for sales tax states to argue to add an income tax.”
04.16.2015	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted 240-179 to approve legislation by Republican Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas and Democrat Sanford Bishop of Georgia to permanently repeal the controversial federal estate tax, or Death Tax. The measure, H.R. 1105, which supporters say threatens America’s family-owned businesses, farmers and ranchers, now advances to the Senate. It is the first House vote to repeal the estate tax in ten years. “The Death Tax is an immoral tax and a calculated attack on the American Dream”, said Brady. “It hurts our economy, punishes success and prevents family-owned businesses and farms from being passed down to the next generation. Over time it will steal the nest egg of minority and women-owned businesses, the fastest growing group of new start-ups in America who are building wealth for the very first time.” According to Congress’ own Joint Economic Committee the Death Tax has pilfered more than $1.1 trillion in capital from the economy while motivating wealth holders to reduce savings and increase spending now, rather than pass it on to the next generation – thus increasing the consumption gap between the wealthy and poor in America. National Black Chamber of Congress CEO Harry Alford applauded the bipartisan effort to repeal the death tax which has “created an unfair situation for minority businesses that have begun to flourish over the last half-century.” Alford adds “We cannot stand by and watch as families who have built businesses from the ground up working side-by-side with their children are forced to sell out at fire-sale prices to afford this egregious tax. The passage in the House represents a permanent solution to unnecessary regulation.”
04.14.2015	Washington, DC: U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing House Ways & Means Committee, released the following statement ahead of April 15, the deadline for filing federal income taxes: “The U.S. tax code is too costly, complex and unfair – but mostly unfair. Especially to hardworking taxpayers, local businesses and America’s economy.” A national survey by Texas-based polling firm Baselice & Associates shows 80% of voters support Congress “acting now to fix the tax code by making it fairer, flatter and simpler’. Eighty six percent of Republicans support reform, followed by 79% of Democrats and 76% of independent voters. “Americans agree: We need a simpler, fairer tax code that’s built for growth and makes our economy healthier. It should close loopholes and limit deductions to lower tax rates for everybody. Small businesses shouldn’t pay higher tax rates than big businesses, and real reform should stop encouraging companies to shift jobs overseas.” “I believe a 21st century tax code shouldn’t raise taxes to bail out Washington’s spending problem. It should limit spending, rein in the IRS and strengthen America’s economy to begin paying down our national debt.” Background: Brady and his Republican colleagues on the Ways & Means Committee have worked the past three years to develop the first top-to-bottom tax reform proposal since 1986. The draft – a starting point for tax reform debate in America - was unveiled by former committee chairman Dave Camp in 2014. Current chairman Paul Ryan of Wisconsin is making tax reform his signature issue for the Ways & Means Committee.
04.14.2015	The targeted bills make the tax code fairer & protect family farms and ranches Washington, DC -- In response to White House veto threats issued today on two tax relief measures to be considered by the U.S. House this week (permanently extending the state and local sales tax deduction and repealing the federal estate, or Death Tax), the author of the bills U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement: “Why is the President turning his back on hardworking taxpayers? Middle class economics should be about helping families keep more of what they earn in sales tax states, and supporting family-owned farms and businesses – many of them being grown by women and minorities building wealth for the first time so their children and grandchildren have greater opportunities in this great land.”
04.14.2015	Washington, DC – The U.S. Senate returned this week from its Easter recess and promptly approved a measure by Texas Congressman Kevin Brady and others to permanently solve a decade-long problem with the way Medicare pays local doctors. The current flawed formula is becoming a crisis for seniors in America as fewer doctors can afford to treat the growing number of Medicare patients. Brady leads the Health panel for the House Ways & Means Committee, and helped develop the bi-partisan solution that gradually moves Medicare doctors from volume reimbursement to payment based on quality and value. The solution is endorsed by over 700 local, state and national physician groups. Says Brady, “This is all about making sure America’s seniors can see a doctor they know, and who knows them. For the 53 million Americans who depend upon Medicare, this is the first real step to saving Medicare for the long term, limiting fraud and abuse, and encouraging our local doctors to keep treating our seniors.” “As chairman of the Health subcommittee this has been a top priority for me. I’m proud the legislation has passed and is going to the President’s desk for his signature. While we disagree strongly on the merits of the Affordable Care Act, this is an example of Republicans and Democrats finding common ground on a major health care issue while maintaining their principles.”
04.01.2015	Conroe, Texas: Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement on the President’s decision to veto Congress’ approved resolution to prevent the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from implementing new union election rules that eliminate the 25-day waiting period. “President Obama continues to put big labor ahead of America’s workers and local businesses. Ambush elections trample the rights of hardworking Americans and unfairly tilt the field in unions’ favor. I will continue to vote against any White House decision that hampers job creation and economic growth.”
03.27.2015	Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX), released the following statement today regarding the Senate’s inaction on the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. “The Senate shouldn't have left town without acting. I embrace the assurances they'll act next month, but it's hard to find an adequate reason for leaving our local Medicare seniors and doctors in yet another lurch, or delaying the first real reforms to save Medicare for the long term.”
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.), member of the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, and Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas), member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, today held a bipartisan, bicameral press conference with Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-Ga.) calling on Congress to permanently repeal the death tax. Thune and Brady’s press conference highlighted yesterday’s passage in the House Ways and Means Committee of the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. In addition, it highlighted expected action in the Senate where Thune offered an amendment to repeal the death tax (S.A. #608) to the Senate’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget. Thune’s amendment is expected to receive a vote later today. Video of today’s press conference is available here and photos are available here. “Imposing a tax rate as high as 40 percent on savings is not just bad for the economy, it’s unfair to families that have saved and built job-creating small businesses in their local communities,” said Thune. “Currently more than 70 percent of family businesses do not survive to the second generation, and 90 percent of family businesses do not survive to the third generation. This legislation will finally give farmers, ranchers and family business owners the peace of mind of knowing that they no longer have to spend substantial sums on planning to minimize their death tax liability. I believe there is now a majority in both the House and the Senate who agree with us that the death tax punishes a lifetime of hard work and I hope to see movement in both chambers on this legislation this year.” “The Death Tax is still the number one reason family-owned farms and businesses in America aren’t passed down to the next generation,” said Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee and lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “It’s the wrong tax at the wrong time and hurts the wrong people. After a family loses a loved one, why should Uncle Sam swoop in and take much of the nest egg they spent a lifetime building? Especially when it forces the survivors to take out loans or sell their land or business just to try to keep some of what they worked so hard to earn. I have families in my district that have paid this tax multiple times on the same property. They deserve better.” The death tax would impose a tax rate as high as 40 percent on family businesses, farms, and ranches, hurting economic growth by discouraging savings and small business development. Many studies, including one from the Joint Economic Committee, indicate that ending the estate tax would actually increase overall federal tax revenue by encouraging more investment. And according to a study by former CBO Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin, repealing the death tax would create 1.5 million additional small business jobs and would shave almost a percentage point off the unemployment rate. The National Black Chamber of Commerce’s Harry Alford, the 60 Plus Association’s James Martin, Reliable Contracting’s Patricia Baldwin, and the South Dakota Cattleman’s Association’s Todd Wilkinson also participated in today’s press conference.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON — The House of Representatives today voted to permanently fix the broken Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula. The bipartisan plan fixes the long-standing problem of how doctors get paid for treating the 53 million Americans who depend on Medicare. “Congress has averted a continuation of a national health-care crisis,” said Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), who voted in favor of the legislation. “Doctors can now worry about patients instead of payments.” The vote produces a clean slate on which Congress can begin its efforts to institute much-needed Medicare reform to save the program. It creates a more patient-centered system that will provide significant savings over the long term and offers a good first step toward keeping the promises made to our seniors. In addition, the package combats waste, fraud, and abuse in our Medicare program with the inclusion of the Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act (PIMA)—all without increasing taxes. Brady added, “Fixing SGR has been a shared goal for many years, and today we have provided the Senate and White House with the best opportunity to write a new chapter in the history of the American health-care system which focuses on creating stability for those most in need.”
03.25.2015	Today the House Committee on Ways and Means voted to approve H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015, introduced by Representatives Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Sanford Bishop (D-GA). share: f t To view the video of Congressman Brady’s full statement before the House Ways and Means Committee, click here. Today the House Committee on Ways and Means voted to approve H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015, introduced by Representatives Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Sanford Bishop (D-GA). Supporters say the tax hurts America’s farmers, ranchers and small businesses while robbing the economy of $1.1 trillion in capital and generating barely enough revenue to cover one day of Washington spending. Congressman Brady stated before the Committee, “The Death Tax is the wrong tax at the wrong time and hurts the wrong people. It’s the number one reason why family-owned businesses aren’t passed down to the next generation. It is Washington’s most immoral and calculated attack on the American Dream.” Congress’ own Joint Economic Committee reported that the Death Tax motivates wealth holders to reduce savings and increase spending now, rather than pass it on to the next generation, increasing the consumption gap between the wealthy and poor in America. The Death Tax also unfairly targets women and minority-owned small businesses in America who are building wealth often for the first time. Robert Johnson, founder of BET, recently wrote to the Committee, the Death Tax “continues to pose a serious threat to the likelihood that present-day African American-owned businesses can be preserved as part of a family's long-term legacy.” A study by Boston College professors estimates the Death Tax could rob African-American households of up to a quarter-trillion dollars of wealth over the first half of this century. Brady added, “We need American entrepreneurs and family businesses to close that serious jobs gap. But as our committee witnesses made clear, instead of hiring more workers and investing in their business the Death Tax diverts their precious dollars and time to estate planning – millions of dollars and hours. Imagine if all of that could have been invested in new jobs and business opportunities? “ To read Congressman Brady’s full statement before the House Ways and Means Committee click here.
03.25.2015	“Washington, like you and I, must live within its means and this budget confronts those problems head on,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “We have presented the Senate with the cure for the Washington’s spending problem and hope they pass our message to the White House.” share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives approved its FY 2016 budget that tackles the nation’s deficit and spending problems while providing essential funds to America’s military and homeland security forces. “Washington, like you and I, must live within its means and this budget confronts those problems head on,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “We have presented the Senate with the cure for the Washington’s spending problem and hope they pass our message to the White House.” While President Obama’s recent budget proposal never balanced and costs taxpayers an additional $2 trillion, the House budget balances in less than ten years without raising taxes and cuts wasteful spending by $5.5 trillion. The Republican Study Committee proposal addressed the same issues and balanced the budget within six years and reduces spending by $7.1 trillion. The House budget presents a fairer, simpler tax code which promotes job creation, fully repeals Obamacare and gives states more power to design Medicaid to meet the health care needs of the poor. This creates a future option for Medicare to help save that program for the long term. Brady also applauded the budget’s boost in defense spending which provides greater support than the President’s recommendations while simultaneously addressing the current spending caps and the threat of sequester. He added, “As new threats continue to emerge here and abroad we must make sure that our military forces and intelligence agencies are properly supplied and funded. We must also appropriately care for those who have served our nation, now and in the comings years, as we move toward an efficient, accountable federal government.” ### Congressman Brady led the Joint Economic Committee Floor Debate on the Budget today. You can watch it by clicking here.
03.20.2015	Committee on Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), introduced H.R. 1479, the Repeal of the Obamacare Bay State Boondoggle Act. share: f t Washington, DC – Committee on Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), introduced H.R. 1479, the Repeal of the Obamacare Bay State Boondoggle Act. The legislation repeals the "Bay State Boondoggle," a sweetheart deal included in ObamaCare that is taking hundreds of millions of dollars each year from hospitals around the country and giving it to hospitals in Massachusetts (MA). Chairman Brady stated: “Former Speaker Nancy Pelosi told Americans that, ‘we have to pass the bill to find out what’s in it.’ What we saw were a number of backroom deals that did nothing to decrease the cost of health care. It’s time to repeal Obamacare’s backroom deals. Because of the controversial 'Bay State Boondoggle,' hospitals in nearly every state, many in underserved areas, have missed out on much needed funding, and unless Congress acts these hospitals will continue to struggle to care for those in need. It is my hope that Congress will act soon to repeal this misguided policy. It’s time to stop rewarding one state at the expense of all the others.” Background: The Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services (CMS) is required to adjust Medicare hospital wage reimbursements to reflect the geographic area where services are delivered. This allows for recognition that the average hourly wage for an emergency triage nurse is higher in urban areas than it is in rural areas. The Medicare wage hospital wage index also includes “floors” to ensure that the wage index for rural hospitals is not higher than urban hospitals. Prior to ObamaCare, CMS was implementing a change that would tie application of all hospital wage index floors to a state budget neutrality calculation -- meaning a change to the wage index rural floor in a state would reallocate money only within that state. ObamaCare changed this state budget neutrality to a national budget neutrality. Soon after ObamaCare was signed into law, a 15-bed hospital in MA was purchased by a large MA health system and was re-designated from a critical access hospital (the wage index does not apply to critical access hospitals) to an acute care hospital (wage index does apply). This 15-bed acute hospital set a new rural floor for the state of MA. Prior to ObamaCare this change would have triggered a reallocation of funds only within MA. But, because of ObamaCare’s change to national budget neutrality for the rural floor, hospitals in 40 other states ended up paying for the MA change. The Repeal the Bay State Boondoggle Act repeals the ObamaCare earmark and would convert any changes to Medicare hospital wage index floors back to a state-specific budget neutrality calculation. Overall, the legislation has no budgetary impact.
03.19.2015	Today, Chairman Kevin Brady of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health and Chairman Joe Pitts of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health sent a letter to the Obama Administration voicing concerns with proposed changes to the popular Medicare Advantage (MA) program that could result in reduced benefits and higher costs for millions of seniors across the country. share: f t Today, Chairman Kevin Brady of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health and Chairman Joe Pitts of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health sent a letter to the Obama Administration voicing concerns with proposed changes to the popular Medicare Advantage (MA) program that could result in reduced benefits and higher costs for millions of seniors across the country. “The President’s health care law slashed Medicare Advantage funding by billions of dollars. Now more than ever this White House must work with Congress to strengthen and preserve this program and protect it for the millions of seniors that rely on this program for their health insurance. I, along with my colleagues, urge this Administration to reverse its course on their proposed changes that could jeopardize seniors access to the plans and doctors that they have come to know and trust.” The letter goes on to state: “The cumulative effects of the administration’s policies relating to the MA program have resulted in a roughly 10 percent cut to the program over the past several years. A recent report from Oliver Wyman suggests that the cuts and policies from the Call Letters between 2014 and 2015 cost beneficiaries, on average, an additional $60 to $140 per month. Additionally, according to CMS data, beneficiaries had their choices of MA plans reduced during this period.” ### Click here to read the letter. Click here for the House Ways & Means News Release on the letter.
03.18.2015	The Death Tax is an immoral tax. It is an attack on the American dream. share: f t To view the full testimony please click here. The Death Tax is an immoral tax that attacks the American dream while disproportionately affecting small businesses and start-ups. The Death Tax will cost African-American households between $192 and $257 billion between 2001 and 2055 Thank you, Chairman Reichert, for permitting me to participate in today’s hearing. Thank you to the witnesses for sharing your stories with us today, especially my fellow Texan Bobby McKnight. As you may know, I have been fighting to permanently repeal the death tax since my constituents first sent me to Washington in 1996. And I would like to make a very important point this morning. This tax is not about reducing income inequality. Because it’s not the super-rich that pay this tax. No, it’s the small business owner—the farmer, rancher, or courageous entrepreneur—whose assets are tied up in buildings, machines, and property that pays the estate tax. It’s his or her spouse and children that have to sell that business he built to pay Uncle Sam. One Texas rancher I’ve known for a long time has paid the death tax three times. Her grandfather started their Texas cattle ranch in 1917—just one year after the death tax was put in place. In 2011, her husband passed away suddenly in a tractor accident. The price of hay was outrageous because of the drought and diesel was up at $4 a gallon. She had no idea how she was going to continue the ranch. Then the IRS swooped in and forced her to sell huge chunks of cattle stock to pay the death tax. All while she and her children were grieving their husband and father. Tell that family they’re exactly like Paris Hilton, tell that family. A former staffer of mine returned to her family ranch in Texas in 2010 after her aunt passed to help settle her estate. This was a ranch that her great great grandfather had settled in the 1800s. She and her brother were able to keep that ranch in their family for the 5th generation, but at a huge cost. Thanks to the death tax, they had to sell 2/3 of the ranch’s 15,000 acres to do so. So tell this young woman she’s exactly like the Robber Barons of Teddy Roosevelt’s era. The Death Tax is an immoral tax. It is an attack on the American dream. It disproportionately affects small businesses and start-ups. The tax burden on these business owners is already too high during their lifetime—most pay a marginal tax rate over 50%. And then when they die, the federal government swoops into the funeral home and takes another 40% of those assets—what they spent their entire life building—from their grieving families. What is worse—if you can imagine it—is that this tax is especially destructive to minority-owned small businesses. They’re the fastest growing sector of our economy to date. Harry Alford, President and CEO of the National Black Chamber of Commerce, goes as far as calling this tax a Black Tax because of its destructive effect on black-owned small businesses. A study by two Boston College professors several years ago estimated that between 2001 and 2055, the first half of this century, the death tax will wipe out between 11 percent and 15 percent of all African-American wealth. This one tax alone, the BC experts said, would cost African-American households between $192 billion and $257 billion. Imagine what that money could do if it was invested in education, businesses, and jobs. As members of Congress, we are tasked with making our great country better, with ensuring that we leave our children a better nation than the one we received. The death tax betrays that oath. I urge my colleagues to work with me in eradicating this immoral tax once and for all.
03.18.2015	“I welcome the change in language in today’s statement suggesting that the Fed may begin normalizing monetary policy later this year. Monetary policy has long since accomplished all that it can to boost growth. Further delay in normalizing monetary policy risks future price inflation, unsustainable asset price bubbles, and the inevitable recession that would follow,” Brady said. share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement upon today’s Statement from the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), which indicates the FOMC is moving closer to normalizing monetary policy. “I welcome the change in language in today’s statement suggesting that the Fed may begin normalizing monetary policy later this year. Monetary policy has long since accomplished all that it can to boost growth. Further delay in normalizing monetary policy risks future price inflation, unsustainable asset price bubbles, and the inevitable recession that would follow,” Brady said. “To create a healthier economy, America needs a Growth Agenda. The Fed can help by maintaining a sound dollar, but Congress, not the Fed, must fix the broken tax code, right-size the federal government, ensure more balanced regulation, and approve effective, enforceable and fair trade agreements,” Brady concluded.
03.18.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1029, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015 and H.R. 1030, Secret Science Reform Act of 2015 which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a 236-161 and 241-175 vote: “The EPA has a frightening amount of power over the lives of families and businesses, and has kept its practices secret from the American people for too long. Is it too much to insist that when this agency mandates regulations that can harm jobs and the economy, that these be based on open and verifiable data? I support sound standards for clean air and water, but I want them based on sound science, not politics or the secret work of special interests. Sunshine is the best disinfectant for a muddy government.”
03.17.2015	“Washington must live within its means,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “This budget is about a cure for Washington’s spending problem, not simply treating the symptoms.” share: f t Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives today outlined a balanced budget that takes on Washington’s annual deficits while strengthening America’s military and homeland security forces. “Washington must live within its means,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “This budget is about a cure for Washington’s spending problem, not simply treating the symptoms.” In contrast to President Obama’s recent budget proposal which never balances and raises taxes by over $2 trillion, the House GOP budget balances in less than ten years without raising taxes and cuts wasteful spending by $5.5 trillion. The budget also fully repeals the controversial Affordable Care Act, gives states more power to design Medicaid to meet the health care needs of the poor, and creates a future option for Medicare to help save that program for the long term. Brady continues to push for stronger defense, intelligence and border security funding. “In an increasingly dangerous world, we can’t allow our military to be hollowed out or our veterans to be left behind. I recognize this budget is only the first step in a long road to an efficient, accountable federal government, but it’s critical both the House and Senate agree on a budget.”
03.10.2015	“I, and hundreds of my Capitol Hill colleagues, stood up against this assault on the Second Amendment” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas in defending the ammunition traditionally used by hunters and sportsmen. share: f t Today, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (BATFE) announced the agency will not proceed with a proposed rule to ban a popular form of rifle ammunition. “I, and hundreds of my Capitol Hill colleagues, stood up against this assault on the Second Amendment,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas in defending the ammunition traditionally used by hunters and sportsmen. “The ATF listened to us and the 80,000 Americans who took the time to comment on this wrongheaded proposal that revealed just how far this White House was willing to go to attack our constitutional rights. This was way out of step with reality and I’m glad it’s over.”
03.06.2015	“Monthly job gains in the 250,000 to 300,000 range, while welcome, simply won't close the serious jobs gap America's unemployed are facing. We will need to generate 403,000 a month if we hope to close the 5.5 million private-sector jobs gap of the disappointing Obama recovery by the end of 2016," share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement upon today’s release of Employment Situation Report for February 2015 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which reported an increase of 295,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (288,000 private payroll jobs) and decline in the unemployment rate to 5.5 percent. “Monthly job gains in the 250,000 to 300,000 range, while welcome, simply won't close the serious jobs gap America's unemployed are facing. We will need to generate 403,000 a month if we hope to close the 5.5 million private-sector jobs gap of the disappointing Obama recovery by the end of 2016," said Brady. "To create a healthier economy, we need a growth agenda that focuses on fixing the broken tax code, right-sizing government, restoring balanced regulation, a sound dollar and enacting effective, enforceable and fair trade agreements." Labor Force Participation Rate. The labor force participation rate ticked down to 62.8 percent, but remains near 30-year lows and is well below its December 2007 level of 66.0 percent. Employment-to-Population Ratio. February’s employment-to-population ratio of 59.3 percent remains lower than employment-to-population ratio of 59.4 percent in June 2009 when the recession ended and is significantly lower than the rate of 62.7 percent in December 2007 when the recession began. At This Pace. Private-sector job gains have averaged 285,000 over the past six months. At that pace the private-sector jobs gap would be reduced by 53 percent (2,927,000) to under three million (2,603,000) by the end of 2016. Closing the Gap. Eliminating the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap compared with the average of post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016 would require the addition of 403,000 private-sector jobs in each of the next 22 months.
03.03.2015	U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), who are leading the charge to repeal the controversial federal estate tax, this week introduced the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. share: f t U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Sanford Bishop (D-Georgia), who are leading the charge to repeal the controversial federal estate tax, this week introduced the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015. “The Death Tax is still the number one reason family-owned farms and businesses in America aren’t passed down to the next generation,” said Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee. “It’s the wrong tax at the wrong time and hurts the wrong people. After a family loses a loved one, why should Uncle Sam swoop in and take much of the nest egg they spent a lifetime building? Especially when it forces the survivors to sell their land or business just to try to keep what they worked so hard to earn.” Bishop points out the fastest growing sector of the American economy are women and minority owned small businesses building wealth for the first time. “I have heard from farmers, funeral home owners, newspaper publishers, radio station owners, and garment manufacturers about the need for estate tax relief. I believe that the estate tax is politically misguided, morally unjustified and downright un-American,” said Bishop. “It undermines the life work and the life savings of farmers and small- and medium-sized businesses in Georgia and across the nation.” A study by the Joint Economic Committee reports the onerous estate tax hurts economic growth by discouraging savings and small business growth. Many studies have indicated that ending the estate tax would actually increase overall federal tax revenue by encouraging more investment. “Taking out loans for Uncle Sam while trying to keep a family farm or ranch afloat is wrong,” added Brady. “I have families in my district that have paid this tax multiple times on the same property. They deserve better.”
03.03.2015	"'We must all stand together to stop Iran’s march of conquest, subjugation, and terror' -- that's what the Israeli Prime Minister told Congress and the American People today. It was exactly what we needed to hear," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas. share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady Reacts to Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu's Speech to the U.S. Congress Washington, DC -- "Even if Israel has to stand alone- Israel will stand!!" Powerful words today from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the U.S. House Chamber. "'We must all stand together to stop Iran’s march of conquest, subjugation, and terror' -- that's what the Israeli Prime Minister told Congress and the American People today. It was exactly what we needed to hear," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas. "Iran does not have America's best interests at heart and I, for one, will not accept any deal that could lead to a 'potential nuclear nightmare' for America or Israel." "Americans needed to hear what Israel is facing and how Iran is not cooperating with United Nations inspectors," added Brady. "I do not expect Israel to be 'passive' when threatened and I do expect America to stand by our ally, Israel."
03.03.2015	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas voted “no”. “I intend to keep fighting for the principles in the House bill that stopped the President’s unconstitutional executive amnesty cold while fully funding the Department of Homeland Security." share: f t By a vote of 257-167, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill today to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of September. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas voted “no”. “I intend to keep fighting for the principles in the House bill that stopped the President’s unconstitutional executive amnesty cold while fully funding the Department of Homeland Security. The question of funding border and homeland security was never in doubt, especially given the real threat of ISIS, the drug cartels and our dangerous borders. “I am deeply disappointed the Senate repeatedly failed to pass the common-sense House measure that helped restore the Constitutional checks and balances that have served America so well for over 200 years.”
02.27.2015	I believe in the House bill that fully funds Homeland Security and stops President Obama’s amnesty cold. I want to keep fighting because this is bigger than immigration, it’s about restoring the checks and balances of the Constitution. share: f t Texas Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after both chambers of the U.S. Congress passed a one week extension of Homeland Security funding. “Why give up now? Senate Republicans are quitting too soon. I believe in the House bill that fully funds Homeland Security and stops President Obama’s amnesty cold. I want to keep fighting because this is bigger than immigration, it’s about restoring the checks and balances of the Constitution."
02.26.2015	Today, the House Committee on Ways & Means passed several important bills to protect and strengthen Medicare, including Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Jim McDermott’s (D-WA) Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act (PIMA) of 2015 (H.R. 1021). share: f t Watch the video from the hearing by clicking here. Today, the House Committee on Ways & Means passed several important bills to protect and strengthen Medicare, including Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Jim McDermott’s (D-WA) Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act (PIMA) of 2015 (H.R. 1021). The bill reduces Medicare fraud, waste, and abuse by making a number of common sense reforms such as removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards, better educating both Medicare providers and contractors, and eliminating unnecessary paperwork for employers. “Too many seniors are either personally harmed by identity theft or negatively affected by rising health care costs due to correctable issues,” Chairman Brady said. “That’s why we brought together in one bill a number of good ideas previously introduced by members of our Committee – such as removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards as fellow Texan Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson has championed.” “We applaud Mr. Brady’s efforts in PIMA to ensure seniors are protected from fraud,” added James L. Martin, Chairman of the 60 Plus Association. “By making commonsense changes, like removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards, the government can protect seniors from identity theft and preserve Medicare dollars from being stolen by fraudsters.” PIMA also increases outreach and education for Medicare providers, expands medical documentation responsibilities to physicians’ assistants and nurse practitioners, provides the option for electronic Medicare bill summaries, allowing for the elimination of wasteful restrictions, requiring surety bonds for home health agencies who participate in Medicare and repealing a provision requiring unnecessary paperwork burdening certain employers. “PIMA gives the Medicare program the tools to fight the $60 billion in fraud and abuse a year which is driving up costs for seniors and taxpayers. We urge the House and Senate to act quickly on this important legislation,” said National Coalition on Health Care (NCHC) President and CEO John Rother. The Committee also passed bills requiring Medicare to use binding competitive bidding and licensure in the purchase of durable medical equipment, and requiring hospitals to provide notification to patients of their observation or inpatient status. Finally, the Committee passed the Electronic Health Fairness Act of 2015. “The physician partners at the Memorial Hermann Surgery Center Woodlands Parkway applaud committee passage of HR 887, The Electronic Fairness Act of 2015 which will exempt the patient encounters that take place in our ambulatory surgery centers (ASC) and will not be counted toward meaningful use requirements for our physician partners,” added Susan Olis, Administrator, Memorial Hermann Surgery Center Woodlands Parkway. “Until there are requirements that ASCs use Electronic Health Records (EHR) and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) develops a certification program specifically for the ambulatory surgery setting, we share the belief these members of Congress have: the physician should not be penalized.”
02.24.2015	Today, Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) introduced the Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act (PIMA) of 2015. The bill would prevent fraud in Medicare by making a number of commonsense reforms such as removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards and eliminating unnecessary paperwork for employers. share: f t Today, Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Ranking Member Jim McDermott (D-WA) introduced the Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act (PIMA) of 2015. The bill would prevent fraud in Medicare by making a number of commonsense reforms such as removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards and eliminating unnecessary paperwork for employers. PIMA incorporates a number of ideas from legislation previously introduced by committee members from both parties. In introducing the legislation, Chairman Brady said: "We have all heard stories and read the news regarding fraud, waste, and abuse in the Medicare program. Seniors are either personally harmed or negatively affected by the rising costs in health care due to these all-too-common activities. I am pleased to re-introduce the Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act, a bipartisan piece of legislation that will reduce fraud, waste, and abuse within Medicare. By increasing education, transparency, and communication between Medicare's payers and the providers that treat our seniors, in addition to commonsense proposals such as removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards, the members of this subcommittee are tackling these issues head on. Our seniors deserve better, and I am proud to re-introduce this bill with my friend and colleague on the Ways and Means Committee, Dr. McDermott." In introducing the legislation, Ranking Member McDermott said: "I thank Chairman Brady for working collaboratively on the Protecting the Integrity of Medicare Act. This bill combines a number of bipartisan proposals that make positive changes to our program integrity laws. Moving forward, the American people deserve additional reforms that modernize outdated laws and advance the ball further in the fight against wrongdoers who engage in fraud, waste, and abuse. I intend to continue working with my colleagues in the Congress to improve and strengthen the integrity of our federal health programs." PIMA would take a number of steps to protect seniors and the Medicare program: • Remove Social Security numbers from Medicare beneficiary cards. This provision is based on legislation introduced by Rep. Sam Johnson and Rep. Lloyd Doggett in each of the last three Congresses. (H.R. 380) • Increase outreach and education for providers by Medicare contractors and other program integrity efforts in the PRIME Act, legislation sponsored by Rep. Peter Roskam and Rep. Earl Blumenauer. (H.R. 818) • Expand who can document the face-to-face encounter required for Medicare durable medical equipment prescriptions to include nurse practitioners and physician assistants, as allowed by state law. This provision is based on legislation introduced previously by Rep. Jim McDermott. • Provide existing beneficiaries the option to receive a Medicare summary notice (MSN) electronically beginning in 2015 and Medicare Administrative Contractor efficiency measures in accordance with a bill introduced by Rep. Jim Renacci and by Rep. Bill Pascrell. (H.R. 289) • Require that the HHS Secretary issue guidance on the application of the “Common Rule,” which provides protection for individuals involved in research by incorporating legislation introduced by Rep. Bill Pascrell and Rep. Charles Boustany. (H.R. 965) • Require the HHS Secretary to issue a report describing how a permanent physician-hospital gainsharing program can best be established based on policy advocated by Rep. Charles Boustany. • Require changes to gainsharing restrictions to apply only to medically necessary services, allowing for the elimination of wasteful activity as previously introduced by Rep. Jim McDermott. • Instruct the HHS Secretary to require each home health agency to obtain a surety bond in the amount of no less than $50,000 as a condition of participation in the Medicare program based on a bill previously introduced by Rep. Jim McDermott. • Repeal a duplicative provision in statute causing unnecessary paperwork and burdens on employers based on a bill introduced by Rep. John Lewis and Rep. Dave Reichert. (H.R. 943) A section-by-section of the bill can be viewed here.
02.24.2015	“This veto has shown that this White House continues to put their liberal special interests over hardworking American families who want jobs and energy security. The American people spoke out in favor of this project in poll after poll and I will keep fighting to see it become a reality.” share: f t Texas Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement following President Obama’s veto of the bipartisan Keystone XL Pipeline bill: "This veto has shown that this White House continues to put their liberal special interests over hardworking American families who want jobs and energy security. The American people spoke out in favor of this project in poll after poll and I will keep fighting to see it become a reality.”
02.19.2015	“The economy is improving, Mr. President, but don't celebrate yet. This recovery is still missing 5.5 million private-sector jobs," says House economic leader. share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement upon today’s release of the Economic Report of the President for 2015. “The economy is improving, Mr. President, but don't celebrate yet. This recovery is still missing 5.5 million private-sector jobs and has left an economic hole the size of Australia. We must change course if we hope to get college graduates to work and start growing the paychecks of middle class families," Brady said. Brady pointed out that the Obama recovery still lags behind the average of other economic recoveries during the past half-century. Even if recent improved higher growth rates were sustained, a large “Growth Gap” would remain by the time President Obama leaves office in January 2017. For example: · In the fourth quarter of 2014, the annual rate of real GDP growth was 2.6%. However, if the U.S. economy were to grow at this rate for next eight quarters, the Growth Gap in terms of real GDP would actually expand from $1.5 trillion to $1.6 trillion. · Over the last six months, private employers added an average of 277,000 payroll jobs per month. If this rate of private-sector job creation were sustained in each of next 23 months, the Growth Gap in terms private-sector payroll jobs would still be 2.5 million. · To actually close the Growth Gap by January 2017, real GDP would have to grow at an annual rate of 7.4% during the next eight quarters, and private employers would have to add 397,000 payroll jobs would have to add in each of the next 23 months. “I will read the Economic Report of the President today with one question in mind: What policy changes would President Obama be willing to make to accelerate economic growth sufficiently to close this Growth Gap.” Brady said. ***
02.17.2015	"I stand with the more than half of the states, including Texas, that no law exists to give President Obama power to stop millions of deportations. This is a clear issue of the President seeking to go around Constitutional checks and balances. The judge got this exactly right." share: f t Conroe -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after a Texas federal judge put the brakes on President Obama's latest executive overreach on immigration. "I stand with the more than half of the states, including Texas, that no law exists to give President Obama power to stop millions of deportations. This is a clear issue of the President seeking to go around Constitutional checks and balances. The judge got this exactly right."
02.12.2015	​Watch video by clicking here. U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and John Larson (D-Connecticut), both senior members of the House Ways & Means Committee, joined forces today to boost American innovation. The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015, which permanently simplifies and strengthens the now-temporary U.S. Research and Development Tax Credit, passed the House Ways & Means Committee by a vote of 23 - 12. “America is falling behind our global competitors. Unless the U.S. remains the world’s leading innovator, our economy will suffer and middle class families will lose jobs to foreign countries,” said Brady. “Making permanent the tax incentive for companies to invest in research and development here in the United States will ensure life-saving technologies, state-of-the art computer systems and breakthrough manufacturing products.” - In recent years, the U.S. has dropped to 27th on the list of the 42 countries that offer R&D incentives. - America’s share of global research and development has dropped from 39% before the turn of this new century to 31% last year. - China’s R&D spending has increased fourfold and is poised to surpass that of the US by 2022. “Permanency provides certainty to U.S. innovators, makes federal budget score keeping more honest, and removes the asterisk from this temporary provision so that pro-growth tax reform can advance,” added Brady.
02.12.2015	A bi-partisan measure that makes the sales tax deduction in the federal tax code permanent was successfully passed out of the U.S. House Ways & Means Committee today. The measure led by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee who helped restore the deduction in 2004 “is about tax fairness for families in states that don’t impose a state income tax.” share: f t Watch the video by clicking here. Washington, DC -- A bi-partisan measure that makes the sales tax deduction in the federal tax code permanent was successfully passed out of the U.S. House Ways & Means Committee today. The measure led by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee who helped restore the deduction in 2004 “is about tax fairness for families in states that don’t impose a state income tax.” “Taxpayers in income-tax states have a permanent deduction for their state and local taxes, so it is a matter of fairness that residents of sales tax states can count on their deduction as well,” added Brady after the bill passed out of committee today by a 22 to 14 vote. Under current law American families can choose to deduct either their income or state taxes, whichever is larger. “This tax provision helps hard-working taxpayers keep a little more of what they earn, which is even more important to families given their stagnant paychecks over the past years,” added Brady. “More than 10 million American taxpayers depend upon this common-sense deduction, and the dollars that stay in the local community helps grow their economy rather than Washington’s economy.” “Permanency provides certainty to American families, makes federal budget score keeping more honest, and removes the asterisk from this temporary provision so that pro-growth tax reform can advance.” TEXAS IMPACT “It’s certainly important to our state,” says Brady. “Since it’s been restored Texas taxpayers have saved more than $10 billion – which buys a lot of school clothes, gas for your car and helps with rising college costs. These dollars help grow the local economy rather than Washington’s economy.” Proponents say that since 2004 the sales tax deduction has leveled the playing field for millions of Americans who previously paid more in federal income taxes because their state chose to use sales taxes as their preferred tax structure.
02.06.2015	Even with recent strength, the private-sector jobs gap still stands at 5,493,000. Eliminating that gap would provide a job to every unemployed person in 45 states,” said Brady. share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, made the following statement following today’s release of the Employment Situation Report for January 2015, in which the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated that the U.S. economy added 257,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (267,000 in the private sector) and that the unemployment rate increased to 5.7%. “Today’s jobs report is more encouraging than many of the weak reports because we are starting to see glimmers of discouraged workers venturing back into the workforce We need to build on this recent momentum and continue closing the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap when compared to average recoveries. Even with recent strength, the private-sector jobs gap still stands at 5,493,000. Eliminating that gap would provide a job to every unemployed person in 45 states,” said Brady. · Labor Force Participation Rate. The labor force participation rate rose to 62.9%, but remains near 30-year lows and is well below its December 2007 level of 66.0%. · Employment-to-Population Ratio. January’s employment-to-population ratio of 59.3% remains lower than employment-to-population ratio of 59.4% in June 2009 when the recession ended and is significantly lower than the rate of 62.7% in December 2007 when the recession began. · At This Pace. Private-sector job gains have averaged 277,000 over the past six months. At that pace the private-sector jobs gap would be reduced by 46% (2,504,000) to under three million (2,989,000) by the end of 2016. Closing the Gap. In order to eliminate the Obama recovery’s private-sector jobs gap compared with the average of post-1960 recoveries by the end of 2016 would require the addition of 397,000 jobs in each of the next 23 months.
02.05.2015	“Those who teach our children and protect and serve us everyday deserve equal treatment when they retire. Social Security benefits should be based on your real-life contributions, not some arbitrary formula." share: f t A bipartisan bill has been filed in the U.S. House of Representatives to treat teachers, firefighters and police officers who paid into Social Security the same as other American workers. U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Richard Neal (D-Massachusetts), senior members of the House Ways & Means Committee, are leading the effort to alter the controversial Social Security provision known as the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP). "Our bill strengthens the solvency of Social Security while guaranteeing our public servants receive the full benefits they earned when paying into the program,” said Brady. “Those who teach our children and protect and serve us everyday deserve equal treatment when they retire. Social Security benefits should be based on your real-life contributions, not some arbitrary formula." “If Americans are going to enjoy their golden years financially secure and comfortable, they must have a sound retirement plan. That is why I have been a strong supporter of the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act. Our dedicated public employees have paid into Social Security and they are entitled to their full benefits, just like any other worker. I am happy to join with my colleague Congressman Kevin Brady in a bipartisan effort to provide fair and just treatment for our retired public employees,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Brady and Neal introduced H.R. 711, the Equal Treatment for Public Servants Act. It repeals the 1980’s era WEP which impacts 1.3 million public servants who earn a pension at work as well as in Social Security. The WEP can dock monthly Social Security benefits as much as $413 a month. Instead, H.R. 711 bases Social Security on real life earnings and work history.
01.30.2015	“At this anemic pace, the ‘Growth Gap’ between this recovery and the average of past recoveries since 1960 will actually expand to $1.6 trillion (2009$) when President Obama leaves the White House.” share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, made the following statement following the release of the first estimate by Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) that real GDP grew at annual rate of 2.6% in fourth quarter of 2014. “Last year, the U.S. economy grew by 2.4%--that’s in line with the average growth rate of 2.3% during the 22 quarters of this recovery,” Brady observed. “At this anemic pace, the ‘Growth Gap’ between this recovery and the average of past recoveries since 1960 will actually expand to $1.6 trillion (2009$) when President Obama leaves the White House.” “That’s not good enough for hardworking families on Main Street. Congressional Republicans will pass pro-growth legislation to kick start private-sector job creation into high gear. Instead of issuing veto threats, President Obama should sign these pro-growth bills, beginning with the Keystone-XL pipeline,” Brady concluded.
01.30.2015	“This is about tax fairness for families in states that don’t impose a state income tax,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee who helped restore the deduction in 2004. “If taxpayers in income-tax states can deduct their state and local taxes, so should residents of sales tax states.” share: f t A bi-partisan measure to make permanent the sales tax deduction in the federal tax code was introduced today by U.S. representatives from Texas, Washington and Tennessee. The deduction expired at the end of 2014, which if Congress does not extend would increase federal taxes next year on residents in Alaska, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming. “This is about tax fairness for families in states that don’t impose a state income tax,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee who helped restore the deduction in 2004. “If taxpayers in income-tax states can deduct their state and local taxes, so should residents of sales tax states.” Brady noted that under current law American families can choose to deduct either their income or state taxes, whichever is larger. Texas taxpayers have saved more than $10 billion since the deduction was restored. “This is a question of equality,” Rep. McDermott (D –WA-7) said. “Washington State residents should not be disadvantaged compared to residents of other states. Washington State residents who claim the state and local sales tax deduction currently save more than $2,000 annually. It is crucial that we make this tax provision permanent. That’s what hardworking families in Washington State, in communities from coast to coast, deserve.” “Hardworking Tennesseans pay their share of taxes just like citizens of every other state. They should not be punished because they pay state and local sales taxes rather than an income tax," added U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-Tennessee). "This legislation will make our tax code more fair for everyone living in the United States. I look forward to working with Reps. Brady and McDermott in this bipartisan effort to make permanent the sales tax deduction that is so vital to thousands of small businesses in Tennessee.” Proponents say that since 2004 the sales tax deduction has leveled the playing field for millions of Americans who previously paid more in federal income taxes because their state chose to use sales taxes as their preferred tax structure.
01.28.2015	The benefits from Fed’s monetary stimulus have clearly run their course while the risks going forward mount. So today’s FOMC decision to maintain its current policy of monetary ease is disappointing. share: f t Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, made the following statement following the release of the FOMC Statement, which declared “Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy,” at 2:00 p.m. EST today: “The benefits from Fed’s monetary stimulus have clearly run their course while the risks going forward mount. So today’s FOMC decision to maintain its current policy of monetary ease is disappointing,” Brady said. “I’m hopeful that economic weakness abroad doesn’t deter the FOMC from beginning to responsibly normalize monetary policy in the U.S. this year. Further delay poses long-term risks to our economy beyond inflation, including punishing savers and seniors, encouraging risky investments, and repeating the monetary policy mistakes that contributed to the ‘Great Recession’,” Brady concluded.
01.22.2015	On the anniversary of the controversial 1973 Supreme Court case legalizing abortion in America, the U.S. House of Representatives acted to ensure tax dollars are not used to end a baby’s life by passing the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act. share: f t On the anniversary of the controversial 1973 Supreme Court case legalizing abortion in America, the U.S. House of Representatives acted to ensure tax dollars are not used to end a baby’s life by passing the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act. “The majority of Americans, whatever their belief on abortion, agree that their tax dollars should not be used to pay for abortions,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady citing a Marist Poll released yesterday which also found that the vast majority of Americans don’t support unlimited abortion on demand, including almost 7 in 10 who identified as “pro-choice.” “I’m strongly pro-life and grateful my wife and I have a wonderful family because two women in two different, difficult circumstances chose life,” added Brady. “I’m also grateful to the hundreds of thousands of Americans marching peacefully in Washington to remember the tens of millions of American lives lost to abortion.”
01.20.2015	“I predict the President’s stale, outdated demands for higher taxes won’t create a single new job, grow the paycheck of even one middle class family or help one more college graduate start their career. We need to focus on growing our local economy, not Washington’s." share: f t U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, made the following statement on President Obama’s 2015 State of the Union speech today: “I predict the President’s stale, outdated demands for higher taxes won’t create a single new job, grow the paycheck of even one middle class family or help one more college graduate start their career. We need to focus on growing our local economy, not Washington’s. “I have a different vision for the next two years. I’m convinced that if the President, for once, will work with Republicans in Congress we can get things done, including fixing the broken tax code, opening up more of the world’s customers for American products including energy and loosening the constraints of red tape so local businesses can begin hiring again.” Brady notes that even with the improving economy, the Obama recovery is still short 5.8 million private sector jobs at this point in an average recovery, with a American family of four missing $1,069 monthly due to stagnant paychecks.
01.14.2015	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a Department of Homeland Security bill that funds border security at its highest level in history and stops President Obama’s controversial executive order expanding amnesty share: f t Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a Department of Homeland Security bill that funds border security at its highest level in history and stops President Obama’s controversial executive order expanding amnesty to up to 5 million people living in the U.S. illegally. As promised, the House quickly followed up on last year’s two House-passed challenges to the President’s immigration orders. The new House measure prevents any funding for executive amnesty, blocks the so called “Morton Memos” the White House had used to justify the unconstitutional orders, freezes the President’s controversial DACA program and bars illegal immigrants from receiving any federal benefits. The bill also emphasizes more timely action for immigrants who are trying to obtain legal visas and citizenship by coming through the front door of legal immigration. “This is more than simply about immigration, it’s about restoring important checks and balances in our Constitution which Americans of all political persuasion have an important stake in for the future,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a longtime opponent of illegal immigration. “Today my colleagues and I stood up for the Constitution and our constituents who sent us here to defend it. If the President wants to fix this broken immigration system the right way, starting with securing our border and fixing the front door of legal immigration, then he needs to work with Congress as the Constitution requires any president to do.” “Now it’s up to the Republican Senate to do their job.”
01.08.2015	“Real working-class Americans have seen their hours cut and paychecks shrink since ObamaCare redefined full-time as 30 hours instead of the traditional 40 hour work week. The Save American Workers Act reverses one of the worst provisions of ObamaCare and gives many Americans the opportunity to bring more money home. Until we can fully repeal ObamaCare, I’m going to keep working to dismantle it, piece by piece.” share: f t Washington, DC – After the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Save American Workers Act, the Chairman of the Ways & Means Health Subcommittee, Texas Republican Kevin Brady, released the following statement: “Real working-class Americans have seen their hours cut and paychecks shrink since ObamaCare redefined full-time as 30 hours instead of the traditional 40 hour work week. The Save American Workers Act reverses one of the worst provisions of ObamaCare and gives many Americans the opportunity to bring more money home. Until we can fully repeal ObamaCare, I’m going to keep working to dismantle it, piece by piece.” ###
01.06.2015	Washington, DC – After being sworn in as the 114th Congress, members of the U.S. House of Representatives went directly to work, passing the Hire More Heroes Act. “I've never been more excited to be a member of Congress and our first day back is a great example of why the next two years will be different," said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways & Means Health Subcommittee. "The first thing we did was pass the Hire More Heroes Act, which circumvents a harmful ObamaCare rule and helps make it easier for local businesses to hire returning veterans. These are the men and women who have served our nation and often made remarkable sacrifices. It’s gratifying to know that bills like this will finally be taken up by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk.” ###
12.17.2014	Texas Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the Senate passed important tax extenders. share: f t "Texas families have kept more than $10 billion in their family budgets since we successfully fought to restore Texas' sales tax deduction a decade ago. While I'm pleased that the Senate has voted with the House to keep this tax fairness in place so Texas families don't have to send more of their hard-earned paychecks to Washington, DC, I will continue to fight to make this important deduction permanent."
12.11.2014	“This is all about a unified Republican Congress challenging the President’ s immigration amnesty early next year on our turf, under our rules. This gives us a much better shot at ending it,” share: f t Washington, DC – In an effort to stop the President’s executive actions granting amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants, House Republicans today passed legislation which provides only three months of funding for the Department of Homeland Security, setting up a fight with President Obama over his controversial immigration amnesty for early next year. “This is all about a unified Republican Congress challenging the President’ s immigration amnesty early next year on our turf, under our rules. This gives us a much better shot at ending it,” said Texas Republican Kevin Brady. “The House has already passed two laws stopping the President from offering executive amnesty but the Democratic-led Senate refuses to take them up. Separating Homeland Security funding sidesteps the President’s government shutdown trap next year.” The bill – strongly opposed by liberal lawmakers like Nancy Pelosi and Elizabeth Warren - shrinks the operating budget of the federal government to 2009 levels and maintains most of the sequester cuts while restoring necessary funding to America’s military men and women in the ongoing war on terror. “Nine stable months of funding for our military during wartime is essential, while a short-term funding bill would be harmful to our troops and make it more difficult to stop the President’s executive amnesty,” continued Brady. “We’re slashing the EPA staffing levels to the smallest in 25 years and cutting the IRS budget to protect Americans from their political agendas and economic damage. The bill blocks funding for the President’s Affordable Care Act, as well as ObamaCare taxpayer bailout for the insurance companies. We’re giving our hardworking troops a much-needed pay raise and making sure they have the resources to face the ever-growing terrorist threat of ISIL.” Additional conservative measures include prohibiting funds being used to transfer detainees from Guantanamo Bay, cutting $10 million from the ACA rationing board, blocking the White House from tapping a slush fund to operate ObamaCare, rescinding $41 million in VA bonuses, while providing additional funds to ease the backlog of veterans waiting for disability decisions. The measure also maintains all pro-life and Second Amendment provisions, specifically preventing implementation of the U.N. Arms Trade Treaty. “The EPA budget is going to be cut for the fifth consecutive year, and we’re going to stop the new job-killing Clean Water Act regulations for farm ponds and irrigation ditches. The Vice President isn’t going to get his pay-raise, but we will make sure our highway projects and the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are funded. We’re going to help Ukraine counter Russian aggression and our embassies are going to have the protection they need. And we’re going to stop the Department of Energy from forcing manufacturers to stop producing incandescent light bulbs, but require the President to give us a cost estimate with every Executive Order. “There will always be more red tape we can slash, more spending we can cut and this bill is a step in the right direction. I look forward to working with Senate Republicans in the next two years to roll back Washington so that Americans once again have an effective, efficient federal government that they can trust,” concluded Brady. ###
12.04.2014	Israel’s strength is key to calming relations in the Middle East and America should never falter in offering our ally the resources they need to protect their people and promote the shining light of democracy and freedom so needed in that troubled region. share: f t Washington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady released this statement following passage of the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014, legislation which reaffirms principles in previous agreements between the U.S. and Israel, pursues greater cooperation and promises continued security assistance to Israel: “Israel is our friend and our greatest ally in the Middle East. They have earned and deserve our unwavering support and cooperation. Israel’s strength is key to calming relations in the Middle East and America should never falter in offering our ally the resources they need to protect their people and promote the shining light of democracy and freedom so needed in that troubled region. I encourage President Obama to seek to strengthen this very special relationship between our two nations.” ###
12.04.2014	“Making sure that our military is ready to protect our nation is one of the most important functions of Congress,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, noting that the legislation authorizes a pay-raise of up to 1.8 percent for U.S. troops. “As we seek to bolster our cybersecurity and counter terrorism in this dangerous world, it’s critical for our military and intelligence communities to have the training and equipment necessary.” share: f t Washington, DC – Through a bipartisan, bicameral agreement the U.S. House voted today to pass the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), legislation which provides funding for America’s military and the nation’s defense. The NDAA also promotes American job creation and economic growth by cutting red tape for energy production on federal lands. “Making sure that our military is ready to protect our nation is one of the most important functions of Congress,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, noting that the legislation authorizes a pay-raise of up to 1.8 percent for U.S. troops. “As we seek to bolster our cybersecurity and counter terrorism in this dangerous world, it’s critical for our military and intelligence communities to have the training and equipment necessary.” The NDAA also authorizes the Department of the Interior to hold auctions for onshore oil and gas leases on federal lands, streamlining the process which will lead to increased energy production and job creation. Brady continued, “America is experiencing an energy boom despite the White House’s objections to increased drilling on federal lands. Finally removing these roadblocks will allow our nation to move ever closer to energy independence, a vital national security interest and an economic benefit to every American.” ###
12.04.2014	“The Constitution is explicit on this issue. Congress establishes the rules for immigration and the President is supposed to enforce those rules,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “President Obama publicly admitted this almost two dozen times in recent years.” share: f t Washington, DC – Working to stop the President’s controversial executive action to offer amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants without legal authority, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation today to prohibit the White House from offering deportation exemptions or work permits to large classes of illegal immigrants. “The Constitution is explicit on this issue. Congress establishes the rules for immigration and the President is supposed to enforce those rules,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “President Obama publicly admitted this almost two dozen times in recent years.” The President told an audience on Univision in March of 2011, “There are enough laws on the books by Congress that are very clear in terms of how we have to enforce our immigration system that for me to simply through executive order ignore those congressional mandates would not conform with my appropriate role as President.” “I’m not a constitutional law professor like the President,” added Brady. “but executive amnesty is unconstitutional. It’s that simple.” “The President keeps telling us to just pass a bill, but the House did pass a bill this summer that made it clear that immigration reform begins with securing the border. The President’s actions, unfortunately, have simply invited even more people to cross our borders illegally and poisoned the well on future immigration reform in Congress,” Brady concluded. ###
12.04.2014	The Affordable Care Act is hurting more people than it is helping and needs to be replaced with options that work for patients, not Washington. share: f t Washington, DC – The incoming chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, today announced that Texas Congressman Kevin Brady will continue as chairman of the Health Subcommittee in the next session of Congress. Brady, who brought lawmakers of both parties together to craft a new permanent solution to the flawed way Medicare pays local doctors when treating seniors, will remain a leader in congressional efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, save Medicare, root out fraud and make health care more affordable for patients, families and local businesses. “What happens over the next two years with American health care will shape it for better or worse for generations to come, so I’m thrilled to remain in the thick of the health care debate,” said Brady. “The Affordable Care Act is hurting more people than it is helping and needs to be replaced with options that work for patients, not Washington. I hope to conclude by March a new, fairer way to pay local physicians so they can afford to keep seeing our Medicare seniors, and to take the steps necessary to save Medicare for the long haul.” Brady will also continue as a champion for free trade as a member of the Trade Subcommittee, which he chaired before leading the health care panel on Ways & Means. #
12.02.2014	“It’s pretty self-explanatory. American taxpayers should not be awarding Social Security benefits to Nazis. End of story,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, who serves on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. share: f t Washington, DC – Following revelations that some Nazi persecutors were receiving Social Security benefits due to a loophole in the law, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation which terminates these benefits. “It’s pretty self-explanatory. American taxpayers should not be awarding Social Security benefits to Nazis. End of story,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, who serves on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. “With Social Security barreling towards bankruptcy at breakneck speed, every dime is precious and these benefits should only go to those who have earned them. As we work to preserve Social Security for future generations in the next Congress, I hope to see the same level of bipartisan support for common sense solutions.” ###
11.20.2014	“A White House that touts itself as the most transparent in history and claims to want to promote American manufacturing should embrace these bills and encourage the Senate to pass them,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. share: f t ‘We’re working to slash red tape and promote job creation,’ Brady says Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives is taking on the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by passing three new bills aimed at making the EPA more transparent and accountable. The legislation prohibits the EPA from finalizing regulations unless the scientific data behind the legislation is made public and available for independent analysis and seeks to make the EPA’s Scientific Advisory Board less political by requiring the board to be comprised of individuals with scientific and technical training and backgrounds, and to include members from local governments. The EPA will be also be required to increase transparency and reduce delays with their permitting process under the Clean Air Act, potentially kick-starting stalled manufacturing projects and creating new jobs. “A White House that touts itself as the most transparent in history and claims to want to promote American manufacturing should embrace these bills and encourage the Senate to pass them,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “Instead the President has threatened to veto these bills, choosing to side with radical environmentalists and unaccountable EPA bureaucrats over American families and small businesses.” “America’s energy renaissance should be a huge American manufacturing boon creating tens of thousands good-paying jobs for the American people,” continued Brady. “House Republicans are working to slash the red tape currently stalling this growth, giving our local businesses the breathing room they need to expand and create new jobs.” ###
09.25.2014	Enforcing the laws of our nation is the chief job of the U.S. Attorney General and Eric Holder has repeatedly refused to do so. share: f t ‘Hopefully his successor will be more interested in enforcing our nation’s laws’Washington, DC – Texas Republican Congressman, Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement regarding the news that United States Attorney General Eric Holder is announcing his resignation:“Enforcing the laws of our nation is the chief job of the U.S. Attorney General and Eric Holder has repeatedly refused to do so. Holder leaves behind a record that includes ignoring the clearly unlawful behavior of IRS employee Lois Lerner, illegal gun-running to Mexican drug cartels and being held in contempt by the U.S. House of Representatives. This is why I and several other Republican House members called for his resignation a long time ago. His resignation is great news for the American people and we can only hope that the President nominates a successor who will be interested in enforcing all of the laws of our land, and not just the ones that are politically expedient for the White House.”###
09.18.2014	Speeding up the permitting process for natural gas pipelines, increasing offshore and onshore production of oil, and reining in the EPA's flood of red tape is all about American energy independence and good paying jobs, Brady concluded. "As families and small businesses do more with less to cope with President Obama's historically weak economic recovery, the best thing Washington can do is simply get out of the way." share: f t ‘This White House says they want energy independence, then rolls out the red tape,’ says BradyWashington, DC – In order to bolster the current boom in American-made energy, the U.S. House of Representatives today voted to get Washington out of the way. This package of previously passed House bills will ensure reliable production and transportation of domestic energy, and includes approval for the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline’s northern route by removing the need for a Presidential permit.“Unleashing America’s domestic energy production – which has grown in spite of this White House’s policies -- will go a long way to help struggling families who need good-paying jobs,” said Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “The President claims he wants American energy independence, but has rolled out the red tape, entangling our energy producers. And, after six years of waiting, President Obama still refuses to approve the job-creating Keystone XL Pipeline.”“Speeding up the permitting process for natural gas pipelines, increasing offshore and onshore production of oil, and reining in the EPA’s flood of red tape is all about American energy independence and good paying jobs,” Brady concluded. “As families and small businesses do more with less to cope with President Obama’s historically weak economic recovery, the best thing Washington can do is simply get out of the way.”###
09.18.2014	Providing real tax relief and certainty for American companies is all about job creation and economic growth, added Brady. "Local businesses in my district say Washington throws up too many road blocks to growth. This package of bills is about removing those road blocks and unleashing entrepreneurs to do what they do best." share: f t Rep. Brady’s Bill to Jump Start Innovation is a Key Part of House Jobs Bill PackageWashington, DC – Even in the worst economic recovery in half a century, America’s local businesses want to innovate and grow. Unfortunately, a bloated federal government and unfair tax code are holding back much needed job creation and stifling American research, causing us to lose ground to nations such as China.“The U.S. House is sending the Senate a very simple message – it’s time to unleash American innovation by getting Washington out of the way,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady whose legislation to make the Research & Development Tax Credit permanent is a key part of the House Ways & Means Committee jobs package. “America is the world’s leading innovator, but we are slipping and risk falling behind other nations. Instead of burying American innovators in red tape and an ever-changing tax code, let’s remove the obstacles that keep them from investing in new jobs and technologies right here at home.”The bipartisan tax policies the House is voting on are all focused on securing America’s competitiveness in a global economy. Brady’s legislation simplifies and strengthens the U.S. R&D tax credit, offering strong incentives that will attract new research and development spending, and the jobs that will follow.“Providing real tax relief and certainty for American companies is all about job creation and economic growth,” added Brady. “Local businesses in my district say Washington throws up too many road blocks to growth. This package of bills is about removing those road blocks and unleashing entrepreneurs to do what they do best.”The Bills/Amendments and sponsors included in the House jobs package:H.R. 4438, the American Research and Competitiveness Act: Representative Kevin Brady (TX-08)H.R. 4457, the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act: Representative Pat Tiberi’s (OH-12)H.R. 4453, the S Corporation Permanent Tax Relief Act: Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08)H.R. 4718, making permanent bonus depreciation: Representative Pat Tiberi (OH-12)Amendment to H.J. Res. 59, the Protect Medical Innovation Act: Representative Erik Paulsen (MN-03)###
09.17.2014	It's clear that ISIL is the best equipped and financed terrorist threat America has faced, and left unchecked is a grave threat to our security, said Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady, who voted in favor of the legislation. "Air strikes alone are not enough; capable armed forces on the ground are necessary." share: f t Brady Votes to Train Syrians to Fight Terror Threat ISILWashington, DC– The U.S. House of Representatives voted this evening to give Congressional authorization to the Secretary of Defense to immediately begin the process of training and equipping the Free Syrian Army (FSA), the moderate opposition fighting the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad and the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The measure that passed with strong bipartisan support restricts the Administration’s authority, emphasizes Congressional oversight and places a 90 day time limit on the authorization.“It’s clear that ISIL is the best equipped and financed terrorist threat America has faced, and left unchecked is a grave threat to our security,” said Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady, who voted in favor of the legislation. “Air strikes alone are not enough; capable armed forces on the ground are necessary."“While I’m not convinced this needed first step is nearly enough to defeat ISIL, America needs to act now to train and equip vetted Syrian forces that are already on the ground, fighting against our common enemy where they live. The responsibility is now President Obama’s to build a coalition with our allies to eliminate this terror threat, including strengthening our own border against the thousands of fighters who hold Western passports and can easily travel to Europe and the United States.”###
09.17.2014	Something as simple as a transportation option for veterans living in rural areas can mean so much, continued Brady. "We should always be looking for innovative ways to make our veterans care better. I'm proud the House is taking strong steps to stand for those who have stood for us, those who risked all to protect our freedoms deserve no less." share: f t U.S. House Moves to Improve the Lives of VeteransWashington, DC– This week, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a series of bills to improve veteran care, preserve options for veterans and protect their standard of living, while forcing the VA to be better stewards of hard-earned tax dollars.“One of Congress’ top responsibilities is making sure promises are kept to those who don the uniform to protect America and preserve freedom,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady who supported these measures to help America’s veterans. “These bills ensure care for our veterans is not disrupted, by preserving options for veterans with service-connected disabilities, as well as disabled and homeless veterans.”Necessary supports are also provided to our most vulnerable veterans by continuing the pilot program for veterans suffering from traumatic brain injuries. The bills also continue to address the issue of care at the VA by dealing with well-known and serious problems with the broken system of major VA medical facility construction delays, by requiring a manager with practical experience in building medical facilities to lead the projects.“Something as simple as a transportation option for veterans living in rural areas can mean so much,” continued Brady. “We should always be looking for innovative ways to make our veterans care better. I’m proud the House is taking strong steps to stand for those who have stood for us, those who risked all to protect our freedoms deserve no less.”###
09.17.2014	The bottom line is seniors in the 8th district of Texas and across the country have paid into Medicare their entire working lives for the promise it will be there when they need it, concluded Brady. "Having a solvent, reliable trust fund is common sense policy." share: f t The US House Works to Make a Positive IMPACT Brady speaks out for improving Medicare when seniors need it the mostWashington, DC– Yesterday, the House passedthe IMPACT Act – a bi-partisan effort to establish standard data and metrics across all of Medicare’s post hospitalization settings, including nursing homes and rehabilitation facilities. This important information will allow Congress to make future reforms armed with the facts.“This is the first step towards improving post-acute care for our seniors and it is simply the right thing to do,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, who leads the House Ways & Means Health Subcommittee. “How Medicare takes care of patients once they leave the hospital is just as important – if not more important – than the care they receive while hospitalized. It’s been over a decade since meaningful changes have been made in this important area and the IMPACT Act is a big step towards a 21st Century solution.”“When such a key program our seniors rely on has a trust fund that is a ticking time bomb, it’s not a Republican or Democrat problem,” added Brady. “Keeping promises to our seniors requires bipartisan action and the IMPACT Act is a vital move towards Medicare’s financial security.”“The bottom line is seniors in the 8th district of Texas and across the country have paid into Medicare their entire working lives for the promise it will be there when they need it,” concluded Brady. “Having a solvent, reliable trust fund is common sense policy.”###
09.11.2014	While the President has tried to explain away his oft-repeated promise, House Republicans are acting to ensure that Americans actually continue to have the right to keep their plan and to keep their trusted doctors, continued Brady. "And we'll continue to fight to repeal the President's health care law and replace it with patient-centered, cost-savingreform that makes health care more affordable and more accessible." share: f t House Republicans Vote to Fix President’s Broken PromiseWashington, DC – In an effort to protect Americans from the negative consequences of the President’s Affordable Care Act, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass legislation today which will allow American families who purchase health care through a group market to keep the health care plan they have and like. The Employee Health Care Protection Act will grandfather plans that were available in the group market in 2013 and allow health insurance companies to continue to offer these plans to the public outside of the insurance exchanges through 2018.“President Obama told the American people, ‘If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor, period. If you like your health care plan, you’ll be able to keep your health care plan, period’,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the House Ways & Means Health subcommittee. “When someone puts the word “period” at the end of the sentence, that’s supposed to mean there’s nothing else to add. But millions of American workers and families found out this year that the President’s promise simply wasn’t true whenthey learned their plans had been cancelled and that their doctor was not in their network.”Late last year, the House also passed the Keep Your Health Care Plan Act, a similar measure which allows the millions of Americans who purchase their health insurance through the individual market to also keep the plan they had and liked. “While the President has tried to explain away his oft-repeated promise, House Republicans are acting to ensure that Americans actually continue to have the right to keep their plan and to keep their trusted doctors,” continued Brady. “And we’ll continue to fight to repeal the President’s health care law and replace it with patient-centered, cost-savingreform that makes health care more affordable and more accessible.”###
09.05.2014	As Americans, we can't accept this President's definition of economic recovery. After more than five years, it's pretty obvious that the Obama Administration's economic policies haven't delivered for middle class America. The recovery might be going just fine on Wall Street, but most Americans have waited too long for it to come to their street, Brady added. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseContact: Al Felzenberg: JEC Office Desk (202-226-2490) September 5, 2014Work Cellular: (202-695-5797) Obama Recovery Continues to DisappointBrady calls Jobs Report “A Step Backward”Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee commented on today’s employment situation report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) that the economy added 142,000 nonfarm payroll jobs (134,000 in the private sector) and the unemployment rate declined to 6.1% during the month of August. “The White House can continue to hype the recovery all it wants. The fact is that today’s disappointing jobs report represents a step backward. The private sector jobs gap of the Obama recovery compared to an average recovery stands at 5.9 million when measured from the end of the recession. To close that gap by the end of President Obama’s term, the economy needs to add more than 380,000 private sector jobs each and every month. That’s something this recovery has not managed on even a single occasion,” Brady said.“As Americans, we can’t accept this President’s definition of economic recovery. After more than five years, it’s pretty obvious that the Obama Administration’s economic policies haven’t delivered for middle class America. The recovery might be going just fine on Wall Street, but most Americans have waited too long for it to come to their street,” Brady added.###
08.01.2014	By refusing to enforce the laws of the land, President Obama helped create this crisis and does nothing to stop it. While the Senate leaves town without lifting a finger to solve the problem, House Republicans alone are successfully completing the work to secure the border, deter these dangerous journeys and quickly reunite these children with their families in Central America, said Brady, who recently visited a facility in his district being used to house some of the unaccompanied minors. share: f t Brady: Ignoring Border Security & Crisis Not an OptionWashington, DC – As Senators scurried out of town without acting, Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass two bills aimed directly at the root cause of the unprecedented border crisis that has attracted 150,000 Central American children to the U.S. border.The first secures the border with the National Guard and closes an easily exploited loophole in the 2008 trafficking law so that unaccompanied children can be quickly reunited with their families back in Central America. The second bill blocks President Obama’s soon-to-be-announced executive order which would provide amnesty to an additional 5 million immigrants living in the country illegally.Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX) cosponsored the legislation offered by Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) that suspends the president’s 2012 executive order which human smugglers are using to convince Central American families to pay thousands of dollars and risk their children’s lives on a dangerous journey to the U.S. border in hopes of obtaining a permit to stay that doesn’t exist.“By refusing to enforce the laws of the land, President Obama helped create this crisis and does nothing to stop it. While the Senate leaves town without lifting a finger to solve the problem, House Republicans alone are successfully completing the work to secure the border, deter these dangerous journeys and quickly reunite these children with their families in Central America,” said Brady, who recently visited a facility in his district being used to house some of the unaccompanied minors.“House Republicans have acted to secure the border with our National Guard and reimburse Texas for its National Guard costs. We don’t give President Obama a dime to continue to ignore the root cause of this crisis, but instead we direct unused federal funds to security, temporary judges and travel costs to reunite these children with their families.”The legislation ends the practice of releasing Central American children into U.S. communities where they often disappear. It requires U.S. authorities to humanely detain the children, have their cases heard within 14 days and promptly return them to their home countries. The measure also takes $40 million from foreign aid to the three key Central American governments and requires the funds be used to help reunite the children safely with their families..“People in my congressional district are tremendously compassionate. They don’t want these children to risk dangerous journeys where they could be hurt, abused or killed. They want them reunited with their families,” said Brady. “They welcome and respect immigrants to Texas, but they insist that they apply through the front door of legal immigration. And they want to know when the President is going to stop ignoring our laws and making up new ones.”###
07.31.2014	House Republicans are staying here and I am optimistic that we're going to keep working until we have a bill that secures our border and stops this crisis the President has created. share: f t Washington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement regarding ongoing efforts in the House to pass a border supplemental bill:“House Republicans are staying here and I am optimistic that we’re going to keep working until we have a bill that secures our border and stops this crisis the President has created.”###
07.31.2014	I'm thankful for the whistle-blowers who were courageous enough to come forward and expose the deception that was hurting veterans, and in some cases costing them their lives. The brave men and women who served our nation in the military have earned this care – they deserve this care – and Congress is right to make sure every promise is kept. share: f t Legislation ensures accountability and transparency for VA systemWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives yesterday voted to pass the Veteran’s Access to Care through Choice, Accountability and Transparency Act, sending it to the President’s desk for his signature. The legislation will require Veteran’s Affairs to authorize payment at a non-VA facility for veterans who cannot secure an appointment within 30 days or live more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility.“Many of our local veterans have received excellent care from the VA, but throughout the country, others have suffered neglect due to a system that lacks transparency,” said Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX). “This law will not only hold the VA system more accountable, it will add resources so that veterans get the timely care they need.”The law authorizes funds to be spent to hire more medical professionals and create more health care facilities throughout the country, gives the VA authority to fire or demote employees for a poor performance job record or misconduct, and requires an independent assessment on the efficacy of the VA system.“I’m thankful for the whistle-blowers who were courageous enough to come forward and expose the deception that was hurting veterans, and in some cases costing them their lives. The brave men and women who served our nation in the military have earned this care – they deserve this care – and Congress is right to make sure every promise is kept.”###
07.31.2014	Average Americans must follow the law, so why doesn't the president of the United States? share: f t ‘Blatant disregard for the Constitution leaves Congress very little choice,’ says Texas RepublicanWashington, DC – Texas Congressman and chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, Kevin Brady, released this statement following the successful passage of legislation by the U.S. House of Representatives which authorizes Congress to sue the President:“Average Americans must follow the law, so why doesn’t the President of the United States?“Whether you’re Republican, Democrat, independent or libertarian, we can all agree that no president of any party should be able to pick and choose which laws to follow and which to ignore. The courts have repeatedly agreed that this White House has created laws where none exist and ignored others.“Since the Attorney General of the U.S. won’t uphold the rule of law, it’s up to the House of Representatives to maintain the checks and balances within the Constitution that have served our country so well for more than two centuries. This blatant disregard for the Constitution leaves Congress very little choice – so for the sake of our children and grandchildren we must defend the Constitution and ensure that no politician can override the laws of our land.”###
07.29.2014	"To me, the facility is a symptom of a larger problem, which is a President who helped create this crisis on the border and who is unwilling to deter more children from making that dangerous trip or promptly reunite them with their families in their home country." share: f t Brady predicts House Republicans will act this week to address border crisis.Conroe – At the request of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, officials from Montgomery County, the city of Conroe and state legislators were given a tour of the Southwest Key facility in Conroe, to get a firsthand look at how the local shelter is handling unaccompanied minors who have illegally crossed the border.Attending with Brady were Conroe Mayor Webb Melder, Montgomery County Judge Alan Sadler, Montgomery County Sheriff Tommy Gage, State Representatives Brandon Creighton, Steve Toth and Cecil Bell, State Representative-elect Mark Keough, a representative of State Senator Robert Nichols, and Will Metcalf. They toured the facility and participated in a question and answer session with Southwest Key’s Regional Director and Program manager, and field specialists from the U.S. Health and Human Service’s Office of Refugee Resettlement.“Our local leaders have voiced their frustration at getting their concerns about the facility addressed. I wanted to make sure they could see the facility first hand and get their questions answered by facility and federal officials,” said Brady who organized the meeting. “To me, the facility is a symptom of a larger problem, which is a President who helped create this crisis on the border and who is unwilling to deter more children from making that dangerous trip or promptly reunite them with their families in their home country.”Based in Austin, Southwest Key is a national nonprofit organization that operates more than a dozen shelters in three border states. They have two facilities in Houston as well as the Conroe facility which opened in 2006. The Texas Department of Family and Protective Services licenses and monitors these shelters and meeting those standards is a required step in receiving any federal funding for sheltering unaccompanied minors. “Texas can’t secure the border alone. If the President and the Democratic Senate won’t act, Republicans in the House will,” said Brady. “We will fund the National Guard to help the border patrol secure the U.S. border and give border officials full access to federal lands along the border to address this unprecedented crisis.”“This week we intend to pass legislation that secures the border, deters future dangerous journeys for children from Central America and reunites children with their families back home. We will change the 2008 law that is being misused, require these cases to be filed within seven days and staff enough temporary judges to decide these cases within three days. We will end ‘house and release’ and fund transportation back to their home countries – redirecting $40 million in previous foreign aid to Central American countries to be used to take these children home to their families.”The $659 million GOP package will all be used in this budget year and is funded from unused accounts in the federal budget.###
07.24.2014	The President created the crisis at the border and he can stop it now, said Representative Kevin Brady share: f t “Deter and return is the answer to border crisis” says BradyWashington, DC– A united Texas GOP delegation delivered a letter today to the President of the United States detailing actions he can immediately take in order to stem the flow of unaccompanied children crossing the border illegally.“The President created the crisis at the border and he can stop it now,” said Representative Kevin Brady, who represents Conroe, a city in which one of the facilities housing these unaccompanied minors is located. “First by announcing from the Oval Office that these children will be immediately returned to their families in their home country. Secondly by ending the ‘catch and release’ program for illegal immigrants of all ages. Thirdly by working with Texas Republicans to secure the border and change the human trafficking law being wrongly manipulated in this crisis.” ###
07.22.2014	No one – not the President and certainly not unaccountable agency bureaucrats – should be able to claim that a law says something it simply doesn't. This ruling is a victory for the rule of law and the American people. share: f t Health Panel Chair: Ruling is a victory for the rule of lawWashington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the court decision of Halbig v. Burwell:“While I maintain that the Affordable Care Act is one of the worst-written laws to ever get shoved down the throats of the American people, I’m thankful that these judges upheld the plain reading of the text. Congressional Democrats crafted this law to compel states to either set up their own exchanges or forego federal subsidies. When their plans were thwarted by clear-thinking governors, they simply ignored their own words, refusing to enforce the law as it was written. No one – not the President and certainly not unaccountable agency bureaucrats – should be able to claim that a law says something it simply doesn’t. This ruling is a victory for the rule of law and the American people.”###
07.17.2014	Americans are the most generous people in the world -- always ready to help their neighbor, whether that's next door or across an ocean, said Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who is a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. share: f t Ways & Means Member: Americans want to give more; just not to WashingtonWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass another Ways and Means Committee bill which makes permanent several parts of the U.S. Tax Code relating to charitable giving.“Americans are the most generous people in the world -- always ready to help their neighbor, whether that’s next door or across an ocean,” said Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who is a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Most are ready to give away even more of their hard-earned paychecks to those who need it, but they are tired of sending it to Washington where they know it disappears into a bloated and wasteful federal budget.”The America Gives More Act combines five bipartisan bills reported out of the House Ways and Means Committee that will make it easier for businesses to fight hunger in America, for farmers and ranchers to donate easements for conservation purposes, for individuals to donate from an IRA to a charitable organization and to donate more money to charities before filing their taxes, and for foundations to donate more generously to charitable organizations.###
07.16.2014	This legislation will keep them focused on providing the respectful customer service that taxpayers deserve and stop them from using resources to create ridiculous training videos, putting on multi-million dollar conferences, or going after Americans for speaking out against the current White House administration. Federal agencies should serve the taxpayers who pay for their funding, not target them. share: f t Brady: Federal agencies should serve taxpayers, not target themWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed 2015 spending levels for the general government and financial services, shrinking the budget $566 million below last year’s level. The bill also abolishes nine federal programs, cuts funding for a dozen more and reduces the Internal Revenue Service to below its 2003 funding levels.“As long as IRS officials continue to stonewall the congressional investigation into their illegal actions surrounding the targeting of conservative organizations, they can expect to see their budget cut even further. They have broken the trust of the American people,” said U.S. Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee which has lead the investigation into IRS targeting of conservative groups. “I for one am not going to vote to increase funding to an agency that uses its power to bully and intimidate honest Americans.”The legislation prohibits the IRS from targeting taxpayers for their ideological beliefs, implementing the new 501(c)(4) regulations that would further restrict the political activities of non-profit organizations, and prevents funding for the use of destroying agency records. It also stops the IRS from using funds to enforce the Affordable Care Act’s mandate that requires workers buy government approved health care or pay a tax.“This legislation will keep them focused on providing the respectful customer service that taxpayers deserve and stop them from using resources to create ridiculous training videos, putting on multi-million dollar conferences, or going after Americans for speaking out against the current White House administration. Federal agencies should serve the taxpayers who pay for their funding, not target them.”###
07.11.2014	Business investment is the missing ingredient in this economic recovery. Making it more affordable for local businesses to buy new equipment and technology – and the certainty that comes with permanence – will create jobs, spur the economy and help us balance the federal budget. share: f t ‘Why would the President prefer unemployment checks to paychecks?’ asks BradyWashington, DC – Under threat of a veto from President Obama, the U.S. House of Representatives today passed bipartisan legislation which will permanently make it easier for local businesses to deduct from their taxes the costs of new equipment, software and buildings.This bipartisan permanent tax cut, estimated by the Tax Foundation to create 212,000 new jobs, was supported on the floor by 34 Democrats who broke with the President and voted in favor of the bill.“In this disappointing economic recovery, why would the President fight our local businesses? Why does he seem to prefer that Americans get unemployment checks instead of paychecks?” asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee and proponent of pro-growth tax reform. “Business investment is the missing ingredient in this economic recovery. Making it more affordable for local businesses to buy new equipment and technology – and the certainty that comes with permanence – will create jobs, spur the economy and help us balance the federal budget.”The tax-writing Ways and Means Committee has successfully passed eleven permanent tax cut proposals out of committee this year which will make temporary tax provisions into a permanent part of the tax code. Previously, bonus depreciation has been extended, expanded or increased seven times as a temporary measure over the past decade with the support of several leading Democrats in the House, and signed into law three times by the President.###*Video: Congressman Kevin Brady speaks on the House floor in favor of making bonus depreciation permanent - http://youtu.be/cAaWTeJbKAk
07.10.2014	The IRS has stonewalled this investigation from the word go, and we will need every constitutional tool at our disposal including the courts to get to the truth. The court's ruling was proper and timely, said the Texas Republican, who is helping lead the congressional investigation into the IRS targeting of conservative organizations, singling them out for their political beliefs. share: f t Washington, DC– U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee, today commended a federal judge for ordering the IRS to give a thorough explanation as to how the emails of several IRS employees, which are key to a congressional investigation, were lost.“The IRS has stonewalled this investigation from the word go, and we will need every constitutional tool at our disposal, including the courts, to get to the truth. The court’s ruling was proper and timely,” said the Texas Republican, who is helping lead the congressional investigation into the IRS targeting of conservative organizations, singling them out for their political beliefs.One of the plaintiff organizations which has filed suit against the IRS, True the Vote, has been championed by Brady as an example of outrageous IRS targeting.“Testimony before Congress from IRS officials under oath has been misleading and contradictory. Since the President will not direct his agencies to cooperate, nor instruct Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a special prosecutor or pursue the congressional referral of criminal misconduct, these aggrieved taxpayers have little choice but to pursue justice through the courts.”###
07.09.2014	Senate Democrats want to repeal the religious freedoms of Americans and allow the federal government to force family-run businesses to violate their own religious beliefs. I predict this extreme attack on these treasured rights of Americans will fail. share: f t ‘I predict this extreme attack on the treasured rights of Americans will fail,’ says BradyWashington, DC – The leader of the U.S. House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, released the following statement regarding Senate Democrat plans to reverse the Supreme Court’s ruling in favor of Hobby Lobby through new legislation:“Senate Democrats want to repeal the religious freedoms of Americans and allow the federal government to force family-run businesses to violate their own religious beliefs. I predict this extreme attack on these treasured rights of Americans will fail.“They should be using their time to address the harm done by the Affordable Care Act, including rising health care costs, lost jobs, and Americans forced out of their plans and unable to see their doctor or hospital of choice. Senate Democrats are out of touch with working Americans.”###
06.30.2014	Punishing family business owners for their religious beliefs, who are providing living wages and excellent benefits to their workers, is unjust and frankly, un-American, especially when the White House has crafted an abundance of exemptions for political friends. share: f t ‘Family business owners do not lose religious freedoms when they become job creators,’ says BradyWashington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s Burwell v Hobby Lobby decision: “Today’s ruling was a victory for one of the bedrock principles of our nation – the freedom of religion. This landmark decision made it clear that family business owners do not lose this freedom when they become job creators and that no American should be forced to choose between submitting to burdensome government regulation and paying crushing fines to following their deeply held spiritual beliefs. Punishing family business owners for their religious beliefs, who are providing living wages and excellent benefits to their workers, is unjust and frankly, un-American, especially when the White House has crafted an abundance of exemptions for political friends. I applaud this Supreme Court decision and hope they deliver a similar ruling for the non-profit cases still pending.”###
06.26.2014	Expanding domestic energy production has far-reaching consequences for U.S. manufacturing, job creation and economic growth, said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, "In spite of the current administration's policies, energy production on private land is sparking an American energy renaissance. I, for one, want to increase that momentum by getting Washington out of the way. Instead of roadblocks, let's slash red tape, streamline the permitting process and open up more land for energy production." share: f t U.S. House Passes Jobs Bills to Bolster American Energy Renaissance‘Expanding domestic energy production has far reaching consequences for American families & businesses,’ says BradyWashington, DC – As Americans pay more at the pump, the U.S. House of Representatives has been busy passing a series of bills to bolster American energy production, fuel economic growth and promote job creation.“Expanding domestic energy production has far-reaching consequences for U.S. manufacturing, job creation and economic growth,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, “In spite of the current administration’s policies, energy production on private land is sparking an American energy renaissance. I, for one, want to increase that momentum by getting Washington out of the way. Instead of roadblocks, let’s slash red tape, streamline the permitting process and open up more land for energy production.”One of the bills passed this week would allow the expansion of onshore energy production by streamlining the permitting process and reducing unnecessary red tape. A second bill, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, will expedite the export application for Liquid Natural Gas (LNG), and the third bill will eliminate the need for a Presidential Permit for the production of pipelines that cross borders with Canada and Mexico.“The President claims that he supports an all-of-the-above approach to American energy, but his policies tell a different story. American families and small businesses are paying more as special interest groups celebrate President Obama’s roadblocks to domestic energy production,” Brady added, noting that the Obama administration has the four lowest years of federal acres being leased for energy production since 1988. “If the President really believes in ‘all-of-the-above’ energy, it’s time for him to pick up his phone and tell his friends in the Senate to pass these bills because he’s ready to use his pen to sign them.”###
06.20.2014	Given the clear evidence of criminal violations and confirmed pattern of untruthful agency statements, Commissioner Koskinen now leads the most corrupt and deceitful IRS in the history of the agency. It's apparent he is no longer working for the American people, but it is one more in a long line of recent acting IRS commissioners whose main purpose is to mislead investigators and cover up this scandal. share: f t Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement regarding today’s Ways and Means hearing with IRS Commissioner John Koskinen:“Today, Commissioner Koskinen confirmed through his contradictory testimony that he withheld key evidence from the congressional investigation into IRS targeting, and intentionally misled the committee when he promised in May to deliver all of Ms. Lois Lerner’s emails without limitation.“His continued claim that none of Ms. Lerner’s emails have been lost is contradicted by the IRS’s newest invention – that her hard-drive and server containing key years of emails has been irretrievably damaged and lost, along with the emails of six other key figures in the IRS investigation. That’s simply not believable."Given the clear evidence of criminal violations and confirmed pattern of untruthful agency statements, Commissioner Koskinen now leads the most corrupt and deceitful IRS in the history of the agency. It’s apparent he is no longer working for the American people, but it is one more in a long line of recent acting IRS commissioners whose main purpose is to mislead investigators and cover up this scandal."While Commissioner Koskinen and Congressional Democrats believe he is the victim and is owed an apology for being pressed to provide truthful answers into the investigation of IRS targeting of Americans for their political beliefs, I say he owes the targeted taxpayers an apology for the IRS trying to silence their voices.”###VIDEO: Brady to Koskinen: "This is the most corrupt and deceitful IRS in history." http://bit.ly/1npdTSg 1- Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, points to a letter that shows that the Treasury was made aware of the lost emails before Congress was informed, noting that the Treasury urged the IRS to make Congress aware immediately. 2- IRS Commissioner John Koskinen responds to questions from Texas Congressman Kevin Brady
06.18.2014	Brady says "It's wrong for Uncle Sam to swoop in when you die and take almost half of the nest egg you spent a lifetime building. And with women and minority-owned business people building their first generation of economic stability, the death tax punishes Americans when they work hard and succeed." share: f t ‘It’s time to bury the tax that hurts so many family-owned farms and businesses,’ says BradyWashington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, announced today that his bipartisan, bicameral bill to permanently repeal the Death Tax secured its 221st cosponsor in the House.“It’s official. A majority of the U.S. House stands for permanently repealing the terrible Death Tax. It continues to be the number one reason family-owned farms and businesses aren’t passed down to the next generation, and it’s time to bury it once and for all,” said Brady, who has led the long-standing fight to repeal the estate tax.While supporters succeeded in 2013 to exempting the first $10 million in assets for families, President Obama continues to push for higher tax rates on estates.Brady continued, “It’s wrong for Uncle Sam to swoop in when you die and take almost half of the nest egg you spent a lifetime building. And with women and minority-owned business people building their first generation of economic stability, the death tax punishes Americans when they work hard and succeed.”A recent study by former Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy at the Department of the Treasury, Stephen Entin, showed that the increase in other federal government tax revenue would exceed the revenue lost from repeal of the death tax by $89 billion through 2021.“At a time when we need to spur the economy and employment, abolishing the Death Tax is certainly a step in the right direction. It’s time to bury this tax that causes so much harm to the family farms, ranches and businesses that simply want to keep on operating, but may have to shut down or downsize due to this onerous tax. I look forward to voting to do away with the Death Tax once and for all,” Brady concluded.Senator John Thune (R-SD) introduced companion legislation in the U.S. Senate and currently has 37 cosponsors.###
06.13.2014	No matter how the White House tries to spin it, our current economic recovery is weak at best and small business owners have no confidence in the President's policies. House Republicans are working to do what business owners really need us to do in order for them to grow – get Washington out of the way, Brady concluded. share: f t Brady: Main Street businesses need tax deduction permanence to plan for the futureWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation yesterday that cuts taxes, aimed at making it easier for small businesses to invest in their own company and hire new workers. The America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2014 will finally make permanent a portion of the U.S. Tax Code that allows businesses to deduct expenses up to $500,000 immediately, instead of over the useful life of the property.“Small business owners in my district all tell me the same thing – they need a tax code that isn’t constantly changing and doesn’t work against them,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. “Instead of extending temporary pro-growth portions of the tax code over and over, it’s just common sense to make them permanent and give Main Street businesses the surety they need to plan for the future when it comes to hiring and expanding.”The legislation also makes permanent the ability for companies to expense computer software, air conditioning and heating units and certain investments in real property. The legislation was supported by over 150 organizations such as the National Federation of Independent Business, the National Restaurant Association and the National Retail Federation.“No matter how the White House tries to spin it, our current economic recovery is weak at best and small business owners have no confidence in the President’s policies. House Republicans are working to do what business owners really need us to do in order for them to grow – get Washington out of the way,” Brady concluded.###
06.10.2014	While many have received excellent care at our local VA facilities, others have fallen through the cracks of a bureaucracy that lacks accountability and transparency. One preventable veteran death is one too many," said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). "Thousands more are still waiting for appointments, needlessly suffering because they can't get in to see a doctor. There's just no excuse for this." share: f t VA system must be fixed, so this never happens again, says BradyWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today voted to ensure that veterans receive timely health care, allowing them to go outside the VA system if appointments are not available within a reasonable amount of time or if veterans live more than forty miles from a VA medical facility. The Veteran Access to Care Act authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to contract with non-VA facilities to provide health care for veterans, or to reimburse for services provided.“While many have received excellent care at our local VA facilities, others have fallen through the cracks of a bureaucracy that lacks accountability and transparency. One preventable veteran death is one too many,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). “Thousands more are still waiting for appointments, needlessly suffering because they can’t get in to see a doctor. There’s just no excuse for this.”The law also requires the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to have industry experts review the VA, looking for ways to improve care, and then submit a report to Congress on their findings. The Secretary will also be required to report to Congress with a plan for implementing the experts’ recommendations.“Ultimately, we have to get the VA system fixed so that this never happens again, but in the meantime, our veterans deserve immediate relief. It just makes sense to let those who have sacrificed so much for our nation to seek help elsewhere when the VA system fails them,” concluded Brady.###
06.06.2014	To put the anemic nature of Obama recovery in perspective, the United States will have to add 371,000 private sector jobs each month from now until the end of President Obama's term just to catch up to an average recovery. One problem - that monthly pace has never been reached in this disappointing recovery, Brady added. share: f t For Immediate Release Contact: Al Felzenberg: JEC Office Desk (202-226-2490) June 6, 2014 Work Cellular: (202-695-5797) Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the congressional Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s announcement by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) that the economy added 217,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 216,000 private sector jobs during May. BLS also reported that the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 6.3%.“It’s welcome news that our economy added 216,000 private sector jobs during May. Unfortunately, despite today’s news, the private sector jobs gap increased and now stands at 5.8 million,” Brady said.“To put the anemic nature of Obama recovery in perspective, the United States will have to add 371,000 private sector jobs each month from now until the end of President Obama’s term just to catch up to an average recovery. One problem - that monthly pace has never been reached in this disappointing recovery,” Brady added.“Americans hurt by this disappointing recovery will never enjoy a strong job market as long as the President continues his job killing ways, including imposing extreme global warming regulations that will cost jobs, and drive up energy prices with no noticeable impact on the earth's normal cooling and warming patterns. The President’s message to hardworking Americans is that he only cares about your job if it’s one he likes,” Brady continued.###
06.06.2014	There are a dwindling number of Americans who stormed the beaches of Normandy, France 70 years ago, but that only makes remembering what they did more important – not less. share: f t Seventy Years Ago Americans Changed the Cirection of WWIIConroe–U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued this statement for the 70th anniversary of D-Day.“There are a dwindling number of Americans who stormed the beaches of Normandy, France 70 years ago, but that only makes remembering what they did more important – not less. Those American heroes saved the world. Operation Neptune was the code name for the 160,000 Allied troops that accepted ‘nothing less than full victory.’ The price they paid for our freedom was a very high one. More than 9,000 were killed or wounded. Those that survived ended Hitler’s Third Reich. General Eisenhower was right when he told his troops that their ‘task would not be an easy one’ and that the ‘hopes and prayers of liberty loving people everywhere march with you.’ Today, let us all take a moment to remember the Greatest Generation and their sacrifices on those rocky French beaches.” ###
06.02.2014	These new rules make it clear that President Obama is more interested in pleasing ‘global warming' special interest groups than he is in creating jobs and ensuring energy independence for our country. share: f t 'Obama's war on energy is a war on American families,' says BradyWashington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement following the release of the EPA’s new carbon emissions rules:“These new rules make it clear that President Obama is more interested in pleasing ‘global warming’ special interest groups than he is in creating jobs and ensuring energy independence for our country. He continues to ignore the checks and balances put in place by our Constitution, choosing to implement extreme regulations that will harm our economy. His war on energy is really a war on the American family. While millions of Americans are still looking for good-paying jobs, the President’s administration is pushing out rules that kill job creation. While moms and dads are trying to balance the family budget, the EPA crams new red tape down our throats that will make energy prices sky-rocket. And when energy prices go up, the rest of the products that families need to buy will also go up. These burdensome new regulations are just another example of how the President’s policies continue to harm American families and businesses during this historically weak economic recovery. The bipartisan Electricity Security and Affordability Act I cosponsored would stop this new red tape and it’s time for Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to bring it up for a vote in the Senate.”###
05.30.2014	The men and women in uniform who protect this nation from our enemies deserve to have the best information and the best technologies available, both for our sake and theirs, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). "In this dangerous world, it's vital that America retains our edge and that our military has the resources necessary to respond to terrorist threats, both here at home and abroad." share: f t Legislation to Fund Intelligence Activities and Promote STEM Education Supported by Congressman BradyWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed an authorization bill that will provide American government intelligence agencies the resources they need to protect and defend our nation. Included are provisions that increase research and development for potentially game-changing technologies, and investments in modern capabilities which will make American intelligence gathering more effective and more efficient.“The men and women in uniform who protect this nation from our enemies deserve to have the best information and the best technologies available, both for our sake and theirs,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). “In this dangerous world, it’s vital that America retains our edge and that our military has the resources necessary to respond to terrorist threats, both here at home and abroad.”The bill requires a declassification review of the documents relating to the mission that killed Osama bin Laden in 2011, making any of the declassified documents available to the public for review. “The American people want to know what happened that day and we can do that in a responsible way that safeguards assets still protecting our nation,” stated Brady, also noting that the bill requires regular reports to be submitted to Congress about Syria’s chemical weapons program.The 2014 Intelligence Authorization Act also promotes STEM education at high schools and higher education institutions. “We must have a 21st century workforce has the skills necessary to ensure cybersecurity for our nation and this bill will help current American students learn about the latest technologies, readying them to meet cyber-threats head on,” Brady concluded.###
05.30.2014	Secretary Shinseki served our nation honorably and recognized we need a fresh start if we hope to quickly address the growing scandal at the agency and keep America's health care promises to our military veterans share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki:“This was necessary for the Veterans Administration to begin to restore its broken trust with our veterans and the American public. Secretary Shinseki served our nation honorably and recognized we need a fresh start if we hope to quickly address the growing scandal at the agency and keep America’s health care promises to our military veterans. Congress cannot do it alone – we need at least a smidgeon of leadership from President Obama to root out the abuses and create an efficient, responsive 21st Century veterans agency.”###
05.22.2014	President Obama is wrong in his push to hollow out America's military strength. This bill confirms our NATO commitment and strengthens our ability to fight terrorists and extremists who seek to harm our nation, continued Brady. share: f t Defense spending bill ‘gives Americans more defense for the dollar’ says BradyWashington, DC –Today the U.S. House of Representatives approved next year’s funding for America’s national defense. The $521 billion measure continues critical support for a strong military and robust national defense while shaving $30 billion in savings from the current budget.“The world continues to be a dangerous place, so letting down our defenses will only invite more threats and make our families less secure,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, whose brother serves in the U.S. Army. “This bill bolsters military readiness and state-of-the-art weaponry while also making sure our troops get the pay raise they earned. And until the compensation commissions’ comprehensive review on military benefits is completed and we have more extensive information to work with, it stops cuts to TRICARE and housing.”The 2014 National Defense Authorization Act achieves savings for taxpayers by eliminating wasteful spending through reforms to military purchasing and administrative services. It also addresses critical readiness issues harmed by sequestration and previous cuts which Congressman Brady successfully voted to reverse. The bill halts proposed changes to the National Guard in favor of an in depth review of military needs and adds necessary mental health funding to help lower military suicide rates.“President Obama is wrong in his push to hollow out America’s military strength. This bill confirms our NATO commitment and strengthens our ability to fight terrorists and extremists who seek to harm our nation,” continued Brady. “And, for those of us who rely upon religious faith, the bill protects First Amendment rights for military men and women by clearly reaffirming that military chaplains can close their prayers as befitting their beliefs. All in all, this bill gives Americans more defense for the dollar, without compromising troop safety or national security.”###
05.21.2014	To make sure these bad apples are held accountable and removed without delay, this law allows the VA Secretary to circumvent months of red tape and fix this unconscionable behavior by some workers who have jeopardized the lives of veterans who served our nation. share: f t Brady: Our Veterans Deserve So Much BetterWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives voted today on legislation introduced by Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) which will simplify the process of removing Veterans Affairs employees who fail to adequately perform their duties. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs will be able to by-pass the current cumbersome, multi-step process and would also be required to report to Congress the reason for the removal.“I know there are dedicated workers at the Veterans Administration because I see them caring for our local veterans. But there are some bad apples, too, who have been negligent and derelict in their duty to protect veterans,” said Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady, who co-sponsored the measure. “To make sure these bad apples are held accountable and removed without delay, this law allows the VA Secretary to circumvent months of red tape and fix this unconscionable behavior of some workers who have jeopardized the lives of veterans who served our nation.”###
05.20.2014	This legislation supports our critical port infrastructure, like the Port of Houston and Texas waterways, by ensuring that more of the dollars paid by port users into the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are invested right back into the maintenance and dredging of our waterways in the nation's top exporting region. share: f t Brady Applauds Passage of Water Infrastructure Jobs Bill‘Investing in port and waterway infrastructure is critical to Texas jobs and America’s global competitiveness”Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a bipartisan water resource bill which will create jobs by addressing our nation’s infrastructure issues. Passed for the first time without a single earmark included, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act will strengthen the economy by expanding trade and reinforcing America’s global competitiveness.“This legislation supports our critical port infrastructure, like the Port of Houston and Texas waterways, by ensuring that more of the dollars paid by port users into the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are invested right back into the maintenance and dredging of our waterways in the nation's top exporting region,” said Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “And it accomplishes it by cutting red tape and staying earmark free.""Investing in port and waterway infrastructure is critical to Texas jobs and America’s global competitiveness.”###
05.20.2014	In this day and age many Americans find it hard to fathom that sex trafficking – the equivalent of modern day slavery – still exists in regions throughout our country. The hard truth is that too many American children are being affected and as a father to two young boys, I can't even imagine the horrors these children are subjected to. share: f t U.S. House Passes Bills to Stop Sex TraffickingWashington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding several bills passed today by the U.S. House of Representatives, all aimed at stopping the practice of sex trafficking of minors in America:“In this day and age many Americans find it hard to fathom that sex trafficking – the equivalent of modern day slavery – still exists in regions throughout our country. The hard truth is that too many American children are being affected and as a father to two young boys, I can’t even imagine the horrors these children are subjected to. The steps we took today in the House will help to protect victims and stop those responsible for these atrocities, bringing them to justice. We’re moving in the right direction to right these wrongs, but there’s more to do in order to keep the most innocent and vulnerable in our communities safe.”###
05.14.2014	Every dollar lost to Medicare fraud is a dollar flagrantly stolen from America's elderly and disabled, said the Texas Republican. "With Medicare's trust fund on the path to insolvency, we must stop the bleeding. That means only paying verified claims. Until Medicare stops paying first and checking later, criminals will continue to drain the system at the expense of those who paid in." share: f t Health Committee Chair Suggests Change in Payment Protocol to Stop FraudstersWashington, DC – The Medicare Fraud Strike Force announced the arrest of 90 people, including doctors and nurses, suspected of fleecing taxpayers of $260 million through Medicare fraud. U.S. House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady applauded the mission’s success, while again encouraging the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid to do more to stop fraud from occurring in the first place.“Every dollar lost to Medicare fraud is a dollar flagrantly stolen from America’s elderly and disabled,” said the Texas Republican. “With Medicare’s trust fund on the path to insolvency, we must stop the bleeding. That means only paying verified claims. Until Medicare stops paying first and checking later, criminals will continue to drain the system at the expense of those who paid in.”Brady’s subcommittee held an April hearing to address Medicare fraud and improper payments. Expert witnesses identified vulnerabilities in the system and proposed solutions to stop improper payments to fraudsters. “Strategies and new technology can be used to stop this fraud,” concluded Brady. “It’s time to move forward with bipartisan legislation that protects our seniors, bolsters the Medicare Trust Fund and ensures appropriate use of limited taxpayer funds.”###
05.08.2014	Americans deserve answers. Those families who lost loved ones deserve answers. And those who lost their lives that day in service to our nation, deserve justice, stated U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). share: f t House Republicans Vote to Establish Select Committee to Investigate 911 AttackWashington, DC – On a nearly partisan vote, the U.S. House voted today to establish a Select Committee charged with investigating the events surrounding the 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi which killed four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens.“Americans deserve answers. Those families who lost loved ones deserve answers. And those who lost their lives that day in service to our nation, deserve justice,” stated U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). “The terrorists who are guilty of planning and carrying out these murders are still free and perhaps planning more attacks against our nation, but the families are still grieving and wondering when the President will hold true to his promise to bring these terrorists to justice.”The Committee of 12 members will conduct a full investigation into the Benghazi attack analyzing the policies and decisions that contributed to the attacks and what prohibited the ability to respond to the attacks. They will also look into how the White House administration’s policies relate to the security of the facilities in Benghazi and which officials were responsible for the executive branch’s response to the attacks. In addition, the progress in identifying and apprehending the terrorists responsible for the attack will be evaluated.“This shouldn’t be a partisan issue. Every member of Congress should be outraged that the White House deliberately withheld key documents from investigating committees and from the American people. Every member of Congress should want to know the truth, no matter which side of the aisle they sit. I challenge those who oppose this committee to look the victim’s families in the eyes and tell them that getting to the truth doesn’t matter,” concluded Brady.###
05.08.2014	Education should be about opening doors, not closing them. The Success and Opportunity through Quality Charter Schools Act is for the nearly million students across the country waiting for a chance to attend a quality charter school, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. "This bill puts our local educators in the driver's seat by consolidating federal programs and reducing barriers to charter school growth." share: f t ‘A more streamlined process will open charter schoolhouse doors wide,’ said BradyWashington, DC– The U.S. House today passed legislation to get Washington out of the way of charter schools by reducing barriers and streamlining existing federal education programs.“Education should be about opening doors, not closing them. The Success and Opportunity through Quality Charter Schools Act is for the nearly million students across the country waiting for a chance to attend a quality charter school,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “This bill puts our local educators in the driver’s seat by consolidating federal programs and reducing barriers to charter school growth.”The bill, which heads to the Senate, combines the Charter School Programs and Credit Enhancement for Charter School Initiatives, provides grants to support high-quality charter schools, and encourages charter schools and other public schools to share their best ideas so all students can benefit.“A more streamlined process will open charter schoolhouse doors wide,” added Brady. “School should change a child’s life for the better and Washington shouldn’t be in the way of that happening.”###
05.07.2014	How can a party that claims to protect civil rights choose to protect a government worker who violated the civil rights of Americans? No government should try to silence the voices of its citizens merely because they disagree with that government. That's un-American and a dangerous new power. share: f t ‘What happened to the Democrat outrage against IRS targeting of American citizens?’Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) voted today for a House resolution to hold former IRS official, Lois Lerner, in contempt of Congress. Joined by his fellow Republicans, the measure passed with only 6 Democrat members voting for it.The House bill determines that Lerner, the former Director of Exempt Organizations for the IRS who was recently referred for criminal prosecution by the House Ways & Means Committee, should be held in contempt of Congress. The action is based on her appearance at a congressional hearing where she waived her Fifth Amendment right when she gave an opening statement before the Oversight Committee in May of 2013, refused further directives to testify before Congress and ultimately failed to comply with a Congressional subpoena.“Unless the House takes this step, Lois Lerner will never be held accountable for violating the civil rights of Americans, and the American people may never learn the full truth behind the government targeting citizens based on their beliefs,” said Brady, who is helping lead the investigation into the IRS targeting as a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “If she has clean hands as she claims, there is no need to hide the truth. ”Brady also noted the lack of Democratic support for the resolution. President Obama and Democratic leaders in Congress initially declared they were outraged at the targeting by the IRS.“How can a party that claims to protect civil rights choose to protect a government worker who violated the civil rights of Americans? No government should try to silence the voices of its citizens merely because they disagree with that government. That’s un-American and a dangerous new power. ”###
05.07.2014	American companies are going to expand their R&D investments, the question is overseas or here in America? adds Brady. "We can't continue to allow foreign countries to offer superior incentives that syphon away our American innovation and jobs." share: f t ‘We can’t continue to allow foreign countries to offer superior incentives that siphon away our American innovation and jobs.”Washington, DC – The House voted 274 to 131 today to make permanent a key tax incentive that encourages U.S. companies to increase their investments in research and development of new product breakthroughs. The new permanent provision, which has been a temporary part of the tax code since 1981, will create 300,000 new U.S. jobs and raise workers’ wages by over $10 billion. Its enactment has been a top priority of the technology, bio-medicine, manufacturing and energy industries. “America used to lead the world in research incentives, but today we have fallen to 27th. China, Russia and other global competitors are quickly surpassing us in their share of the economy devoted to research. If we don’t permanently commit to encouraging new innovation in technology, manufacturing, energy and medical research in America, over time we will lose our place as the largest economy in the world,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. He and Democrat congressman John Larson of Connecticut lead The American Research and Competiveness (ARC) Act. The ARC Act simplifies and modernizes the R&D tax credit by increasing the alternative simplified credit rate from 14 percent to 20 percent, which will allow small, mid-size and large companies to more easily benefit. The Joint Tax Committee reported that making the tax credit permanent may lead to a 10 percent increase in research and development investments made by U.S. companies.“American companies are going to expand their R&D investments, the question is overseas or here in America?” adds Brady. “We can’t continue to allow foreign countries to offer superior incentives that siphon away our American innovation and jobs. Today, a bipartisan majority of my House colleagues voted to keep America competitive in the global market. I encourage my friends in the Senate to join us and send this important legislation to the President’s desk.”###
05.05.2014	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is honored to have nine area students accept appointments to the nation's distinguished military service academies. share: f t “These young people are determined to make a difference for their nation", says BradyCONROE – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is honored to have nine area students accept appointments to the nation's distinguished military service academies.“Being selected to our military service academies is both a remarkable achievement and an unique opportunity to help lead our nation in the future. I'm pleased to announce that nine young men and women from the 8th Congressional District will be attending U.S. military service academies this fall,, said Brady. “Like those before them who have sought a first-rate education and the chance to develop their leadership skills, these young people are talented, grounded and are determined to make a difference for their nation." WEST POINT. Two upcoming Conroe High School graduates, Tala Raus and Derrick Wagoner, will be attending the United States Military Academy at West Point. Also attending is Uriel Shao of The Woodlands College Park High School.NAVAL ACADEMY. Montgomery High School’s Adrienne Easter will be heading to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, as will Andrew Gomez of The Woodlands College Park. AIR FORCE ACADEMY. Northeast Christian Academy’s Jeremy Blunt, Oak Ridge High School’s Grant Parks, Spring High School’s Paul Love II and The Woodlands High School’s Casey Bell will be attending the Air Force Academy in Colorado. Full list of students, their high schools and academy appointmentsMontgomery CountyGrant Parks, Oak Ridge High School, Air ForceCasey Bell, The Woodlands High School, Air ForceAndrew Gomez, The Woodlands College Park High School, NavalUriel Shao, The Woodlands College Park High School, West PointDerrick Wagoner, Conroe High School, West PointTala Raus, Conroe High School, West PointHarris CountyJeremy Blunt, Northeast Christian Academy (Kingwood), Air ForcePaul Love II, Spring High School, Air Force
05.05.2014	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is honored to have nine area students accept appointments to the nation's distinguished military service academies. share: f t “These young people are determined to make a difference for their nation", says BradyCONROE – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is honored to have nine area students accept appointments to the nation's distinguished military service academies.“Being selected to our military service academies is both a remarkable achievement and an unique opportunity to help lead our nation in the future. I'm pleased to announce that nine young men and women from the 8th Congressional District will be attending U.S. military service academies this fall,, said Brady. “Like those before them who have sought a first-rate education and the chance to develop their leadership skills, these young people are talented, grounded and are determined to make a difference for their nation." WEST POINT. Two upcoming Conroe High School graduates, Tala Raus and Derrick Wagoner, will be attending the United States Military Academy at West Point. Also attending is Uriel Shao of The Woodlands College Park High School.NAVAL ACADEMY. Montgomery High School’s Adrienne Easter will be heading to the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, as will Andrew Gomez of The Woodlands College Park. AIR FORCE ACADEMY. Northeast Christian Academy’s Jeremy Blunt, Oak Ridge High School’s Grant Parks, Spring High School’s Paul Love II and The Woodlands High School’s Casey Bell will be attending the Air Force Academy in Colorado. Full list of students, their high schools and academy appointmentsMontgomery CountyGrant Parks, Oak Ridge High School, Air ForceCasey Bell, The Woodlands High School, Air ForceAndrew Gomez, The Woodlands College Park High School, NavalUriel Shao, The Woodlands College Park High School, West PointDerrick Wagoner, Conroe High School, West PointTala Raus, Conroe High School, West PointHarris CountyJeremy Blunt, Northeast Christian Academy (Kingwood), Air ForcePaul Love II, Spring High School, Air Force
04.30.2014	It is completely unacceptable that so many veterans are suffering while they wait to receive their benefits due to a back-logged VA system, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), whose brother serves as a sergeant major in the U.S. Army. "They deserve the quality health care, job training and other programs that they were guaranteed. This backlog must end." share: f t ‘Congress will keep their promises to those who serve our nation’Washington, DC – This evening, the U.S. House passed an appropriations bill that provides increased funding for veterans programs and ensures that active-duty military have the support and infrastructure they need.“It is completely unacceptable that so many veterans are suffering while they wait to receive their benefits due to a back-logged VA system,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), whose brother serves as a sergeant major in the U.S. Army. “They deserve the quality health care, job training and other programs that they were guaranteed. This backlog must end.”The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill ensures over $158 billion in funding for veterans programs, such as veterans medical services that include mental health care and suicide prevention. It also provides increased funding for the digital scanning of health records and requires the VA and DOD to accurately and quickly share medical data with the private sector so that veterans receive the care they need on a timely basis. The quality of life for active-duty military is also enhanced by this legislation as it provides funds needed for the construction of military housing, medical and education facilities.“Our world remains a dangerous place and I am so grateful for the Americans who are willing to put their lives on the line in order to ensure my freedom,” Brady continued. “ These men and women who took an oath to serve and defend our nation deserve our respect, and the benefits and support that they’ve been promised. Congress will keep those promises. Period.”###
04.29.2014	When our Texas workers take a post overseas – in energy, for example - it's difficult enough already to ensure they and their families have quality health care. President Obama's Affordable Care Act was poorly written and would have jeopardized the quality of care for these workers and unnecessarily forced U.S. jobs overseas, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, chairman of the Health Subcommittee of Ways & Means. share: f t Repeals ACA language; helps American workers and companies remain competitiveWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives approved bipartisan legislation which repeals onerous language in the Affordable Care Act which is forcing U.S. jobs overseas and making it prohibitively expensive for U.S. companies to provide quality health care for workers posted overseas.The Expatriate Health Coverage Clarification Act also protects over 1,000 American jobs in the insurance industry. By allowing U.S. companies to continue to offer this coverage from the U.S., this keeps the insurance companies from moving their operations overseas in order to service their clients. “When our Texas workers take a post overseas – in energy, for example - it’s difficult enough already to ensure they and their families have quality health care. President Obama’s Affordable Care Act was poorly written and would have jeopardized the quality of care for these workers and unnecessarily forced U.S. jobs overseas,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, chairman of the Health Subcommittee of Ways & Means.“As complex as the ACA is for our own country, trying to make it work in another country is an even bigger challenge. This bill will allow our Texas workers to maintain affordable health coverage that’s right for them, their families and their companies. It saves jobs here at home and helps American companies remain globally competitive.’’ ###
04.29.2014	I'm tired of losing ground to American's global competitors, said Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing committee. "While China's percentage of global research and development continues to increase exponentially, the U.S.'s share continues to decline. In fact, experts predict that China could surpass us by 2022. That's unacceptable." share: f t Making permanent the R&D tax credit keeps American jobs and innovation at homeWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee voted to pass several tax reform bills, including legislation which would make the Research and Development tax credit a permanent part of the U.S. Tax Code for the first time. Introduced by Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and John Larson (D-CT) , this legislation is the culmination of years of work first overseen by Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp and then taken up by Brady.“I’m tired of losing ground to America’s global competitors,” said Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing committee. “While China’s percentage of global research and development continues to increase exponentially, the U.S.’s share continues to decline. In fact, experts predict that China could surpass us by 2022. That’s unacceptable.”Brady’s bill will increase the simplified credit rate from 14 percent to 20 percent, offering U.S. companies a strong incentive to increase R&D spending, keeping American jobs and innovation in the country.“Research and development is key to innovation and manufacturers and we can make sure the next wave of technology and manufacturing happens in the United States by providing the certainty our innovators need to make long-term R&D investments. This pro-growth tax reform is a step towards revitalizing our economy and spurring job creation,” concluded Brady. ###
04.18.2014	This is politics, pure and simple. The President continues to put partisanship and special interest groups ahead of job-seeking Americans. He's playing politics, while families in my district are struggling just to pay the bills. share: f t ‘The President plays politics while Americans struggle to pay the bills.’Washington, DC – Texas Congressman, Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior Republican member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement upon the announcement that the White House will delay approving the Keystone XL Pipeline until after the mid-term election:“This is politics, pure and simple. The President continues to put partisanship and special interest groups ahead of job-seeking Americans. He’s playing politics, while families in my district are struggling just to pay the bills. The Keystone XL Pipeline is an environmentally sound project, and he knows it. It will provide thousands of jobs and he knows that, too. As long as he continues to delay the building of this pipeline, the President is standing directly between American workers and good-paying jobs, and he has no legitimate reason to do this.”###
04.15.2014	Most American taxpayers don't want to spend hours upon hours organizing forms and receipts just to pay their taxes. They'd rather spend that time playing ball with their kids or starting a small business. share: f t Time for America to jettison our too costly, too complex and too unfair tax codeConroe, TX– April 15is both a boom day for the U.S. Treasury and the single most hated day of the year for American families.Why? Let’s look at a few key reasons. Americans will spend over 6 billion hours of their time on tax compliance this year. That’s akin to over 3 million full time employees working year round, according to the IRS National Taxpayer Advocate.“Why should filing taxes take the same number of hours as all the workers at Wal-Mart, McDonalds and Target will work this year combined?” asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “That’s crazy. Most American taxpayers don’t want to spend hours upon hours organizing forms and receipts just to pay their taxes. They’d rather spend that time playing ball with their kids or starting a small business.”The Ways & Means Committee has been working to shrink America’s bloated tax code from 4 million words down something every taxpayer can understand. “Right now there are over 206 pages of instructions for the 1040 form, when the entire tax code shouldn’t be that long,” added Brady. “When over 90 percent of returns are done by professionals or tax software, that should be a wake-up call that our tax code is far too complex.”After you finish your taxes, come to www.kevinbrady.house.gov/taxreform and share your ideas on how to make this tax code simpler and fairer for all Americans. “No one wants to work until after Easter just to satisfy their tax burden,” concluded Brady. “There is a better way through real tax reform.###
04.11.2014	America is the world's leading innovator, developing life-saving technologies, state-of-the-art computer systems, and breakthrough manufacturing products, said the Texas Republican, "but we are losing ground to competitors around the world." share: f t Let’s modernize and make permanent the R&D tax creditWashington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, introduced this week the American Research Competitiveness Act of 2014, which would simplify and strengthen the U.S. R&D tax credit.“America is the world’s leading innovator, developing life-saving technologies, state-of-the-art computer systems, and breakthrough manufacturing products,” said the Texas Republican, “but we are losing ground to competitors around the world.” Further noting that the U.S. share of global research and development has fallen from 39 percent in 1999 to 31 percent in 2014, but that China’s increased fourfold during the same time period, Brady said, “We are in danger of China’s R&D spending surpassing the United States’ by 2022. That’s just not acceptable.”Under Brady’s legislation, the R&D tax credit would apply equally to all companies that perform research and development in the United States. It is strengthened and modernized by increasing the alternative simplified credit rate to 20 percent from 14 percent, allowing companies to increase their current R&D spending, while attracting new R&D spending, which will help create new jobs.“Other countries are moving ahead of us because they are offering stronger incentives to attract research and development and the good-paying jobs that go along with it. It is time we get back on the playing field by modernizing the American R&D tax credit and keeping American jobs and innovation here at home,” Brady concluded.###
04.10.2014	This budget takes the focus off of Washington and puts it back on the American people, just where it ought to be. This is their government, their tax dollars and we are their representatives, and the priorities in any budget we pass should reflect those truths. share: f t Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed a budget resolution for 2015 that balances in ten years while cutting spending by $5.1 trillion over the same time period. It prioritizes national security, cutting waste in Washington, providing opportunity for all Americans and reforming entitlement spending. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, voted in favor of the plan.“The world remains a very dangerous place and the lack of leadership from the White House on foreign policy has made America’s military men and women too vulnerable,” said the Texas Republican. “We cannot continue to hollow out our military and today, Congress rejected the President’s efforts to do that by voting for a responsible budget that provides the training, support and compensation that our troops need and deserve. This budget also makes sure that we keep our promises to our veterans, both now, and in the future.“This budget takes the focus off of Washington and puts it back on the American people, just where it ought to be. This is their government, their tax dollars and we are their representatives, and the priorities in any budget we pass should reflect those truths.”###
04.10.2014	Americans have had it with Washington's fiscal irresponsibility and I don't blame them. While families across the nation continue to tighten their belts due to rising costs and shrinking paychecks, Washington continues to spend more than it takes it, added Brady. "It's not just that it's not sustainable. It's morally wrong to leave this enormous debt on children that haven't even been born yet." share: f t ‘We need guardrails to ensure a balanced budget. This one delivers,’ says Joint Economic Committee ChairmanWashington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, voted in support of the Republican Study Committee’s (RSC) budget for fiscal year 2015. With the help of the RSC’s Budget & Spending Task Force on which Brady sits, the committee put forth a budget that balances in four years without raising taxes. By incorporating language from Brady’s Maximizing American Prosperity (MAP) Act, the budget ensures that federal spending is capped as a percentage of the economy, forces Congress to prioritize spending, and contains a sunset provision which terminates all federal agencies and programs over a 12 year cycle unless reauthorized by Congress.“There’s a lot in this budget worth supporting,” said Brady. “It repeals the Affordable Care Act and replaces it with patient-centered health care reform, strengthens Medicare and Social Security, reduces federal spending and ends duplicative or harmful federal programs.” The RSC budget also includes pro-growth tax reform, entitlement spending reform and preserves the ban on earmarks Congressman Brady fought for.Brady noted that the RSC Budget also includes his Centennial Monetary Commission Act, which will comprehensively analyze the history of the Federal Reserve’s role in America’s economy.“Americans have had it with Washington’s fiscal irresponsibility and I don’t blame them. While families across the nation continue to tighten their belts due to rising costs and shrinking paychecks, Washington continues to spend more than it takes it,” added Brady. “It’s not just that it’s not sustainable. It’s morally wrong to leave this enormous debt on children that haven’t even been born yet.”###
04.09.2014	These are serious charges. And while many of my constituents believe the Justice Department and Attorney General Eric Holder will turn a blind eye to the corruption at the Internal Revenue Service, I call on the Justice Department to prosecute this case and make it abundantly clear that in America we will not tolerate the IRS abusing its power to silence the voices of those who disagree with their government. share: f t Brady: The evidence is clear and compelling. But will Justice Department ignore the abuse of power?Washington, DC – Today the House Ways and Means Committee sent a letter* to the Department of Justice outlining evidence the investigation has uncovered which recommends former IRS official Lois Lerner be criminally prosecuted for violating taxpayers’ rights, misleading investigators and disclosing private taxpayer information.“At this point in the ongoing investigation, the evidence is clear and compelling that Lois Lerner, at the bidding of political special interest groups, abused her powerful position at the IRS to violate the civil rights of taxpayers, mislead Treasury investigators and risked disclosing the private information of taxpayers that she relentlessly targeted for their political beliefs,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee which is conducting the investigation into claims the IRS targeted conservative groups. “These are serious charges. And while many of my constituents believe the Justice Department and Attorney General Eric Holder will turn a blind eye to the corruption at the Internal Revenue Service, I call on the Justice Department to prosecute this case and make it abundantly clear that in America we will not tolerate the IRS abusing its power to silence the voices of those who disagree with their government.”“Mr. Holder, will the Justice Department defend the civil rights of all Americans, or just those it favors?” ###*Ways and Means Press Release and Letter to DOJ
04.04.2014	That it took six long years for America's economy to simply return to break even for Main Street jobs is compelling proof of President Obama's disappointing economic leadership, said Brady. "This is the weakest recovery in half a century, and the pain is felt most by those desperately trying to find a job or struggling with a paycheck that's barely changed in six years," said Brady. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseContact: Al Felzenberg: JEC Office Desk (202-226-2490)April 4, 2014Work Cellular: (202-695-5797) MARCH MILESTONE:Six Years After Recession Began, All Private-Sector Jobs Lost Now Regained“That it took six long years for America's economy to simply return to break even for Main Street jobs is compelling proof of President Obama's disappointing economic leadership," said BradyWashington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report showing that 192,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 192,000 private payroll jobs were added in March, while the unemployment rate remained at 6.7%.With the March jobs numbers, the U.S. economy has officially regained all of the 8,790,000 private-sector jobs lost since the recession began in December 2007."That it took six long years for America's economy to simply return to break even for Main Street jobs is compelling proof of President Obama's disappointing economic leadership", said Brady. "This is the weakest recovery in half a century, and the pain is felt most by those desperately trying to find a job or struggling with a paycheck that's barely changed in six years," said Brady."Do we have to settle for a second-rate economy? Is the President’s decision to stay the course the right decision for our struggling economy? The answer to both is no." ###
04.03.2014	Since when does health care reform mean you get your hours cut and paycheck shrunk? The 30-hour mandate hurts mainly women, young people and those without college degrees, said Texas Republican Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. share: f t ‘Washington shouldn’t decide how many hours Americans work’Washington, DC – Joined by 18 Democratic legislators, House Republicans today passed a jobs bill which will restore the traditional 40 hour full-time work week that is the cornerstone of multiple employment laws. President Obama’s controversial Affordable Care Act redefined a full time work week as being 30 hours, resulting in workers experiencing lower wages due to having their hours reduced to 29 or less a week.The Save American Workers Act repeals the mandate and restores the 40 hour work week schedule that has long defined a full time employee.“Since when does health care reform mean you get your hours cut and paycheck shrunk? The 30-hour mandate hurts mainly women, young people and those without college degrees,” said Texas Republican Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. “Our families are struggling enough to make ends meet in this disappointing economy. The president’s new health care law shouldn’t make it harder.”“This bill ensures that Washington doesn’t force local businesses to cut your hours. I strongly support this jobs bill.”###
04.01.2014	Dave Camp is a friend, a mentor and a fearless champion of tax reform as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement regarding Chairman Dave Camp’s decision to not run for reelection:“Dave Camp is a friend, a mentor and a fearless champion of tax reform as Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee. His focus has always been making sure that government works for the American people, whether the issue is health care, trade or tax reform. His relentless battle against the IRS’s abuse of taxpayers has shown his commitment to not allowing the government to silence those who would redress their grievances. His tireless work ethic set the example for all to follow. I know that his wife, Nancy, and their three children will be glad to have more of Dave’s time, but he will be sorely missed here in Washington. I wish him all the best.”###
03.31.2014	Today, Texas and I have lost a good friend. Ray Hutchison put Texas first and for all the right reasons. Our hearts and prayers are with our dear friend Kay and their family. Dallas, and in many ways our state, have been shaped by Ray Hutchison's hard work. He and Kay have been wonderful parents to their children, Houston Taylor and Kathryn Bailey Hutchison. Our hearts also go out to Ray's daughters, Julie and Brenda. Texas was blessed by Ray Hutchison's public service and I was blessed to call him friend. share: f t Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement on the passing of Ray Hutchison:“Today, Texas and I have lost a good friend. Ray Hutchison put Texas first and for all the right reasons. Our hearts and prayers are with our dear friend Kay and their family. Dallas, and in many ways our state, have been shaped by Ray Hutchison’s hard work. He and Kay have been wonderful parents to their children, Houston Taylor and Kathryn Bailey Hutchison. Our hearts also go out to Ray’s daughters, Julie and Brenda. Texas was blessed by Ray Hutchison’s public service and I was blessed to call him friend.”###
03.26.2014	In order to be job ready for industries where drug testing is the norm, potential employees need to be able to pass a drug test, noted Brady. "Unemployment insurance is for those who are actively looking for work and are job ready. If a potential employee cannot pass a drug test, they are not job ready." share: f t ‘Any President should be committed to ensuring Americans are job ready.’Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today introduced the Ready to Work Act, a two-page bill designed to force the Department of Labor to carry out a key provision of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act. Signed over two years ago by President Obama, this law allows states to drug test unemployment insurance recipients seeking jobs that regularly require drug testing.Unfortunately, states are still waiting for the Labor Department to release a simple list of jobs that regularly drug test. “How hard can that be?” asked Brady. “If this President wants to prove he is committed to making sure Americans are job ready, he should insist that this Secretary of Labor issue this list,” said Brady. “All we get are empty assurances that regulations will be released soon. Meanwhile, Texas, Mississippi and Kansas have passed laws that will help make sure people are ready to work, but those laws can’t be implemented until Labor acts.”The Ready to Work Act will require an interim final rule within 6 months, followed by final rules within the year. If these deadlines are not met, states will be able to move forward without Washington’s input.“In order to be job ready for industries where drug testing is the norm, potential employees need to be able to pass a drug test,” noted Brady. “Unemployment insurance is for those who are actively looking for work and are job ready. If a potential employee cannot pass a drug test, they are not job ready.”###
03.26.2014	Well, I'm glad they've finally caught up with what Republicans have been saying all along. The Affordable Care Act is a deeply flawed law that was passed on false promises that have been broken over and over, continues Brady. "American families were promised savings of $2,500 a year, but instead their premiums and deductibles are skyrocketing. They were promised by the president that they could keep their doctor, but he recently admitted that for the "average person", that wasn't true either. And millions of Americans discovered last year that his oft-repeated promise that you can keep the plan you like was another broken promise." share: f t Washington, DC – Chairman of the House Ways and Means Health subcommittee, Kevin Brady (R-TX), who has long stated that when it comes to the Affordable Care Act, the ‘flaw is the law’, is now being echoed by Democratic strategists and incumbent Democrat politicians who voted for the bill.“I can’t help but think of the time when the President said that his law was “working fine”, or when his CMS Director Maryilyn Tavenner assured me that the system undergirding the Affordable Care Act “is working”,” says Brady. “But now, his own party is admitting that the law they passed without any Republican votes was ‘imperfect from day one’, as Virginia Democratic Senator Mark Warner recently said on Fox News.” Brady also notes that Democratic pollster and strategist firm Lake Research Partners is encouraging embattled Democrats to not defend the law and admit that it “was flawed from the beginning.”“Well, I’m glad they’ve finally caught up with what Republicans have been saying all along. The Affordable Care Act is a deeply flawed law that was passed on false promises that have been broken over and over,” continues Brady. “American families were promised savings of $2,500 a year, but instead their premiums and deductibles are skyrocketing. They were promised by the president that they could keep their doctor, but he recently admitted that for the “average person”, that wasn’t true either. And millions of Americans discovered last year that his oft-repeated promise that you can keep the plan you like was another broken promise.”“HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius also assured me that there would be no delays for the March 31st signup deadline, and yet they announced last night that they are extending the deadline till mid-April. This is the 36th delay. After dozens of White House delays and unilateral changes, the Affordable Care Act continues to do more harm than good for the American people. When a law is having the opposite affect it was intended to have, it’s time to admit it’s a bad law that needs to be repealed,” concludes Brady.###
03.25.2014	The President is using his law to punish companies who are trying to do the right thing by paying their workers high wages and generous benefits, including providing comprehensive health care. All they want is to be free to follow their conscience by not participating in the purchase of drugs and devices that terminate the life of an unborn child. share: f t Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood vs. Sebelius legal challenge being heard by the Supreme Court of the United States today:“The President’s health care law forces Americans to choose between submitting to unnecessary federal mandates or violating the tenants of their religious faith. Our Constitution demands the freedom for every American to freely practice their religion; in fact, that right is named before all others. Thomas Jefferson said, “No provision in our constitution ought to be dearer to man than that which protects the right of conscience against the enterprises of civil authority.” He knew that our diverse society’s religious beliefs could not be dictated by a central government, and that’s as true today as it was over 200 years ago.“The President is using his law to punish companies who are trying to do the right thing by paying their workers high wages and generous benefits, including providing comprehensive health care. All they want is to be free to follow their conscience by not participating in the purchase of drugs and devices that terminate the life of an unborn child. The President has given exemptions for political reasons, but is choosing to lay job-killing fines on those that believe in protecting the sanctity of life. In America, being a job creator should not mean you can no longer live and work according to your beliefs. This is not equal treatment under the law and violates the civil rights of these American families.”###
03.21.2014	Why keep hurting American families and businesses? Until this unworkable law can be repealed and replaced with a solution that centers on our patients rather than on Washington, the President needs to delay it for everyone - not just his special interests groups. That's only fair share: f t Washington – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the leader of the House Ways & Means Health Subcommittee issued the following statement as Sunday’s 4th Anniversary of the Affordable Care Act approaches:“The President's health care law is hurting more Americans than it is helping.Americans were promised more affordable health care, but it became more expensive for many. They were promised more access to health care, but many have been forced out of their plans and into more expensive ones where they can't see their doctors or get their medicines. Some of America's top-flight cancer centers like M.D. Anderson in the Texas Medical Center are off-limits to many plans.Seniors are having a difficult time finding local doctors who can treat them, and are facing billions of dollars of cuts to the Medicare program.And America's economy has suffered as businesses along Main Street have been forced to cut hours, cut jobs and limit new hiring because of the mandates within the Affordable Care Act.Why keep hurting American families and businesses? Until this unworkable law can be repealed and replaced with a solution that centers on our patients rather than on Washington, the President needs to delay it for everyone - not just his special interests groups.That's only fair." ###
03.20.2014	Tax Day is often a source of frustration for taxpayers, so anything that can make the process less painful is appreciated, says Brady. "I encourage taxpayers who qualify to utilize this free resource." share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of House Ways and Means committee, encourages taxpayers in the 8th Congressional District of Texas to use the free tax preparation services available through the Free File program. Taxpayers with a 2013 Adjusted Gross Income of $58,000 or less can prepare, complete and e-file their federal tax returns at no cost at www.IRS.gov/freefile.Free File is made possible through a partnership between the IRS and the Free File Alliance, a coalition of industry-leading tax software companies. Since its inception in 2003, the program has offered 70 percent of taxpayers free access to leading commercial tax preparation software from Free File Alliance member companies. Free File has already saved taxpayers an estimated $1.2 billion in filing costs.“Tax Day is often a source of frustration for taxpayers, so anything that can make the process less painful is appreciated,” says Brady. “I encourage taxpayers who qualify to utilize this free resource.”IRS Free File is available at www.IRS.gov/freefile, which provides a list of Free File Alliance member companies and their free tax software offerings. Users may either choose the company that fits their needs or utilize the “Help me Find Free File Software” tool. After selecting a company, users will be transferred to the company's website to prepare, complete and electronically file their federal income tax returns. The service is also available in Spanish.Free File also offers basic federal e-filing services with no income limitations. This basic e-filing service, called Free File Fillable Forms, allows taxpayers who are familiar with tax law and need no preparation assistance to complete and file their federal income tax electronically. It is also available at www.IRS.gov/freefile.Free File Alliance member companies have continually worked with the IRS to strengthen the Free File program, and taxpayers have consistently reported that it is user-friendly and efficient. Responding to a 2009 IRS survey, 96 percent of users said they found Free File easy to use, while 98 percent said they would recommend the program to others.About the Free File AllianceThe Free File Alliance, a coalition of 14 industry-leading tax software companies, has partnered with the IRS since 2003 to help low and middle-income Americans prepare, complete and e-file their federal tax returns online. The Free File Alliance is committed to giving 70 percent of Americans free access to the industry’s top online tax preparation software. About 40 million returns have been filed through Free File since its inception. For more information, visit www.freefilealliance.org. ###
03.14.2014	Our seniors need to see a doctor they know and who knows them. Unfortunately the current system chases doctors out of Medicare and out of private practice, says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, who played an instrumental role in crafting the bi-partisan bill as chairman of the Health Subcommittee for Ways & Means. share: f t House Passes Legislation; Brady says “Seniors Deserve to See a Doctor They Know”Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation which creates a fairer way to reimburse local doctors when they treat Medicare patients. Developed with the assistance of American doctors, the bipartisan solution ends the yearly threat of massive cuts to local doctors, provides stability and rewards doctors for high quality care, and begins to streamline the red tape that local physicians face. “Our seniors need to see a doctor they know and who knows them. Unfortunately the current system chases doctors out of Medicare and out of private practice,” says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, who played an instrumental role in crafting the bi-partisan bill as chairman of the Health Subcommittee for Ways & Means. “This crisis is growing worse. Fewer than half of Texas family physicians accept new Medicare patients.”Brady added “H.R. 4015 is a solid foundation from which to build an even better Medicare system. And it has overwhelming support from physicians. I’m pleased the House has acted but we have more work to do. I’m optimistic we can finish the job.”###
03.13.2014	Expecting the President of the United States to enforce the laws of the land shouldn't be a far-fetched idea –it's his core constitutional responsibility. Yet President Obama has routinely and single-handedly altered or ignored his own Affordable Care Act. share: f t ‘Expecting the President to enforce the laws of the land shouldn’t be a far-fetched idea’Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed two bills this week that require the President of the United States to uphold his constitutional duty to faithfully execute U.S. law and to give Congress standing in court should the President or any other federal officer fail to do so. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) supported both measures.“Expecting the President of the United States to enforce the laws of the land shouldn’t be a far-fetched idea —it’s his core constitutional responsibility. Yet President Obama has routinely and single-handedly altered or ignored his own Affordable Care Act,” said Brady, chairman of the health panel of the Ways and Means Committee. “He has even refused to enforce some of our immigration laws, which is equally troubling. If the President refuses to enforce duly passed laws, then Congress should be able to hold him accountable. These laws will finally give us the ability to do so.”The Faithful Execution of the Law Act, sponsored by Ron DeSantis (R-FL), will require the Attorney General to report to Congress when any federal officer fails to enforce the law and their reason for not doing so. The ENFORCE the Law Act, sponsored by Trey Gowdy (R-SC), gives the U.S. Senate or House the ability to bring civil action in a Federal district court against the President or other federal officers for failing to enforce federal law, fast-tracking the process and sending appeals directly to the Supreme Court.“Texans are sick and tired of President Obama and Attorney General Holder habitually ignoring the laws they don’t like. And House Republicans are wary of passing any immigration legislation, knowing the White House administration will only enforce the parts that give them a political boost,” concluded Brady.###
03.13.2014	And the real irony is that the new requirements target Americans who lost their insurance due to the Affordable Care Act and now can't afford to buy a new plan. This means that the President has recognized that his law is causing the hardship that necessitates people to be exempted from his law. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Ways and Means Health subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the White House’s release of new “hardship exemptions” for the requirement that individuals buy government approved health care or pay a tax that's contained in the Affordable Care Act:“The White House has delayed parts of the Affordable Care Act over 30 times since it was signed into law, including vital parts of the law such as the business mandate. And now, they have essentially, and once again, unilaterally, delayed the requirement that individuals buy government approved health care or pay a tax by expanding the requirements needed to claim a hardship exemption. And the real irony is that the new requirements target Americans who lost their insurance due to the Affordable Care Act and now can’t afford to buy a new plan. This means that the President has recognized that his law is causing the hardship that necessitates people to be exempted from his law. How anyone can continue to defend this law and say that it is working is baffling. So my question is, what exactly is left to delay? It’s time to permanently delay the entire law by repealing it and then work for real patient-centered, cost-cutting health care reform that makes health care affordable and accessible for more Americans.”###
03.07.2014	Every additional job is important, but the bigger picture is still awfully disappointing. A smaller percentage of adult Americans are working today than when the recession ended more than four years ago. That just isn't an acceptable recovery. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseContact: Al Felzenberg: JEC Office Desk (202-226-2490)March 7, 2014Work Cellular: (202-695-5797) “A smaller percentage of Americans working than when the recession ended four years ago isn't an acceptable recovery,” Brady saysWashington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report showing that 175,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 162,000 private payroll jobs were added in February, while the unemployment rate rose to 6.7%:“Every additional job is important, but the bigger picture is still awfully disappointing. A smaller percentage of adult Americans are working today than when the recession ended more than four years ago. That just isn't an acceptable recovery." “This President keeps hitting the brakes as our economy struggles to take off. A failed healthcare law, the failed stimulus and crushing regulatory policies are smothering job creation. It’s time for the President to start cooperating with Congress to put more Americans back to work instead of proposing more spending, taxes, and regulations.”The employment-to-population ratio stood at 59.4% when the recession ended in June 2009 and at 60.6% in January 2009 when the President took office. According to BLS, the employment-to-population ratio was 58.8% in February.###
03.05.2014	Lois Lerner stated under oath last May before Congress that she was innocent of any wrong-doing and refused to testify; but, if she did nothing wrong, why did she want immunity? share: f t Brady, ‘If Lerner did nothing wrong, why did she want immunity?’Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, which has aggressively investigated the IRS targeting of conservative organizations, condemned former IRS employee Lois Lerner for her refusal to answer questions today before the House Oversight Committee, chaired by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA):“Lois Lerner stated under oath last May before Congress that she was innocent of any wrong-doing and refused to testify; but, if she did nothing wrong, why did she want immunity? Chairman Issa asked reasonable questions today about Ms. Lerner’s emails regarding this issue, yet she refuses to answer. What is she hiding from the American people? Taxpayers have the right to know what led to the IRS targeting American citizens for their political beliefs and what role any federal employee played in this. I support Chairman Issa’s continued investigation into this matter and assure the American people that the Ways and Means Committee I sit on will also continue to investigate this issue until the truth is revealed and those responsible are held accountable.”###
03.05.2014	Noting another announcement from the White House that they were once again delaying the Affordable Care Act's business mandate, Brady says, "But what does the President offer big business? Relief from the onerous requirements of his bill. Where's the relief for American families and workers? How is this fair? It's not, and that's why I support this legislation. No American should have to pay a penalty tax because ObamaCare is too expensive or difficult to purchase, or if they're unwilling to submit their information to an unsecured website." share: f t Health Chair, ‘No American should have to pay a penalty because ObamaCare fell short of its promises’Washington, DC – Today House Republicans voted to pass the SIMPLE Fairness Act which suspends for the rest of the year the tax penalty on Americans who don’t buy government-approved health care under President Obama’s Affordable Care Act. Twenty-seven Democrats broke with the White House to join Republicans for the 50th vote to repeal or alter a section of the Affordable Care Act.The chairman of the House Ways and Means Health subcommittee, Kevin Brady (R-TX), spoke in favor of the legislation.*“President Obama made some big promises when he sold his health care law to the American people,” says Brady. “He promised reduced premiums and that Americans could keep the plan they have and like. He has not delivered on any of these promises. In fact, it is his own law that is causing families across the nation to lose their plans and pay skyrocketing premiums.”Noting another announcement from the White House that they were once again delaying the Affordable Care Act’s business mandate, Brady says, “But what does the President offer big business? Relief from the onerous requirements of his bill. Where’s the relief for American families and workers? How is this fair? It’s not, and that’s why I support this legislation. No American should have to pay a penalty tax because ObamaCare is too expensive or difficult to purchase, or if they’re unwilling to submit their information to an unsecured website.”###*Video: No American should have to pay a penalty because ObamaCare fell short of its promises - http://youtu.be/sgnobDQXqUU
03.04.2014	Once again President Obama has failed to submit his budget on time and once again he has failed to submit a serious proposal to put our nation's finances in order. Instead, the President has sent Congress a political document built on the same liberal proposals that are holding the economy back. In short, it's a bigger government wish list – more spending, more taxes, more government. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseContact: Al Felzenberg: JEC Office Desk (202-226-2490)March 4, 2014Work Cellular: (202-695-5797) Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, responded to today’s release of the President’s Fiscal Year 2015 Budget:“Once again President Obama has failed to submit his budget on time and once again he has failed to submit a serious proposal to put our nation’s finances in order. Instead, the President has sent Congress a political document built on the same liberal proposals that are holding the economy back. In short, it’s a bigger government wish list – more spending, more taxes, more government.”“Moreover, the Administration has gone out of its way to make analysis of their budget more difficult by failing to provide their data in spreadsheets. This begs the question—what is the Administration hiding?”“We need to restore economic opportunity for all Americans by relying on the principles that made America the strongest, most prosperous nation on earth – individual liberty, limited government and a strong national defense. Not surprisingly, this budget points America in the wrong direction towards less freedom, less opportunity, and more power in the hands of Washington.”###
02.27.2014	Simply put, my amendment directs regulators to tell us your objective, tell us how you're going to measure it and then tell us you actually did what you promised'," concluded Brady. "Let's stop keeping the American public and local business in the dark." share: f t Amendment Forces Federal Agencies to Disclose & Measure Goals of Proposed New RegulationsWashington, DC– The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation to rein in Washington red tape, requiring federal agencies to be more open to the American people about its regulation plans, and closing loopholes that allow agencies to avoid analyzing the economic damage of proposed regulations.The effort includes an amendment by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, that forces federal agencies to disclose early to the public the goals of proposed new regulations and how they will measure their success in reaching them.“Local businesses are suffocating in red tape and it’s hurting their job hiring. Citizens deserve to know – before red tape is imposed – just what Washington is trying to achieve with new regulations and how they’ll measure them. Everyone else is held accountable for their actions, why not Washington agencies?” asked Brady.Brady notes that out of 3,708 new federal rules issued in 2012, only 14 had a full analysis done of their impact to the economy. Critics complain that often these same federal agencies later write the goals to match the results to avoid further criticism when a regulation falls short or harms the economy.“Simply put, my amendment directs regulators to “tell us your objective, tell us how you’re going to measure it and then tell us you actually did what you promised’,” concluded Brady. “Let’s stop keeping the American public and local business in the dark.”###
02.26.2014	Texans overwhelmingly defined marriage as between one man and one woman, but one federal judge thinks he can overturn their votes with a single decision? share: f t San Antonio Judge overturns Texas marriage law, then stays his own rulingWashington, DC-- A Clinton appointee has ruled that more than 3 out 4 Texans were wrong when they voted for a 2005 constitutional amendment.“Texans overwhelmingly defined marriage as between one man and one woman, but one federal judge thinks he can overturn their votes with a single decision?” asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “The U.S. Supreme Court has been clear that states have the authority to decide what marriage is. Today’s ruling ignores those long standing precedents.”In 2005, 76% of Texans voted in favor of Proposition 2 that marriage in this state shall consist only of the union of one man and one woman. Today, U.S. Federal Judge Orlando Garcia ruled against the 2005 marriage amendment to the Texas Constitution and a 2003 state law, but stayed his ruling from taking effect until the case is heard on appeal.
02.26.2014	The ability for citizens to participate in our democracy is a sacred right protected by the First Amendment, continued Brady. "Whether you are Republican or Democrat, Tea Party or progressive, the government has no right to stifle your voice and it's important that we stop this now." share: f t ‘IRS rules are not about clearing up confusion; they’re about intimidation’Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act, sponsored by Ways and Means Chairman, Dave Camp (R-MI). This bill will stop the IRS from implementing their proposed rules regarding political activities for 501(c)(4)s. Texas Congressman and senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, Kevin Brady, showed strong support for the bill in his speech from the House floor.*“Many Americans are frightened by the thought that their government might target them based on their political beliefs,” said Brady, who has helped lead the investigation into the IRS targeting conservative groups for their political beliefs. “Based on the IRS’s track-record, they have good reason for their concern. These rules proposed by the IRS are not about clearing up confusion; these rules are about intimidation.”“The ability for citizens to participate in our democracy is a sacred right protected by the First Amendment,” continued Brady. “Whether you are Republican or Democrat, Tea Party or progressive, the government has no right to stifle your voice and it’s important that we stop this now.”###*VIDEO: IRS rules are not about clearing up confusion; this is about intimidation' http://bit.ly/1fUCFob
02.26.2014	With the federal government living beyond its means, spending cuts can get us halfway to a balanced budget but we'll need a much stronger economy to finish the job and begin paying down America's $17 trillion debt, says Brady. "To jump-start the economy we need a simpler, fairer tax code that protects taxpayers, not special interests, and that helps America compete and win." share: f t Pro-growth tax reform will help balance budget & pay down U.S. debt, says Joint Economic Chairman BradyWashington, DC– After three years of intensive work, the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee led by Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) released a discussion draft today that proposes the first top-to-bottom rewrite of America’s complex tax code in three decades.Unlike President Obama’s Affordable Care Act that was assembled in secrecy, House Republicans are counting on the input from American families, taxpayers and local businesses to create a simpler, fairer tax code.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the committee, has championed the need for tax reform and held 31 tax reform town halls last fall to gather ideas from his constituents and small businesses.“With the federal government living beyond its means, spending cuts can get us halfway to a balanced budget but we’ll need a much stronger economy to finish the job and begin paying down America's $17 trillion debt,” says Brady. “To jump-start the economy we need a simpler, fairer tax code that protects taxpayers, not special interests, and that helps America compete and win.”Brady says the current 70,000 page tax code is too costly, too complex and too unfair. It’s time, he says, to challenge business-as-usual in Washington. “There is no perfect tax code, but starting today the American people can start putting their power behind fixing this broken tax code and reining in the IRS. We need a tax code that is built for growth – growth of your family, your business and our economy. I want to hear your thoughts.” The draft proposal shrinks the tax code by a quarter, boosts the economy by $3.4 trillion, creates nearly two million new American jobs and will allow 95% of taxpayers to file without itemizing their taxes. It increases the tax-home pay for an average American family by $1,300 and permanently repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax. A link to the discussion draft can be found at http://waysandmeans.house.gov/uploadedfiles/statutory_text_tax_reform_act_of_2014_discussion_draft__022614.pdf###
02.25.2014	These bills have a simple goal – more power to taxpayers, less power for government agencies like the IRS, said Brady, who is helping lead the congressional investigation of the IRS targeting conservative groups. "American families and businesses deserve better than a government that stifles their voices, wastes their tax dollars and abuses their constitutional rights. Enough is enough." share: f t Brady supports ‘more power to taxpayers, less power to the IRS’ Washington, DC– The U.S. House of Representatives passed six bills tonight which gives taxpayers stronger rights when dealing with government agencies like the Internal Revenue Service. One of the measures also protects consumers from prosecution for unlocking their cell phones and other wireless devices.The package of bills is supported by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee.“These bills have a simple goal – more power to taxpayers, less power for government agencies like the IRS,” said Brady, who is helping lead the congressional investigation of the IRS targeting conservative groups. “American families and businesses deserve better than a government that stifles their voices, wastes their tax dollars and abuses their constitutional rights. Enough is enough.”Included are measures by Rep. Peter Roskam (R-IL) which prohibits the IRS from asking taxpayers inappropriate questions or dragging out audits past one year. The Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act by Rep. James Lankford (R-OK) requires every federal agency to provide taxpayers with an annual report card for each of its programs, including total administrative costs and staff, and the number of people who benefit from each program.A bill sponsored by Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) amends the Freedom of Information Act to eliminate loopholes that allow federal agencies to avoid compliance; another by Issa streamlines federal IT programs to stop wasting taxpayer money. And Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) sponsored legislation which will allow cell phone owners to legally “unlock” their phone so that they can use it on another network once they’ve satisfied their contract with their current provider.“These common-sense bills will hold federal agencies more accountable when it comes to how they use tax dollars and how they treat taxpayers,” concluded Brady.###
02.24.2014	The Affordable Care Act continues to cause more harm than good and the White House administration's own reports have now documented that as fact. We need health insurance reform that makes health care more affordable and more accessible for all Americans and we can start by repealing a law that is having the opposite effect. share: f t Health Chair, ‘American families and businesses have been misled by the White House long enough’Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee issued the following statement after the non-partisan Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services released a report acknowledging that two thirds of small businesses will see their health care premiums increase due to the Affordable Care Act:“On June 6, 2009, President Obama said, ‘The only change you’ll see are falling costs as our reforms take hold’ in a weekly address in which he outlined the goals of this signature health care law. I think we can safely chalk this up to just another broken promise the President made in order to sell his badly written, incompetently-implemented travesty of a law. American families and businesses have been misled by the White House long enough. The Affordable Care Act continues to cause more harm than good and the White House administration’s own reports have now documented that as fact. We need health insurance reform that makes health care more affordable and more accessible for all Americans and we can start by repealing a law that is having the opposite effect.”###
02.11.2014	It's important that America pay its debts on time and in full. I support raising the debt ceiling only if Washington cuts wasteful spending and begins to live within its means, said Brady. "Unfortunately, that didn't happen mainly because President Obama doesn't recognize the danger of deficits and Republicans didn't unite behind a plan to cut spending, create jobs or rein in red-tape." share: f t Brady Votes “No” on Debt CeilingWashington must cut spending, live within its meansWashington, DC– Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to suspend the nation’s debt ceiling until March, 2015, driven by nearly-unanimous support by Democrats in the House. Congressman Kevin Brady, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, voted against the measure.“It’s important that America pay its debts on time and in full. I support raising the debt ceiling only if Washington cuts wasteful spending and begins to live within its means,” said Brady. “Unfortunately, that didn’t happen, mainly because President Obama doesn’t recognize the danger of deficits and Republicans didn’t unite behind a plan to cut spending, create jobs or rein in red-tape.”“President Obama and Senate Democrats will continue to spend taxpayer dollars recklessly. Republicans have already forced over $2 trillion in spending cuts into law, but we need to do much more to get America back on the path to a balanced budget.”###
02.11.2014	The darkest days in America's history are when the government uses its immense power to silence the voices of those who disagree with it. We suffered under this intimidation during the civil rights era, the anti-war era and now with conservative and Tea Party volunteers, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) who has helped lead the committee investigation into IRS targeting. share: f t Washington, DC – In another step that signals House Republicans will fight the Obama White House efforts to intimidate conservative Americans, the House Ways & Means Committee approved on a party-line vote the Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014.“The darkest days in America’s history are when the government uses its immense power to silence the voices of those who disagree with it. We suffered under this intimidation during the civil rights era, the anti-war era and now with conservative and Tea Party volunteers,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) who has helped lead the committee investigation into IRS targeting. “Make no mistake, the intent of these new rules is to intimidate ‘We the People’. Whether you are Republican or Democrat, Tea Party or progressive, as Americans we cannot allow any White House to target average citizens who simply want to freely participate in our democratic process,” added Brady. “It must be stopped now.”The Ways and Means bill voted out of committee today suspends for the next year proposed IRS rules on 501(c)(4) non-profit organizations. ###
02.11.2014	These are the taxpayer's hard-earned dollars and we try to watch every penny. Most years we operate our offices on only 85 percent of the budget, returning the rest to the treasury where it is used for deficit reduction, share: f t Brady’s Office Budget Operating Below 2009 LevelsWashington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) has operated his congressional office so frugally that he has returned more than $1 million to the federal treasury over the past five years.This week Brady returned another $108,289 to the treasury from his office budget for 2013, bringing his five year total returned to $1,010,050. Under his leadership, his office has reduced spending every year since 2009.“These are the taxpayer’s hard-earned dollars and we try to watch every penny. Most years we operate our offices on only 85 percent of the budget, returning the rest to the treasury where it is used for deficit reduction,” said Brady, a former chamber of commerce executive. “We try to operate our office like a business – efficiently, with strong customer service. We want to show other Washington agencies that they can live below their budgets, too.”Brady credits his staff in Texas and the Capitol for the tight spending practices, saying, “Every one of our staff watches the budget carefully. They are fully committed to spending wisely, and I appreciate their efforts.”Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, has never moved to Washington. He lives in Texas with his wife and children and commutes to work in Congress.###
02.11.2014	While this is another stunning admission by President Obama that his law is unworkable, what's really needed is for all mandates to be repealed permanently. Really, at this point the President is just making the law up as he goes along to avoid voters holding him and his party accountable in the November elections. share: f t Brady Calls on President Obama to Repeal the Mandate on All Businesses, Large & SmallWashington, DC - The chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, Texas Republican Kevin Brady, released the following statement after the White House announced that businesses with 50-99 workers will be granted a one-year delay of the Affordable Care Act mandate that they provide government-approved health care or face a hefty tax:“Local businesses of all sizes are being hurt by the Affordable Care Act, not just small and medium sized ones. Delaying the mandate for a year doesn’t solve the problem of higher health care costs; it just creates more uncertainty and discourages them further from hiring new workers. While this is another stunning admission by President Obama that his law is unworkable, what’s really needed is for all mandates to be repealed permanently. Really, at this point the President is just making the law up as he goes along to avoid voters holding him and his party accountable in the November elections.” ###
02.04.2014	Sadly, the job loss predicted from this terrible law will hit low wage workers the hardest, added Brady. "Washington should be removing obstacles to success, instead of creating legislation and red tape that kills jobs and convinces Americans to give up trying to work." share: f t 30-hour mandate repealed; police, fire and EMS workers exemptedWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House Ways & Means Committee moved forward with a bill to restore the 40 hour work week as the American definition of full-time.“We need to preserve the 40-hour workweek in America and end the Affordable Care Act’s war on workers,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady who leads the Health Subcommittee. “The President’s health care law changes the American work week in a way that hurts the income of workers and discourages new hiring by local businesses. It is destroying jobs and opportunities and is especially hard on less skilled workers.”Today the full House Ways & Means Committee approved two bills, the Save American Workers Act and the Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act.On the second measure that exempts police, volunteer fire and EMS workers from being counted toward the ACA mandates, Brady commented “volunteer and part-time community firefighters want to protect our families, not be legislated out of the public service jobs they love.” As businesses call for an end to the 30-hour rule, labeling it a major obstacle to job creation, the Congressional Budget Office announced today that they expect over 2 million jobs to be lost to ObamaCare. “Sadly, the job loss predicted from this terrible law will hit low wage workers the hardest,” added Brady. “Washington should be removing obstacles to success, instead of creating legislation and red tape that kills jobs and convinces Americans to give up trying to work.”###
01.29.2014	The government's food stamp program is out of control, said Texas Republican, Kevin Brady, who voted for the bill. "The Farm Bill cuts this welfare program by $8 billion, prohibits illegal immigrants from participating, and allows states like Texas to require able-bodied adults to work for the benefits. This is a solid step forward. A ‘no' vote would have killed all cuts and reforms, and that is unacceptable." share: f t Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives voted today to rein in food stamp abuse by passing the Farm Bill, which will lower budget deficits by $16.6 billion over the next ten years.“The government’s food stamp program is out of control,” said Texas Republican, Kevin Brady, who voted for the bill. “The Farm Bill cuts this welfare program by $8 billion, prohibits illegal immigrants from participating, and allows states like Texas to require able-bodied adults to work for the benefits. This is a solid step forward. A ‘no’ vote would have killed all cuts and reforms, and that is unacceptable.”“Last year, I and other conservatives stopped an earlier version of the farm bill and successfully forced the House to separate food stamps from the traditional farm programs,” added Brady. “In the future, we’ll need a Republican Senate to ensure Congress takes up only ‘farm only’ farm bills with much stronger conservative reforms.” The legislation cut $8 billion from the food stamp program, the first reform since 1996. It also allows states to investigate retail fraud and cracks down on trafficking through data mining. In addition, it prohibits the USDA from SNAP recruitment activities, such as advertising on TV, radio, billboards and through foreign governments.###
01.28.2014	Most Americans believe our country is headed in the wrong direction. What they heard from the President tonight was ‘stay the course'. Republicans have a more optimistic, more positive vision for America that builds up people rather than government. share: f t ‘Republicans offer a more positive vision for America’Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement following President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Most Americans believe our country is headed in the wrong direction. What they heard from the President tonight was ‘stay the course’. Republicans have a more optimistic, more positive vision for America that builds up people rather than government. The President has stimulated Wall Street but left the middle class and Main Street behind. Republicans want to fix the broken tax code and rein in the IRS, remove the burden of ObamaCare on families and businesses, and get the economy moving so we can balance the budget and begin paying down America’s debt.“Perhaps the starkest difference is on tax reform. The President wants to tax Texas energy companies and close tax loopholes so Washington can spend more. Republicans will stop tax increases on energy and close loopholes so we can lower tax rates for everybody and grow the economy.”###
01.28.2014	Wherever you stand on the issue of abortion, the common ground for all Americans has long been that your federal tax dollars would not be used for this controversial procedure. Unfortunately, President Obama changed that in his troubled Affordable Care Act, said Brady. "It is time to restore this common ground – to stop tax dollars from being used to pay for or subsidize abortion within ObamaCare." share: f t “Americans agree that their tax dollars should not pay for abortions,” says BradyWashington, DC-- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives reaffirmed its opposition to taxpayer funded abortion with passage of H.R. 7, The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is a sponsor of the pro-life bill.“Wherever you stand on the issue of abortion, the common ground for all Americans has long been that your federal tax dollars would not be used for this controversial procedure. Unfortunately, President Obama changed that in his troubled Affordable Care Act,” said Brady. “It is time to restore this common ground – to stop tax dollars from being used to pay for or subsidize abortion within ObamaCare.”“I’m proudly pro-life because my wife, Cathy, and I have two sons because two women in two different, very difficult circumstances chose life and gave us a family,” Brady added. “To me this legislation is important for two reasons. First, life is precious. Second, your tax dollars should not be used to fund something a majority of Americans oppose and most find immoral.”###
01.22.2014	My wife and I have a family because two women, in two difficult circumstances, chose life. Let us continue to pray for America and for the sanctity of life. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, an adoptive father of two boys, issued the following statement on the 41st Anniversary of Roe v. Wade: “Today, I heard than 45 million American children have been aborted since the Supreme Court decision in 1973. I am not only floored by that number, I’m saddened at the great loss for our country. As so many gather in the snow in Washington, DC to March for Life, I am blessed to be able to hug my sons and tell them how grateful I am for them each and every day. My wife and I have a family because two women, in two difficult circumstances, chose life. Let us continue to pray for America and for the sanctity of life.”###
01.14.2014	If a new federal regulation can be justified only by hiding its true harm to the economy from the American public, then should it be imposed at all? Who is afraid of a little transparency, a little sunlight to ensure an objective, scientific analysis? share: f t Brady Expands Reagan Cost-Benefit Analysis to Independent Federal Agencies, Lowers Trigger to $50 Million and Seeks New Transparency to Curb Agency BiasWashington, DC – On the heels of a new federal report that estimates the economic burden of regulations imposed by President Obama is nearing $500 billion, the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, Rep. Kevin Brady of Texas, today introduced the Sound Regulation Act. The measure is aimed at spurring the disappointing U.S. recovery by requiring, for the first time, that all agencies of the federal government objectively weigh the economic impact of proposed new red tape against the estimated benefits.President Ronald Reagan first imposed cost-benefit analysis on executive branch agencies. Brady’s bill expands the requirement to independent federal agencies to ensure major regulations proposed by independent agencies like the Federal Communications Commission, Security Exchange Commission and the Federal Reserve no longer escape scrutiny.The bill:lowers the trigger for agency analysis for major rules to $50 million from $100 million;closes legislative loopholes that prevent agencies from conducting cost-benefit analysis;requires more public transparency to curb the controversial practice of agency bias whereby federal agencies conduct their analysis behind closed doors, resulting in incomplete conclusions that rubberstamp agency proposals and ignore significant damage to American jobs, competitiveness and the U.S. economy.“Local businesses will tell you the frightening amount of red-tape flowing from Washington the past few years is making it difficult to hire new workers, and in some case, to merely survive,” said Brady, a former chamber of commerce executive who spent 18 years in economic development and small business creation. “If a new federal regulation can be justified only by hiding its true harm to the economy from the American public, then should it be imposed at all? Who is afraid of a little transparency, a little sunlight to ensure an objective, scientific analysis?”Brady notes that of the 3,708 federal rules issues in 2012, only 14 were included in the OMB Report to Congress on the Benefits and Costs of Federal Regulations. In the cost-benefit analysis process, the Sound Regulation Act would require federal agencies to state clearly what objective agencies seek to achieve with a rule, why a federal rule is necessary, and how they will measure progress against the objective. It also increases early public input by stakeholders in the design of the analysis, and assures that only the regulatory options that have a positive net benefit or can be properly justified will go forward. In a ‘look back’ provision, all federal agencies will also be required to perform a retroactive analysis of their existing regulations every four years to determine with objective data whether they are working as intended.Brady added, “There are times when federal rules are necessary to set standards and achieve goals we can all agree with. But if that red-tape is going to kill the job of an American worker or harm the U.S. economy, shouldn’t we know it before it’s imposed? With record numbers of new regulations being written to implement laws such as Dodd-Frank and the Affordable Care Act, shouldn’t they come out of the dark before they have the impact of law?“With the benefit of better analysis, we can achieve more effective regulation and avoid red-tape whose costs exceed its benefits.”###
01.10.2014	As I've said before, this data hub is a hacker's dream, stated Brady. "You have the right to know if your private information is safe. If the federal government is going to require millions of Americans to input their sensitive data on a website, then guaranteeing its safety should be a given. But since we can't do that, at the very least we should let people know when Washington messes up." share: f t Brady, ‘You have the right to know if your private information has been compromised’Washington, DC – Chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), voted in favor of the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act, legislation that focuses on warning consumers when the private information they submit to the federal and state health exchange websites has been compromised.“As I’ve said before, this data hub is a hacker’s dream,” stated Brady. “You have the right to know if your private information is safe. If the federal government is going to require millions of Americans to input their sensitive data on a website, then guaranteeing its safety should be a given. But since we can’t do that, at the very least we should let people know when Washington messes up.”The bill is a response to witness testimony at congressional hearings that uncovered that the data base associated with the exchanges have high security risks. Expert witnesses testified that there has been insufficient testing of the system and that it could be easily compromised. This legislation requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to notify all individuals within two business days if there is a breach in which personally identifiable data is unlawfully accessed.“We require this of private companies, so why should the government operate under a different set of rules?” asked Brady. “It’s wrong to force Americans to put their private information on a website and then fail to warn them if there has been a breach in security.”###
01.09.2014	It is Congress who defines American trade priorities and at the end of the day it is Congress alone who holds the final authority to approve proposed trade agreements. If America is not aggressive in finding new customers for our products around the world, I guarantee you Europe, China and our global competitors will land those customers and create jobs somewhere other than America, notes Brady. share: f t Job creation: Trade is not just about ‘Buy American’; it’s also about ‘Sell American’Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) came out in strong support of the Bipartisan Congressional Trade Priorities Act of 2014, introduced today by House Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus (D-MT) and Senate Ranking Member Orrin Hatch (R-UT).“Conservatives will embrace this bill because it increases economic freedom while directing any White House to negotiate trade agreements to the priorities of Congress,” says Brady, the former chairman of Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee. “Trade is the freedom to buy, sell and compete around the world with as little government interference as possible. If we wish to remain the strongest economy in the world through this century, it’s no longer enough to ‘buy American’, we must ‘sell American’ to every corner of this globe.” Under the Trade Priorities Act, Congress defines their trade policy priorities, directing the Administration to aggressively pursue American trade agreements that open new markets and new customers for American goods, services and investment. The bill strengthens Congress’s constitutional authority to oversee negotiations and ultimately approve all trade treaties.“It is Congress who defines American trade priorities and at the end of the day it is Congress alone who holds the final authority to approve proposed trade agreements. If America is not aggressive in finding new customers for our products around the world, I guarantee you Europe, China and our global competitors will land those customers and create jobs somewhere other than America,” notes Brady. ###
01.09.2014	The measure of America's compassion is not how long we provide unemployment benefits, but how soon we get people off it and into good paying jobs. Americans want to go back to work and take care of their families. That should be Washington's focus. share: f t ‘The measure of America’s compassion is not how long we provide unemployment benefits, but how soon we get people off it and into good paying jobs,’ says BradyWashington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, says the President’s politically-fueled push to extend the five year emergency unemployment insurance program misses the key point – the long-term unemployed need jobs first and foremost.“At its heart, this is a cry for more jobs. The emergency unemployment program is reserved for extraordinary economic times when America’s unemployment rate is high and getting higher. As President Obama proudly points out, the unemployment rate has declined in all 50 states and currently stands at 7%, the lowest since 2008. Clearly the emergency is over -- what’s needed now are more jobs,” says Brady, whose committee directs the federal unemployment program. “The President and the Senate need to focus on passing any of the dozens of jobs bills the House has already approved, including approving the Keystone XL pipeline, which would create thousands of new jobs for those out of work.”Brady pointed out the White House has delayed bipartisan unemployment reforms the President signed into law two years ago that would have made it easier for states to match local workers with local jobs, and to conduct drug testing for applicants seeking jobs that require such tests.”The measure of America’s compassion is not how long we provide unemployment, but how soon we get people off it and into good paying jobs. Americans want to go back to work and take care of their families. That should be Washington’s focus.”###
12.18.2013	It's about time, Brady declares share: f t “It’s about time,” Brady declaresWashington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today praised the decision by the Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to taper its large-scale asset purchase program.“It’s about time. The Fed has finally taken the first step toward restoring a normal monetary policy. The seemingly endless doses of monetary morphine have served Wall Street well, but have done little to help struggling families on Main Streets across America. While this announcement is a positive first step, the Fed still has a long way to go,” Brady observed. Today, the FOMC statement said, “Beginning in January, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $40 billion per month rather than $45 billion per month.”
12.12.2013	This agreement rebuilds the readiness of our national defense, cuts the deficit and opens up the Gulf of Mexico for more energy development -- all of which are important conservative principles. share: f t Republicans Overwhelmingly Support Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013Washington, DC– U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 by a vote of 332-94.Over two-thirds of House Republicans supported the bill which cut the federal deficit by $23 billion and averted severe cuts to America’s military readiness. A majority of Texas Republicans supported it, including deficit hawks John Culberson and Jeb Hensarling, the former leader of the House conservatives.“The biggest budget-buster facing America is ObamaCare, and it’s important that any budget agreement not distract America’s attention from the harm our families, doctors and local businesses are facing as they are forced to pay more for less health care under the destructive Affordable Care Act.“This agreement rebuilds the readiness of our national defense, cuts the deficit and opens up the Gulf of Mexico for more energy development -- all of which are important conservative principles. I’m disappointed that Senate Democrats refused to work with us to begin saving Social Security and Medicare.“It also extends 100% of the mandatory sequester for two additional years and preserves 92% of the sequester for discretionary spending, which caps that budget at a level smaller than the conservative Ryan budget of 2011. Just as importantly, it blocks Democratic tax increases and prevents billions of dollars of more ‘emergency’ unemployment checks that are no longer called for under the law.”Some of the $85 billion in savings from reforms to mandatory spending include:· Forcing new federal government workers to pay a larger share of their retirement contribution.· Requiring businesses to begin to shoulder more of the $36 billion unfunded liability in the taxpayer-guaranteed program that bails out private-sector pension plans.· Closing loopholes in federal student loan programs· Reducing fraud in the IRS and Medicaid.· Preventing improper Social Security payments to prisoners. Major General John Nichols, commander of the Texas National Guard issued this statement: “If the sequester were to play out in 2014 or 2015, the Department of Defense and the National Guard are concerned about our ability to defend America. This will help take the edge off that concern and enable us to maintain more forces keeping our soldiers and airmen trained and ready to fight.”
12.12.2013	This agreement rebuilds the readiness of our national defense, cuts the deficit and opens up the Gulf of Mexico for more energy development -- all of which are important conservative principles. share: f t Republicans Overwhelmingly Support Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013Washington, DC– U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 by a vote of 332-94.Over two-thirds of House Republicans supported the bill which cut the federal deficit by $23 billion and averted severe cuts to America’s military readiness. A majority of Texas Republicans supported it, including deficit hawks John Culberson and Jeb Hensarling, the former leader of the House conservatives.“The biggest budget-buster facing America is ObamaCare, and it’s important that any budget agreement not distract America’s attention from the harm our families, doctors and local businesses are facing as they are forced to pay more for less health care under the destructive Affordable Care Act.“This agreement rebuilds the readiness of our national defense, cuts the deficit and opens up the Gulf of Mexico for more energy development -- all of which are important conservative principles. I’m disappointed that Senate Democrats refused to work with us to begin saving Social Security and Medicare.“It also extends 100% of the mandatory sequester for two additional years and preserves 92% of the sequester for discretionary spending, which caps that budget at a level smaller than the conservative Ryan budget of 2011. Just as importantly, it blocks Democratic tax increases and prevents billions of dollars of more ‘emergency’ unemployment checks that are no longer called for under the law.”Some of the $85 billion in savings from reforms to mandatory spending include:· Forcing new federal government workers to pay a larger share of their retirement contribution.· Requiring businesses to begin to shoulder more of the $36 billion unfunded liability in the taxpayer-guaranteed program that bails out private-sector pension plans.· Closing loopholes in federal student loan programs· Reducing fraud in the IRS and Medicaid.· Preventing improper Social Security payments to prisoners. Major General John Nichols, commander of the Texas National Guard issued this statement: “If the sequester were to play out in 2014 or 2015, the Department of Defense and the National Guard are concerned about our ability to defend America. This will help take the edge off that concern and enable us to maintain more forces keeping our soldiers and airmen trained and ready to fight.”
12.12.2013	More than four years after the end of the recession much of the nation has yet to experience anything resembling a normal economic recovery. share: f t Obama Recovery “Growth Gap” Hurts Middle Class & Main Street, Says BradyRep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee (JEC), upon filing the Committee’s annual Joint Economic Report for 2013, said the Obama recovery “remains disappointing and continues to shortchange Main Street and middle-class workers.”“We’ve got to do better to grow our economy and create good, middle-class jobs,” said Brady. “More than four years after the end of the recession much of the nation has yet to experience anything resembling a normal economic recovery. Unfortunately, compared to other recoveries of the past half-century, the Obama recovery continues to scrape the bottom in virtually every economic metric. The jobs have not fully returned, growth has been anemic, and incomes on Main Street have languished.”Findings in the annual report, required by law, reveals that since the U.S. recession ended in the 2nd-quarter 2009, real GDP has grown at an annualized rate of a mere 2.3%, far below the 4.1% annualized growth rate of real GDP in an average recovery since 1960.That ‘growth gap’ translates into 4.4 million private jobs and $1.2 trillion in real GDP missing from the U.S. economy today.The report also analyzes the President’s troubled health care law, the Affordable Care Act.“During the debate over the Affordable Care Act, Republicans on the Joint Economic Committee questioned its unstainable funding scheme, its long-term costs and drag on the economy, ” Brady noted. “We predicted the health care law’s damaging effects on private insurance plans that so many Americans rely upon and the law’s harmful effects on local doctors, hospitals, and the quality of health care services. Unfortunately, President Obama and congressional Democrats ignored our warnings about the ACA, and now American families, patients, and local businesses are paying the price—as is our economy.”The report comments on international trade and competitiveness, climate change regulations, and labor market issues.
12.12.2013	More than four years after the end of the recession much of the nation has yet to experience anything resembling a normal economic recovery. share: f t Obama Recovery “Growth Gap” Hurts Middle Class & Main Street, Says BradyRep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee (JEC), upon filing the Committee’s annual Joint Economic Report for 2013, said the Obama recovery “remains disappointing and continues to shortchange Main Street and middle-class workers.”“We’ve got to do better to grow our economy and create good, middle-class jobs,” said Brady. “More than four years after the end of the recession much of the nation has yet to experience anything resembling a normal economic recovery. Unfortunately, compared to other recoveries of the past half-century, the Obama recovery continues to scrape the bottom in virtually every economic metric. The jobs have not fully returned, growth has been anemic, and incomes on Main Street have languished.”Findings in the annual report, required by law, reveals that since the U.S. recession ended in the 2nd-quarter 2009, real GDP has grown at an annualized rate of a mere 2.3%, far below the 4.1% annualized growth rate of real GDP in an average recovery since 1960.That ‘growth gap’ translates into 4.4 million private jobs and $1.2 trillion in real GDP missing from the U.S. economy today.The report also analyzes the President’s troubled health care law, the Affordable Care Act.“During the debate over the Affordable Care Act, Republicans on the Joint Economic Committee questioned its unstainable funding scheme, its long-term costs and drag on the economy, ” Brady noted. “We predicted the health care law’s damaging effects on private insurance plans that so many Americans rely upon and the law’s harmful effects on local doctors, hospitals, and the quality of health care services. Unfortunately, President Obama and congressional Democrats ignored our warnings about the ACA, and now American families, patients, and local businesses are paying the price—as is our economy.”The report comments on international trade and competitiveness, climate change regulations, and labor market issues.
12.06.2013	Americans are coming to realize the direct connection between anemic growth and the economic policies that President Obama continues to pursue. In the fifth year of President Obama's tenure, we still have760,000 fewer private payroll jobs than when the recession began. share: f t Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today cited the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report showing that 203,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 196,000 private payroll jobs were added in November as further evidence that the economy has a long way to grow until private sector jobs and total employment reach their pre-recession levels. “More than four years into the Obama recovery, Main Street continues to suffer,” Brady said. “Americans are coming to realize the direct connection between anemic growth and the economic policies that President Obama continues to pursue. In the fifth year of President Obama’s tenure, we still have760,000 fewer private payroll jobs than when the recession began. This year labor force participation hit its lowest level since March 1978. And the unemployment rate remains at or above 7%.”“While I’m glad to see that more Americans were working lastmonth, too many families continue to struggle. Today’s report that is being hailed as exceptionally strong by the Administration is about 80,000 jobs short of the average monthly gain in other recoveries since 1960,” Brady noted.Brady called upon the President to join Republicans to put the right economic policies in place, including pro-growth tax reform, regulatory relief, and entitlement reform. “That is how to ignite a vigorous recovery that all Americans can feel,” Brady said. “The end of the calendar year is an opportunity to ‘turn the page.’ If the President will work with Congress, he would find many willing Republican partners.”###
11.22.2013	Anyone who is adopted or has adopted children themselves will tell you what a remarkable blessing it is. Thanks to adoption we have a family - and my wife and I have the privilege of being called Dad and Mom by our two sons. I am forever grateful for the two women who chose life, chose adoption and entrusted these two precious babies to our safe keeping. share: f t Washington, DC– U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement celebrating National Adoption Day which is Saturday, November 23, 2013:“Anyone who is adopted or has adopted children themselves will tell you what a remarkable blessing it is. Thanks to adoption, we have a family - and my wife and I have the privilege of being called Dad and Mom by our two sons. I am forever grateful for the two women who chose life, chose adoption and entrusted these two precious babies to our safe keeping.“I strongly encourage couples to explore adoption. Today, more than 100,000 children and youth in America’s foster care system are waiting for families. The Saturday before Thanksgiving is designated National Adoption Day so that we can help bring attention to these kids who need a home and to the joys of adoption. You’ll begin a rewarding journey that could change a child’s life forever, while enriching your own.”###
11.21.2013	Wall Street is celebrating, but what about our middle-class families? In President Obama's disappointing economic recovery, they are being left behind. share: f t JEC Chairman says “The Obama recovery has left the middle class behind.”Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement as the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a record high of 16,010. “Wall Street is celebrating, but what about our middle-class families? In President Obama’s disappointing economic recovery, they are being left behind.”Brady points out that the Obama’s stimulus and the Federal Reserve’s $2 trillion of quantitative easing and five years of extraordinarily low interest rates have boosted stock prices, benefiting Wall Street, while ignoring middle-class Americans. The S&P 500 Total Return Index is up by more than 86%, while real disposable income per person (3.7%) is two-thirds less than in an average post-1960 economic recovery (11.7%).“Here is an eye-opener: the typical American family of four is missing over $11,000 in real disposable income because President Obama and the Federal Reserve have focused on Wall Street instead of Main Street. The Fed’s ‘easy money’ policy hasn’t encouraged businesses to create new jobs for middle-class Americans, while our retirees and savers have seen their interest income erode. And ObamaCare is raising everyone’s health care costs. That’s nothing to celebrate.” ###
11.21.2013	Small and medium sized businesses want to focus on growing their business and let the professionals manage complex state and federal regulations related to benefits and taxes, said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. "The Small Business Efficiency Act will ensure high standards for these PEOs which then allow local businesses do what they do best – succeed." share: f t ‘Let’s allow small businesses to focus on creating more jobs,’ says BradyWashington, DC – Today U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas, and Mike Thompson, a Democrat from California, introduced the Small Business Efficiency Act of 2013.The measure helps small businesses deal with complex payroll, health and retirement regulation by providing clear standards for professional employer organizations like Houston’s Insperity or TriNet in California. These PEOs, as they are known, are certified by the IRS to collect and remit federal employment taxes for small businesses. “Small and medium sized businesses want to focus on growing their business and let the professionals manage complex state and federal regulations related to benefits and taxes,” said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “The Small Business Efficiency Act will ensure high standards for these PEOs which then allow local businesses do what they do best – succeed.” PEOs provide human resources services to their small business clients, including access to retirement plans, health insurance, life insurance, and other benefits that many small businesses would not otherwise be able to afford. One of the most important tasks that PEOs can perform for small businesses is the timely and accurate payment of wages and the collection and timely remittance of employment taxes.###
11.21.2013	The American people have a right to expect that the economic statistics produced by federal statistical agencies accurately reflect the actual state of the our economy–especially the number of Americans in the labor force, the number working, and the number seeking work, but unable to find it. They need to know that BLS statistics are true representations, not numbers "doctored" to further the immediate political objectives of one political party. share: f t Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement in regards to allegations concerning the Bureau of the Census:“I am troubled by allegations that one or more individuals at the Bureau of the Census may have falsified input data for the monthly Current Population Survey. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) uses data from this survey to calculate national, state, and local employment and unemployment statistics. The private sector, as well as the Congress, relies on the accuracy and integrity of these statistics to make important economic decisions. A number of congressional committees, including the Joint Economic Committee, which I chair, and Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, will investigate these allegations of wrongdoing as well as their impact on the accuracy of BLS statistics released to the American people.”“These serious allegations warrant scrutiny. The American people have a right to expect that the economic statistics produced by federal statistical agencies accurately reflect the actual state of the our economy—especially the number of Americans in the labor force, the number working, and the number seeking work, but unable to find it. Presidents, Members of Congress, and the Federal Reserve, as well as corporate executives and small entrepreneurs, use BLS statistics to help them make important decisions. They need to know that BLS statistics are true representations, not numbers “doctored” to further the immediate political objectives of one political party.”“The public’s faith in the accuracy of federal economic statistics has long distinguished the United States from dictatorships, tyrannies, and banana republics. The trust the American people have invested in federal statistical agencies and the economic statistics they generate must continue to be warranted.”“If these allegations are true, anyone who sought to “cook the books” must be ferreted out and punished so that the public’s faith in our institutions can be restored. We will work diligently to find the truth.”###
11.20.2013	Too many Americans, including recent college graduates, are struggling to find good jobs in this disappointing economic recovery. Why can't we get Washington out of the way so we can produce more American-made energy and more American-made jobs? share: f t Brady says disappointing U.S. economy needs good-paying energy jobsWashington, DC– This week the U.S. House of Representatives passed a package of three jobs bills designed to improve the disappointing economic recovery under President Obama.“Too many Americans, including recent college graduates, are struggling to find good jobs in this disappointing economic recovery. Why can’t we get Washington out of the way so we can produce more American-made energy and more American-made jobs?” asks U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas. “These common-sense bills cut the red-tape, speed up the permitting process and move affordable energy more quickly to your homes, businesses and communities. If the President and Senate Democrats truly care about the unemployed and our struggling economy, they will quickly pass and sign this legislation.”The three measures unlock federal lands to responsible energy development, protects the rights of states to set standards for hydraulic fracking and accelerates permitting for natural gas pipelines. They are the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act, the Protecting States’ Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act and the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act.###
11.16.2013	Taxpayers shouldn't have to continue to float the bill for this failed program. Advanced ethanol has been five years away from commercial success for the last twenty years. Enough is enough, says Brady. share: f t ‘Taxpayers shouldn’t float bill for failed program’Washington, DC – The Environmental Protection Agency announced today a proposal to lower the blending levels of ethanol in fuel, drawing praise from Houston area U.S. Congressman, Kevin Brady (R-TX).“Taxpayers shouldn’t have to continue to float the bill for this failed program. Advanced ethanol has been five years away from commercial success for the last twenty years. Enough is enough,” says Brady. “The ethanol amounts mandated previously by the Renewable Fuel Standard might force refiners to blend E15 gasoline, which AAA and numerous auto-manufacturers have stated will damage engines.”Brady also noted that even environmentalists are questioning the effects on the environment from Washington’s pushing ethanol as an alternative bio-fuel. The Associated Press recently reported that millions of acres of conservation land had been plowed under by farmers getting government subsidies for producing corn.*“This proposal from the EPA is good news, but the real answer is to rid taxpayers of the ethanol mandate in its entirety and let the free-market determine the evolution of the bio-fuel industry. That’s why I’m a cosponsor of Rep. Bob Goodlatte’s (R-VA) legislation, The RFS Elimination Act,” concluded Brady.###*Published: November 12, 2013 - Associated Press: The secret, dirty cost of Obama’s green power push http://bit.ly/1gS7oaC
11.15.2013	At this late date I'm not convinced there's a magic wand the White House or Congress can wave to make the old coverage reappear. Families have no one to blame but those who support President Obama's painful new law. share: f t Waving a magic wand won’t make plans reappear, says Health ChairmanWashington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after voting for the ‘Keep Your Health Care Plan Act’, sponsored by Fred Upton (R-MI):“It’s important to try but, honestly, too much harm has already been done for this to help much. I warned four years ago that tens of thousands of Texas families would be abandoned when the President failed to keep his promise to let them keep their policies.“At this late date I’m not convinced there’s a magic wand the White House or Congress can wave to make the old coverage reappear. Families have no one to blame but those who support President Obama’s painful new law.” ###
11.11.2013	Jesus said that there is no greater love than being willing to lay down your own life for your friend. What better way to describe a Veteran's heart? share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement honoring our veterans:“Jesus said that there is no greater love than being willing to lay down your own life for your friend. What better way to describe a Veteran’s heart? They have willingly put their lives on the line for their family, their friends, their neighbors and their country. Today, we honor the courageous men and women who have sacrificed so much to face our nation’s enemies. We also honor the families who stand behind our valiant service members with their love and encouragement. Our veterans continue to be a blessing to our community and our nation once they return home, and are a needed reminder that freedom is not free.”###
11.07.2013	Four years after the recovery began why has the economy not yet picked up steam? There is a deep-seated lack of confidence by Main Street businesses in an Obama-led recovery built on the foundation of tax increases, red tape and Federal Reserve stimulus. Economy should be growing by 4% or more by nowWashington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, responded to today’s report by the Bureau of Analysis (BEA) that real gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an annual rate of 2.8% during the third quarter. Brady noted, “Growth was slightly more than expected primarily because of higher state and local government consumption and investment spending and a buildup of private inventory.”Brady continued, “Four years after the recovery began why has the economy not yet picked up steam? There is a deep-seated lack of confidence by Main Street businesses in an Obama-led recovery built on the foundation of tax increases, red tape and Federal Reserve stimulus. America's economy should be growing at a much faster pace. But as long as the White House stubbornly 'stays the course,' I anticipate we'll continue to see a blasé recovery.”“Over the 4¼ years since the recession ended the economy has grown at an annual rate of 2.3% —slightly more than half the average rate of growth during prior recoveries following 1960. The real growth gap compared to other post-1960 recoveries stands at $1.3 trillion. Until we close the growth gap with free market-oriented policies, job creation will continue at an anemic pace, and millions of Americans will continue to suffer unnecessarily.”Brady concluded, “Today’s report does not include the effects of the Federal government shutdown because it began on October 1, 2013, after the third quarter had ended.”### share: f t 11/7/13 9:22
10.28.2013	Our veterans deserve to receive a response to their claims in a timely manner, instead of getting the run around from the government they fought to protect, said Congressman Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican whose brother is an Iraq War veteran and a comm share: f t Veterans deserve quick response, not the run-aroundWashington, DC– The U.S. House of Representatives voted tonight to take steps to clear the backlog of disability claims at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The bi-partisan measure creates a task force that will evaluate the current backlog and appeals process, and then submit a report with possible solutions.“Our veterans deserve to receive a response to their claims in a timely manner, instead of getting the run around from the government they fought to protect,” said Congressman Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican whose brother is an Iraq War veteran and a command sergeant major in the U.S. Army. “For too many of them, their lives are on hold as they wait for the assistance they need and have earned. That’s not fair to them or their families.”The law requires the administration to prioritize the claims, ensuring that the most vulnerable are helped first. The legislation also directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to either implement the solutions offered or to provide justification as to why the ideas are not utilized. Backlogged claims are defined as pending longer than 125 days. Currently, there are over 400,000 backlogged claims in the system.###
10.28.2013	I'm disappointed in the court's ruling because Texas carefully crafted a law that protects the life and health of both the mother and the unborn. Both are important. share: f t Protecting both the life and health of mother and baby is importantWashington, DC – U.S. Representative Kevin Brady, leader of a key health care panel in Congress, issued the following statement regarding a federal judge’s ruling against provisions of Texas’ new abortion law :“I’m disappointed in the court’s ruling because Texas carefully crafted a law that protects the life and health of both the mother and the unborn. Both are important.“In light of the horrifying loss of lives from convicted Philadelphia physician Dr. Kermit Gosnell, it’s reasonable to require doctors to be able to admit their patients to a nearby hospital when complications arise during such a serious surgery.“I’m confident the ruling will ultimately be overturned.”###*On October 31, 2013, this ruling was overturned unanimously by the U.S. 5th Circuit of Appeals, arguing in a written opinion that the state was likely to succeed in its legal arguments.
10.22.2013	The economy is still producing 100,000 fewer private jobs every month than are needed to make up ground on other recoveries. The private sector jobs gap compared to other post-1960 recoveries is still over 4 million jobs – and that's using the “This employment report is like a flat can of soda,” Brady says.Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today cited the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report that the economy added 148,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 126,000 private sector jobs in September as “another flat can of soda that lacks carbonation.”“While I’m glad to see some Americans getting paying jobs, this recovery continues to let the American people down. A smaller percentage of adult Americans are employed now than when the Obama recovery began more than four years ago,” Brady observed. “The unemployment rate has fallen primarily because many workers have given up. That’s not what Americans want. We must restore confidence in the private sector to spur the investment that drives job creation. That’s the only way Main Street is going to get back on its feet, not through more ‘feel good’ federal spending and monetary morphine.”“The economy is still producing 100,000 fewer private jobs every month than are needed to make up ground on other recoveries. The private sector jobs gap compared to other post-1960 recoveries is still over 4 million jobs – and that’s using the White House’s own metric of measuring off the low point for private sector payroll jobs.”“Now that we have moved past the threat of default, it’s time to get serious about putting together a budget that the government can live within and pro-growth tax reforms that encourage small businesses to invest and hire.”### share: f t 10/22/13 8:56
10.21.2013	It's time for lawmakers to stop "ignoring the 800-pound gorilla in the room" and do something about entitlements, U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady said Monday. share: f t NewsmaxMonday, 21 Oct 2013 01:32 PMBy Wanda Carruthers Share:More . . .A A | Email Us | Print | Forward Article 0inShare It's time for lawmakers to stop "ignoring the 800-pound gorilla in the room" and do something about entitlements, U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady said Monday."Let's stop ignoring the 800-pound gorilla in the room. Let's tackle it," the Texas Republican said on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program. "We ought to change our spending habits. We ought to start tackling the big issues, which we all know [are] Social Security, Medicare, and the others," said Brady, who sits on the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security.He said Republicans are ready to lead the way in working with Democrats and President Barack Obama to find solutions to the nation's budget issues."We would like the president to join us. We would like to lead," he said." If he wants a discussion about how we take those first important steps, entitlements, we're there. We're at the table now." Though not a proponent of raising the debt ceiling in the past, Brady said he never thought the federal government should neglect to pay its debts. But the vote by Congress last week to extend the debt ceiling until Feb. 7 just postpones making tough choices, he noted."Sometimes I feel like Washington, the Fed, the White House, are stuck on stupid. We keep going back to the same crisis time after time again. It doesn't make sense," he said."I think the public is way out ahead of Congress and the president on these issues," he said. They know something is wrong. They know something has to be done."Read Latest Breaking News from Newsmax.com http://www.newsmax.com/NewsmaxTv/kevin-brady-entitlement-cuts-debt/2013/10/21/id/532203#ixzz2iSgWW8eT Urgent: Should Obamacare Be Repealed? Vote Here Now!
10.16.2013	Republicans are willing to lead, but I'm afraid that as long as President Obama continues dancing around the need to take serious action to cut wasteful spending and begin saving Social Security and Medicare, a few months from now Americans may be vie share: f t Brady asks, ‘Haven’t Americans had enough of this?’Washington, DC -- US Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the House and Senate voted to end the government shutdown and extend the debt ceiling into early next year.“This Senate agreement pays America’s debt in full and on time, but regrettably allows the President and Congress to avert its eyes from the tough challenges facing America. Republicans are willing to lead, but I’m afraid that as long as President Obama continues dancing around the need to take serious action to cut wasteful spending and begin saving Social Security and Medicare, a few months from now Americans may be viewing a sequel to this fiasco. Haven’t Americans had enough of this?”Congressman Brady voted no on the Senate proposed plan.###
10.14.2013	The work these American economists have done in discussing the various theories of asset prices has helped explain the volatility in the market place that led to the housing bubble in 2008. These theories are important in evaluating the best way to see t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, released the following statement upon the announcement of the winners of the Nobel Prize in economics.“I congratulate Eugene Fama, Lars Peter Hansen, and Robert Shiller for receiving the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in memory of Alfred Nobel for 2013 ‘for their empirical analysis of asset prices.’”Dr. Fama, the father of the school of modern finance, was credited for his efficient market theory that holds financial markets are ‘informationally efficient,’ meaning investors immediately incorporate new information into asset prices. Dr. Shiller, a leader of the school of behavioral economics, was credited for his work demonstrating the role played by psychology in asset prices. Dr. Hansen was credited for developing an economic tool, the ‘Generalized Method of Moments,’ used for running regression analyses to uncover relationships among economic variables.“The work these American economists have done in discussing the various theories of asset prices has helped explain the volatility in the market place that led to the housing bubble in 2008. These theories are important in evaluating the best way to see the warning signs before we find ourselves in another crisis. I thank them for their research and congratulate them on their award.”### share: f t 10/14/13 15:36
10.11.2013	Chairman Brady's opening statement for the October 11, 2013 JEC Hearing: To build an office building, you start with the foundation, erect the steel skeleton, and then build out the specific offices. In past fiscal battles, however, Washington has of share: f t CHAIRMAN KEVIN BRADYJOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEEOctober 11, 2013The Way Forward fromGovernment Shutdown and Debt Ceiling Confrontation towardLong-Term Fiscal Sustainability and Economic GrowthVice Chair Klobuchar, distinguished witnesses, and my fellow Americans. Today, the federal government remains partially shut down, and the Treasury estimates that it will hit the debt ceiling on Thursday, October 17th. If President Obama and Congress cannot reach an agreement to increase the debt ceiling by the middle of next week, the United States could default on its obligations, the economic consequences of which are too grim to contemplate.Time is too short for the Washington “blame game.” America will not default on our debt. Nor will the debt ceiling be lifted without addressing the unsustainability of the government’s finances. Given our divided government, any solution therefore must be bipartisan.In the past, Democrats and Republicans have used the debt ceiling as a responsible means to shore-up America’s financial house—the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 came about through debt ceiling and sequester negotiations between congressional Democrats and President Bush, and the Budget Control Act of 2011 came about through debt ceiling negotiations between House Republicans and President Obama. Negotiations over the debt ceiling provide both parties with an opportunity to enact a 21st century strategy to put America’s finances in order for the long haul. Therefore, I’m proposing a way forward for President Obama, Leader Reid, and Speaker Boehner to reach a bipartisan solution.To build an office building, you start with the foundation, erect the steel skeleton, and then build out the specific offices. In past fiscal battles, however, Washington has often gotten the order wrong. Budget negotiations have often failed because we began by arguing over specific tax changes or spending cuts before we agreed on a goal and how to measure the progress toward the goal. As Nobel laureate Milton Friedman taught, the best single measure of Washington’s burden on Main Street is federal spending as a share of the economy. In the near term, the Budget Control Act of 2011 has helped to restrain runaway federal spending, producing the first back-to-back decline in federal spending in a half century. Yet, the Act wasn’t built to last, capping only discretionary spending. Indeed, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projects that the explosive growth of entitlements will cause federal spending to balloon to 26% of GDP over the next 25 years. That’s a long-term problem both parties agree we cannot ignore.Therefore, the first objective of any negotiations over the debt ceiling should be to set a reasonable limit for federal spending in comparison to the size of America’s economy. Then the negotiations should establish a glide path to bring federal spending within the limit over time and guardrails to keep future Congresses and Presidents within those limits. How you set those limits matter.A smart, bipartisan spending limit would restrain the spending that Congress can control—program and entitlement spending—while acknowledging the spending Congress cannot control—interest payments on the federal debt. So how best to tie controllable federal spending to the size of the economy? GDP as a measurement is revised looking backward and fluctuates with the business cycle, allowing unsustainable spending blowouts in boom years, but then requiring politically unsustainable, economically unwise reductions during recessions. A far more stable denominator for any sustainable spending limit would be potential GDP. This is a long standing economic metric that reflects what GDP would be at full employment with no inflation. The Congressional Budget Office already calculates potential GDP in its annual Budget and Economic Outlook. Its projections of GDP in years 6 through 10 are considered potential GDP. By using this metric as the denominator, we can eliminate the boom-and-bust problems associated with GDP and create a more solid foundation for lawmakers to build upon. What should be the target level of a spending cap? The prosperous 1990s can serve as a model. From 1981 to 2001, total federal spending declined from nearly 23% of GDP to under 18% while the population soared and entitlements grew. The economy, far from suffering, generated more than 35 million new jobs along Main Street—an increase of nearly 50%.That’s why I would recommend a steady glide path that would lower controllable spending over 10 years to 16.5% of potential GDP, bringing the size of the federal government back to a long-term sustainable level close to its average in the second Clinton term. President Obama and congressional Democrats might prefer a higher spending cap. But once we agree on the metrics—the foundation of a modern, enforceable spending cap—we can negotiate on the appropriate level to right-size America’s government for the 21st century. Budget innovations should also change Washington’s thinking. Under this new foundation, to increase federal spending lawmakers would have to increase the nation’s economic output potential. That requires growing the labor force at a faster pace – a good thing – and increasing productivity, also a good thing. Savings can get us halfway back to sustainable fiscal ground, but economic growth is needed to finish the job. This would also create a strong incentive for the President and Congress to tackle tax reform and entitlement reform. Dave Camp, Chairman of the House Ways & Means Committee, has proposed establishing a firm timetable for each chamber in Congress to consider and pass their best idea of a simpler, fairer, flatter tax code. Lawmakers in both parties, non-partisan commissions, and the White House have proposed ideas to extend the life of Social Security and Medicare. Along with establishing smart, bipartisan spending guardrails, these are long-term approaches that could directly correlate with meaningful extensions of the debt ceiling.Now is the time to enact a 21st century solution to ensure America’s fiscal future. I look forward to the testimony of today’s witnesses.
10.10.2013	Securing our nation's border is an essential function of government, and I don't know why the White House doesn't see it that way, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. share: f t ‘I hope the Senate doesn’t turn its back on national security,’ says BradyWashington, DC– Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Border Safety and Security Act which provides immediate and full funding for border security. This bill now awaits a vote in the Senate along with a long list of other bi-partisan House-passed bills to fund critical government programs.“Securing our nation’s border is an essential function of government, and I don’t know why the White House doesn’t see it that way,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “Now that the House has acted, I hope the Senate doesn’t turn its back on our nation’s security as it has our veterans, cancer patients, poor families and children in Head Start. Why are they afraid to hold a vote to fund these critical programs for the American people?”The log-jam over re-opening the government is tied to the decision by the Democratically-controlled Senate to protect their special treatment under the Affordable Care Act, and to deny workers a choice on whether they enter President Obama’s new health care exchanges in 2014 as the law requires. House Republicans have acted to approve both measures, thus ending special treatment for members of Congress. NOTE: You can see the full list of House-passed measures funding critical government programs and services at speaker.gov/senatemustact/.###
10.10.2013	Today, Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Subcommittee on Health Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirming that action must be taken by the Centers fo share: f t GAO Report: Remove Social Security Numbers From Medicare CardsWashington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Subcommittee on Health Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released a report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) confirming that action must be taken by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) to remove the Social Security number (SSN) on seniors’ Medicare cards to guard against identity theft and fraud. The report, which underscores calls by Congress for such action, puts the failure to act squarely on CMS noting that it could have easily incorporated this change.In releasing the report, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Johnson said, “I have said repeatedly that it makes no sense that Medicare beneficiaries have to constantly carry a card with their Social Security numbers on it. It makes even less sense that CMS doesn’t seem to care about protecting seniors. Last year, we asked GAO to determine if CMS could easily make the change to replace the Social Security number. This report tells us the answer is yes. If CMS doesn’t do what’s right for America’s seniors, we will.”Health Subcommittee Chairman Brady said, “CMS must take this simple step and protect our nation’s seniors from identity theft and fraud. The agency’s lack of action is unacceptable. This report tells us the agency has squandered multiple opportunities to address the problem. CMS needs to stop dragging its feet and begin taking the commonsense step of removing Social Security numbers from Medicare cards.”Background:Nearly a decade ago, the Bush Administration issued an order to remove all SSNs from public documents and create identity safe documents. While other federal agencies complied and removed SSNs, CMS has been replacing lost, stolen, or expired beneficiary cards. According to the GAO report, CMS has forgone the opportunity to make changes or even begin to implement a solution to protect seniors from potential identity theft by leaving the SSN on a Medicare card they advise seniors to carry continuously. The GAO reports that CMS still has yet to initiate the Information Technology (IT) project that is necessary for the numbers to eventually be removed from the cards. The report states that CMS IT systems would be able to handle the switch to a relatively simple translation strategy and encouraged CMS to take the administrative efforts necessary to achieve the changes. At a joint subcommittee hearing in August 2012, a CMS witness stated that the agency was eager and willing to work with Congress to develop an approach to remove SSNs from the Medicare card. Yet, one year later, there has been little to no movement on any approach that would remove the SSN and protect seniors from identity theft.
10.09.2013	Why would the White House refuse to pay families when their loved one dies while serving our nation? Playing politics with our soldiers is simply disgusting, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican whose brother is an Iraq war veteran and share: f t Chastises the White House: ‘Playing politics with our soldiers is disgusting’Washington, DC – In response to the Department of Defense’s controversial decision to withhold death gratuities to the survivors of deceased military service members, the U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass the Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act.“Why would the White House refuse to pay families whose loved one died while serving our nation? Playing politics with our soldiers is simply disgusting,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican whose brother is an Iraq war veteran and command sergeant major in the Army.Brady disputes media reports that the White House did not have the authority to make the payment.“When House Republicans passed the Pay Our Military Act and the President signed it, it was with the clear direction that these payments to surviving families would be made. The families of our fallen soldiers deserve no less. The White House’s decision to allow the Pentagon to deny these critical payments is inexcusable.”The Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act gives explicit instructions to the Department of Defense to pay all appropriate benefits to the families of military service members who made the ultimate sacrifice for the nation.###
10.09.2013	A legitimate concern for many is whether Dr. Yellen will continue, or worse expand, the Fed's stimulus of Wall Street with the uncertainty it brings to Main Street and the risk of future inflation. share: f t Predicts More Stimulus for Wall Street, More Uncertainty for Main StreetWashington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Dr. Janet Yellen as the next Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System:“I congratulate Dr. Janet Yellen upon her nomination as the next Chair of the Federal Reserve. She will bring to the post a reputation for outstanding public service, professional competence and personal integrity.”“A legitimate concern for many is whether Dr. Yellen will continue, or worse expand, the Fed’s stimulus of Wall Street with the uncertainty it brings to Main Street and the risk of future inflation. Clearly, if quantitative easing were succeeding in its goal of boosting employment, then America would not be experiencing a historically weak recovery four years after the recession ended.”Brady also predicts that confirmation hearings before the Senate Banking Committee will present Dr. Yellen with an opportunity to articulate what she believes should be the Federal Reserve’s primary mission over the next four years.“As the Federal Reserve nears its 100th birthday, I would hope that Dr. Yellen would work with those of us in Congress who seek to establish a bipartisan commission to assess the Federal Reserve’s record in that time and recommend reforms in its mission and operations.”###
10.08.2013	I understand Democrats in Congress don't want to live under ObamaCare – most Americans don't want to either. Let's end the Congress-only special treatment. And let's end the company-only special treatment and give workers the same o One Week into Shutdown, House Works to Re-Open Government“Why are the President and his Democrats afraid to talk?” asks BradyWashington, DC – One week into the partial shutdown of the federal government, House Republicans continue their efforts to fund government priorities while asking President Obama and Senate Democrats to come to the table to negotiate a re-opening of the government.Today the U.S. House will approve funding for Head Start programs and provide essential government workers with their paychecks on time this October 15th. The House will also act to establish a negotiating team ready to work with the Senate on re-opening the government. “Why are the President and Democrats in Congress afraid to talk? With many Americans impacted by the temporary shutdown, it seems almost juvenile that the President and Senate Democrats refuse to even sit down and discuss how to re-open the government,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady.“I understand Democrats in Congress don’t want to live under ObamaCare – most Americans don’t want to either. Let’s end the Congress-only special treatment. And let’s end the company-only special treatment and give workers the same one-year waiver from being forced into ObamaCare."Will Democrats deny workers their paycheck just to avoid negotiating with Republicans?" ### share: f t 10/8/13 14:45
10.05.2013	As the House continues to take serious steps to restore critical functions of our government, the Senate and President have decided not to reopen functions such as programs for veterans, cancer research and our national parks and monuments but have agreed share: f t Washington, DC-- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement as the House of Representatives keeps working to restore the federal government.“Why are federal workers more important than our veterans, national guard and cancer patients seeking treatment? As the House continues to take serious steps to restore critical functions of our government, the Senate and President have decided not to reopen functions such as programs for veterans, cancer research and our national parks and monuments but have agreed to pay furloughed federal workers? It’s time the White House and Senate join with the House to govern responsibly and not just pick winners and losers in their shutdown.”###
10.05.2013	As the House continues to take serious steps to restore critical functions of our government, the Senate and President have decided not to reopen functions such as programs for veterans, cancer research and our national parks and monuments but have agreed share: f t Washington, DC-- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement as the House of Representatives keeps working to restore the federal government.“Why are federal workers more important than our veterans, national guard and cancer patients seeking treatment? As the House continues to take serious steps to restore critical functions of our government, the Senate and President have decided not to reopen functions such as programs for veterans, cancer research and our national parks and monuments but have agreed to pay furloughed federal workers? It’s time the White House and Senate join with the House to govern responsibly and not just pick winners and losers in their shutdown.”###
10.01.2013	Closing the government is a serious matter. I call on Senate Democrats to back away from protecting their exemption from ObamaCare and put the people first. After all, they wrote ObamaCare – why do they refuse to live under it? share: f t ‘Let’s end this special treatment for Congress that no one can justify and get the government working again.’Washington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the Senate Democrats’ refusal to go to conference to work out a continuing resolution:“Closing the government is a serious matter. I call on Senate Democrats to back away from protecting their exemption from ObamaCare and put the people first. After all, they wrote ObamaCare – why do they refuse to live under it?“And why keep the government closed to protect a special ObamaCare waiver for business, but deny workers and families the same treatment? Shouldn’t we treat all Americans the same? Sit down with House Republicans. Together, let’s end this special treatment that no one can justify and get the government working again.”###
09.30.2013	ObamaCare isn't ready for families, patients and workers. Why don't they get the same one-year waiver others have gotten? asked Brady. "I hope the Senate doesn't protect the politically connected and needlessly shut down the government." share: f t Brady says Congress should live under the same laws as everyone elseWashington, DC – Tonight the U.S. House of Representatives will quickly consider legislation that funds the government through mid-December but with a condition: end the special treatment for members of Congress in ObamaCare and extend to workers and individuals the same one-year waiver the White House gave business. “Senate Democrats have a clear choice: Protect special treatment for themselves and the politically connected, or shut down the government. I hope they put America’s middle class ahead of their own privileged class,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), who says members of Congress should live under the same laws as everyone else. Brady, who leads a key health care committee in Congress, points out the White House admitted earlier this year the Affordable Care Act wasn’t ready for business and delayed its mandate a year.“ObamaCare isn’t ready for families, patients and workers. Why don’t they get the same one-year waiver others have gotten?” asked Brady. “I hope the Senate doesn’t protect the politically connected and needlessly shut down the government.”###
09.28.2013	For the sake of our families, their children and those whose health care has already gone up due to ObamaCare, I will continue to fight to dismantle ObamaCare by any means possible. share: f t Brady will continue to dismantle ObamaCare ‘by any means possible”Washington, DC– Later tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives will consider legislation that funds the government through mid-December, delays ObamaCare for a year, permanently repeals the job-killing medical device tax within ObamaCare, and ensures the military and their families are paid in case of a temporary government shutdown.The one-year delay in ObamaCare mandates, taxes and spending follows an earlier White House announcement that the mandate on local businesses will be delayed for 2014. “I don’t want Washington experimenting with the health care of our Texas families. It’s just too critical and ObamaCare is not ready by a long shot,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, chairman of a key health care panel in Congress. “If the President or Senate Democrats force a shutdown of the government, I want to make sure our military men and women are paid. Under a government shutdown, the President is granted unlimited power to determine which federal workers get paid and which don’t. I don’t want to give him more power because, unfortunately, I just don’t trust him with the power he already has.”Brady said the fight to prevent the White House from forcing ObamaCare on the American people against their will continues.“For the sake of our families, their children and those whose health care has already gone up due to ObamaCare, I will continue to fight to dismantle ObamaCare by any means possible.”###
09.26.2013	The American economy is struggling, with poor White House policies jackknifed across it, hurting job creation and keeping budget deficits unacceptably high. The House Republican proposal successfully addresses many of the biggest roadblocks – such GOP Debt Ceiling Proposal Grows U.S. Economy to Reduce DeficitsStronger economy generates higher revenues and less federal borrowing Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the congressional Joint Economic Committee, released a Republican staff analysis that confirms a House Republican debt-ceiling proposal focusing on growing the struggling U.S. economy will play a large role in returning the federal government to a balanced budget. The analysis, “Economic Review and Analysis of Selected Pro-Growth Provisions of the Spending Control and Economic Growth Act,” outlines the economic output and job creation of a host of pro-growth policy reforms Republicans are advocating as Congress considers increasing the nation’s borrowing authority.“In addition to spending restraint, the most powerful force to restoring a balanced budget is a strong economy”, said Brady. “A mere one-tenth of a percent increase in the growth rate of the economy cuts the deficit by more than $300 billion over a decade. In other words, growing the economy is a much smarter strategy than merely growing the debt, as the President champions.”“The American economy is struggling, with poor White House policies jackknifed across it, hurting job creation and keeping budget deficits unacceptably high. The House Republican proposal successfully addresses many of the biggest roadblocks – such as ObamaCare and oppressive regulations – while promoting proven economic drivers like more American-made energy, the Keystone XL pipeline, and tax reform.” Elements of the House Republican measure include:Delaying the implementation of Obamacare for one year.Providing a timely process for enacting a simpler, fairer, flatter tax code. Immediate construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline.Promoting transparency and cost benefit analysis to Washington’s regulatory process in several agencies, especially the EPA.Requiring agencies and regulatory bodies to consider the impact new and existing regulations have on small businesses, the locomotives of a strong economy.Subjecting regulatory proposals to cost benefit analyses. Increasing transparency in EPA deliberations.Planning for the systematic and orderly development of on and offshore energy resources, domestic minerals, and clean coal. Numerous other initiatives to jump-start efforts on reforestation, rural education, and drought control.“The analysis documents how pro-growth reforms would contribute to economic growth, relieve the budget deficit, and, above all, make this the ‘Second American Century,’” Brady concluded.###Economic Review and Analysis of Selected Pro-Growth Provisions Economic Review and Analysis of Selected Pro-Growth Provisions of the Spending Control and Economic Growth Act f t 9/26/13 9:57
09.18.2013	Our country is enduring the weakest recovery since 1960. If the President seriously wants to see unemployed Americans get jobs, it is time he started doing his job. And one of the most important parts of the job of being President is sitting down with Washington, D.C. – With the U.S. government expected to hit its borrowing limit in early October, Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today called upon President Barack Obama and Congressional Democrats to “come to the negotiating table” and “find a bi-partisan solution that puts Washington on a responsible fiscal path.” “Over the weekend the President stressed the importance of having the nation pay its bills and demonstrate its credit-worthiness to the world. I agree with those sentiments. But he also repeated that he has no intention to negotiate with Congress over the size of the federal budget and how much he intends to borrow to sustain it.”“If, as many anticipate, the Federal Reserve tapers its purchases of long-term U.S. Treasuries and mortgage-backed bonds (known as ‘quantitative easing’) the pressure will be back on the President and Congress to get our country back on the road to ‘regular order.’”“Our country is enduring the weakest recovery since 1960. If the President seriously wants to see unemployed Americans get jobs, it is time he started doing his job. And one of the most important parts of the job of being President is sitting down with the people’s elected representatives about the public’s pressing business.”Brady said that he intended to urge his Democratic colleagues at today’s JEC hearing to implore the President to negotiate with Congress. The Joint Economic Committee will be holding a hearing this afternoon at 2:30 p.m. in Hart SOB 216.### share: f t 9/18/13 11:53
09.12.2013	Just because the White House has botched this terrible law's implementation doesn't not mean that risks should be taken with our hard-earned tax dollars," concluded Brady. share: f t ‘Reagan’s good advice “Trust, but Verify” Rings Even Truer Today,’ says BradyWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House voted 235 to 191 to stop the President’s new health care plan from becoming a magnet for fraudsters and government waste.“The No Subsidies without Verification ACT insists that the Administration has a program in place to stop taxpayer subsidies from going out the door to those who aren’t eligible,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a sponsor of the legislation. “Not paying those who aren’t eligible may be radical in Washington, but that’s exactly what we must do.”The bill’s simple goal is stopping fraud and abuse in ObamaCare. “If a bank won’t approve a loan without income verification, why should ObamaCare subsidies be on the ‘honor system’?” asked Brady.“Just because the White House has botched this terrible law’s implementation doesn’t not mean that risks should be taken with our hard-earned tax dollars,” concluded Brady. “President Obama has admitted his not-so-Affordable Care Act is not ready for businesses. The White House now says “trust us,” but we will follow former President Reagan’s advice and verify first.” ###Video of Rep. Brady’s floor speech - "Not paying subsidies to those who aren't eligible? That's radical in Washington." http://bit.ly/1b9VJ4t
09.10.2013	I heard nothing tonight that changes my belief that our precious military resources should not be placed at risk in an ineffective, vague mission. share: f t Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement tonight in response to the President’s address on Syria:“This was a puzzling speech. How often does a President address the nation to call for a time out on the very military action he’s been trying to sell the American people on, albeit unsuccessfully.I heard nothing tonight that changes my belief that our precious military resources should not be placed at risk in an ineffective, vague mission. But it's disheartening to see Russia's president appear to be replacing our president on the world stage. As Putin moves to fill a global leadership vacuum, his interests are not that of the United States but of Russia and Syria's.”###
09.06.2013	While the BLS reported that the unemployment rate fell to 7.3% in August, a substantial portion of this decline was due to Americans dropping out of the labor force. The labor force participation rate dropped to 63.2%, a low not seen since Jimmy Carter w “Failure of President Obama’s Policies Becoming Clearer Day by Day,” Brady says.Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today cited the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report that the economy added 169,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 152,000 private sector jobs in August as “just one more disappointment in a string of disappointments.” “While the BLS reported that the unemployment rate fell to 7.3% in August, a substantial portion of this decline was due to Americans dropping out of the labor force. The labor force participation rate dropped to 63.2%, a low not seen since Jimmy Carter was President,” Brady observed. “This recovery continues to disappoint. The economy is producing 100,000 fewer private jobs every month than are needed to make up ground on other recoveries. The private sector jobs gap compared to other post-1960 recoveries is more than 4.3 million jobs – and that’s using the White House’s own metric of measuring off the low point for private sector payroll jobs.”“The President claims to want a strong middle class. So do I. Unfortunately, it is clear that this President doesn’t understand what made the American economy the strongest in the world and he seems unwilling to learn. Government can’t create prosperity. Only the private sector can do that.”### share: f t 9/6/13 9:17
09.04.2013	America's real national security interest in the region is protecting our friend Israel. What President Obama has proposed is not the type of strong, forceful military action necessary to deter North Korea and Iran from developing nuclear weapons. share: f t ‘This is not the way to restore America’s credibility’Conroe, TX – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the President’s call to engage Syria with American military assets:“I believe this is a mistake. The credibility America has lost over the last few years can’t be restored with two days of politically-correct missile strikes in which the message to Assad appears to be ‘feel free to keep killing innocent Syrians, just don’t use poison gas to do it.’“America’s real national security interest in the region is protecting our friend Israel. What President Obama has proposed is not the type of strong, forceful military action necessary to deter North Korea and Iran from developing nuclear weapons. They’ll laugh at this ‘message’ and continue to build their weapons.“I’m not going to risk our precious military resources on an ineffective, unproductive mission.”###
08.29.2013	Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), and Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA) today relea share: f t New Joint Paper Series Outlines Opportunities To Strengthen Quality of Medicare for Beneficiaries and Financial Outlook for ProgramWashington, DC – Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), and Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA) today released the first paper in a series examining the flaws in the existing Medicare program and outlining opportunities for reform. The series, Modernizing Medicare for the 21st Century, will outline a bipartisan approach that will both protect beneficiaries and reduce costs. With these papers, the Members seek “to initiate a discussion on how to protect seniors and place the Medicare program on sound financial footing.”The first installment of the Modernizing Medicare for the 21st Century series examines (1) the traditional Medicare cost-sharing framework and the impact current thresholds have on beneficiaries – often leaving them unprotected against catastrophic costs; (2) the impact of supplemental coverage with low cost-sharing requirements that reduce incentives to seek cost-effective care; and (3) how modernizing the traditional cost-sharing features could better align beneficiary incentives, ensure beneficiaries greater out-of-pocket predictability and reduce overall Medicare costs.In the coming months, the series will continue to explore opportunities to modernize and strengthen the Medicare program for both today’s seniors and for generations to come. Read the complete paper online here.
08.22.2013	Give it a rest, Mr. Holder, concluded Brady. "Texas IS protecting the voting rights of its citizens by ensuring the sanctity of the ballot box." share: f t Another Federal Lawsuit over Texas’ Voter ID Law is AG’s Latest Embarrassing MoveConroe, TX – Despite a sound defeat in the U.S. Supreme Court, the Department of Justice is filing a new lawsuit against Texas. This suit, filed against the state, the Texas Secretary of State, and the Director of the Texas Department of Public Safety, claims that Texas’ Voter ID Law is unconstitutional and in violation of a remaining provision of the Voting Rights Act.“I’m not a lawyer, but I don’t see any good that can come from overstepping the Supreme Court on this,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “Mr. Holder should understand that Texas will stop fraudsters from having unfettered access to the ballot box. Our citizens expect no less and newefforts to force Texas back under the Justice Department’s boot will not win this rodeo.”“Give it a rest, Mr. Holder,” concluded Brady. “Texas IS protecting the voting rights of its citizens by ensuring the sanctity of the ballot box.”###
08.02.2013	Our biggest challenge, Brady said, "is that a smaller percentage of adult Americans are working today than when the recession ended four years ago. This news will be difficult to tell the American people." share: f t “Disappointing jobs report will be a difficult sell during the Congressional recess,” Brady says. Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today cited the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) report that the economy added 162,000 nonfarm payroll jobs and 161,000 private sector jobs in July as further proof that the administration’s current economic policies are not working. The BLS also reported an unemployment rate of 7.4% during July. “The primary reason for this month’s decline in the unemployment rate was a decline in labor force participation—a disturbing trend. Had the labor force participation rate not declined since President Obama took office, the unemployment rate would be 10.6%, not 7.4%,” Brady observed. “Our biggest challenge,” Brady said, “is that a smaller percentage of adult Americans are working today than when the recession ended four years ago. This news will be difficult to tell the American people.”“This report together with the first estimate of second quarter gross domestic product (GDP) coming in below 2% on Wednesday shows a recovery that’s still on life support. The President claims to want a strong middle class. I agree with him. But since taking office only two million more Americans have found a job while 15 ½ million have gone on food stamps. Putting seven people on food stamps for every person that finds job isn’t the way to strengthen the middle class. Until the President comes down from the White House and begins to work with Congress, our economy will continue the trend of subpar growth and the jobs will still be missing.”
07.31.2013	Over the four years since the recession ended the economy has grown at an anemic rate of 2.22% –half the average rate of growth during prior recoveries following 1960. share: f t Bigger but not BetterWashington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, responded to today’s report by the Bureau of Analysis (BEA) that real gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an annual rate of 1.7% during the second quarter. Brady noted, “Our economy is running at near stall speed, and without a change in policy, our economy will continue to struggle.”“Over the four years since the recession ended the economy has grown at an anemic rate of 2.22% —half the average rate of growth during prior recoveries following 1960.”Brady continued, “This recovery’s growth gap exceeds $1.3 trillion. Until we close the growth gap with free market-oriented policies, job creation will continue at a slow speed and millions of Americans will continue to suffer unnecessarily.”“While the revision to BEA’s methodology for estimating GDP makes the economy look bigger, it doesn’t make it any better.”###
07.26.2013	In our lifetime, few will meet a greater visionary than George Mitchell. I had the great honor of working with him to help grow The Woodlands, and in this community he has left a living legacy for generations of families and businesses. He is truly the Fa share: f t The Woodlands, TX – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) released the following statement regarding the passing of Houston businessman, George Mitchell:“In our lifetime, few will meet a greater visionary than George Mitchell. I had the great honor of working with him to help grow The Woodlands, and in this community he has left a living legacy for generations of families and businesses. He is truly the Father of The Woodlands.“Mr. Mitchell’s generous spirit has blessed our community in many ways, from education to faith, research to the arts. And his vision for research and energy opened the doorway to the energy revolution that America is experiencing today. We will miss him greatly and his family is in our prayers today.”###
07.24.2013	There are 15 ½ million more Americans on food stamps than when President Obama took office compared with only 2 million more Americans employed. Every time someone got a job, 7 more went on food stamps. share: f t “Groundhog Day” for president who has led weakest economic recovery in 70 years, says GOP Economic LeaderWashington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee, in response to President Obama’s speech on the economy today said, “It’s the movie Groundhog Day once again. The President has saddled the American people with the weakest recovery since World War II and now, four years after the recession ended, he is again declaring that jobs are his number one priority. While Wall Street is booming, middle class families are struggling and over 20 million Americans can’t find full-time work. That’s nothing to be proud of, Mr. President, and another round of speeches won’t fix it.” Brady noted that economic growth in the current recovery is less than half the economic growth in other post-1960 recoveries. Private sector job creation is barely more than half the average and real per capita disposable income growth is less than one-fourth the average.“There are 15 ½ million more Americans on food stamps than when President Obama took office compared with only 2 million more Americans employed. Every time someone got a job, 7 more went on food stamps.”“The President’s policies treat America’s job creators and entrepreneurs as the enemy. This administration has attempted to over-tax, over-regulate, and punish the private sector at every turn. Whether it’s the refusal to approve the XL pipeline with its truly shovel-ready jobs or the burdensome, unaffordable, and unworkable health care law, this President has proven that he has zero understanding of how our economy works.” Brady concluded, “Mr. President, just get the federal government out of the way. Instead of putting handcuffs on job creators, try shaking their hand for a change.”###
07.12.2013	This provision levels the playing field and treats all parents equally, whether they work outside the home or not. Senator Hutchison is a true champion for this tax provision and it is right to honor her for her efforts to help millions of families. share: f t ‘Millions have benefitted from Senator Hutchison’s efforts,’ says BradyWashington, DC – On Thursday, the U.S. Senate passed the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA Act, legislation introduced by Senators Barbara Mikulski (D-MD) and John Cornyn (R-TX) in the Senate and Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) in the House, that renames Section 219 (c) of the Internal Revenue Code after former Texas Senator, Kay Bailey Hutchison.“Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison deserves praise for her tireless advocacy for parents who work full-time at home to care for their families,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, co-sponsor of the House bill and a senior Republican on the House Ways and Means Committee. “The Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA allows both parents to contribute to two separate IRA accounts, giving them the ability to make wise financial decisions for their future, even as they are making financial sacrifices in order to allow one parent to stay at home. This provision levels the playing field and treats all parents equally, whether they work outside the home or not. Senator Hutchison is a true champion for this tax provision and it is right to honor her for her efforts to help millions of families.”###*Video - Floor Speech: The Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA brings equality to the tax code and benefits children http://bit.ly/121Rcbr
07.11.2013	In the past, reasonable efforts to reform specific farm programs have always been overwhelmed by food stamp politics. It's long past time to break this alliance, said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. "While this legislation isn't perfect, it elimi share: f t Texas Republicans unite to achieve a long time conservative goalWashington, DC - Today the U.S. House of Representatives achieved the unthinkable by passing a farm-only farm bill that divorces the controversial food stamp program from U.S. agriculture policy. The long time goal of House conservatives passed 216 to 208. Every Texas Republican in Congress voted for the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 which includes major reforms in crop insurance and the elimination of over 100 duplicative programs. “In the past, reasonable efforts to reform specific farm programs have always been overwhelmed by food stamp politics. It’s long past time to break this alliance,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “While this legislation isn’t perfect, it eliminates or streamlines a number of programs and moves us towards the policy reforms our vital agriculture industry needs.”“As a conservative, I believe a farm-only farm bill is a major step in the right direction and just plain common sense. Next, we need to focus on reforming the explosive, unchecked food stamp program.” ###
07.03.2013	The bottom line: with the lives of Americans on the line, clearly ObamaCare is in disarray and the White House is not competent to administer its own massive government takeover of health care." share: f t Washington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, leader of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, released the following statement after the White House announced plans to delay implementation of the employer mandate requirement for the Affordable Care Act until 2015:"This is the second embarrassing failure by the White House to have a major provision of ObamaCare ready on schedule. The small business exchanges were postponed earlier; now the business mandate is proving unworkable. The bottom line: with the lives of Americans on the line, clearly ObamaCare is in disarray and the White House is not competent to administer its own massive government takeover of health care.”###*Video: Rep. Brady to Sec. Sebelius - "Do you have a plan B?" http://bit.ly/12kf5Lp
06.28.2013	Constitutional or not, the Affordable Care Act is a drag on our economy and Republicans in the House of Representatives will continue to do everything in our power to repeal and defund Obamacare. share: f t Health Chairman, ‘A bad law can and should be repealed’Washington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, chairman of the Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being ruled as constitutional: “One year ago, the Supreme Court of the United States declared that Obamacare was constitutional and would remain law. Fortunately, a bad law can and should be repealed. Because of Obamacare, Americans are facing rising costs in health premiums, losing the health plan they already have and like, and billions of dollars in tax hikes. And millions are also facing job loss or a decrease in their work hours.“Constitutional or not, the Affordable Care Act is a drag on our economy and Republicans in the House of Representatives will continue to do everything in our power to repeal and defund Obamacare.”###
06.28.2013	It's simple. We will never reach energy independence as long as 85 percent of our offshore areas remain off-limits to oil and gas development, Brady stated. "And these offshore areas will remain off-limits until the environmental impact studies are share: f t ‘It’s time to unlock offshore energy resources for responsible development’Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives approved passage of the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act, spearheaded by the chairman of the House Resource Committee, Rep. Doc Hastings of Washington. The measure, which is estimated to create $1.2 million new jobs in America, includes the “More Energy, More Jobs” amendment pushed by Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas and approved during floor debate. “Our nation needs more jobs, affordable energy and the security of more North American-made energy,” said Brady, a senior Republican member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “With this struggling economy and our nation in the midst of an energy revolution, it’s time to unlock our offshore energy resources and pursue responsible development.”Based on the “More Energy, More Jobs” legislation filed by Brady last week, the amendment authorizes state governors to identify offshore areas for inclusion in the federal government’s five year leasing plan. It also requires the Interior Department to conduct environmental reviews for those areas, typically a two year process that is the first step for including the tracts in the offshore leasing plan.“It’s simple. We will never reach energy independence as long as 85 percent of our offshore areas remain off-limits to oil and gas development,” Brady stated. “And these offshore areas will remain off-limits until the environmental impact studies are completed. My amendment ensures we’re moving in the right direction.”###
06.26.2013	This gives states more power to unlock offshore energy resources – and the jobs and affordable energy that goes along with responsible offshore energy development," said Brady. "As our weak economy continues to struggle, more energy jobs and more ta share: f t Gives states new power to identify, prepare offshore tracts for federal leasingWashington, DC – Today, Texas Congressman Kevin Brady introduced an amendment to Rep. Doc Hastings’s (R-WA) Offshore Energy and Jobs Act, a bill the U.S. House will consider this week which expands U.S. offshore energy production by removing federal government barriers. The Brady amendment is based on his “More Energy, More Jobs” legislation filed last week. It gives state governors new authority to identify offshore areas for inclusion in the federal government’s five year leasing plan and directs the Interior Department to conduct the necessary environmental studies for the tracts.“This gives states more power to unlock offshore energy resources – and the jobs and affordable energy that goes along with responsible offshore energy development,” said Brady. “As our weak economy continues to struggle, more energy jobs and more tax revenue is good for the economy and good for governments trying to balance their budgets.” ###
06.26.2013	It's important to recognize what this ruling does not do. It does not overturn state legislation that defines marriage as being only between a man and a woman... Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court of the United States’ ruling on the Defense of Marriage Act: “It’s important to recognize what this ruling does not do. It does not overturn state legislation that defines marriage as being only between a man and a woman. It simply requires the federal government to respect individual state laws regarding marriage in respect to federal benefits.“I want to reiterate my belief that marriage is between one man and one woman and my commitment to protecting this sacred institution.”### share: f t 6/26/13 13:44
06.25.2013	The bottom line is that voting rights are important and should be applied equally to all states, which the Supreme Court has confirmed. share: f t Brady says, ‘Voting rights laws should be applied equally to all states.’Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding todays Supreme Court’s ruling citing Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act as unconstitutional: “This decision by the Supreme Court is reasoned and long-overdue. For too long the Justice Department has held certain states like Texas hostage to their political whims by using a legal bar that is impossible to clear. The bottom line is that voting rights are important and should be applied equally to all states, which the Supreme Court has confirmed.” ###
06.19.2013	What kind of government swoops in upon your death and takes nearly half of the nest egg you've spent your entire life building? asked Brady, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. "The Death share: f t -Permanently abolishes punitive tax on family farms, ranches, businesses-WASHINGTON, D.C.—Senator John Thune (R-S.D.) and Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas) today re-introduced legislation to permanently repeal the federal estate tax, better known as the death tax, to finally put an end to this punitive tax on family farms, ranches, and businesses upon the death of an owner. Thune and Brady’s bill, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2013 (S. 1183, H.R. 2429), is nearly identical to legislation introduced in the 112th Congress that garnered the bipartisan support of 223 Representatives and 38 Senators.“The federal government has no place forcing grieving families to pay a tax on their loved one’s life savings that has been built from income already taxed when originally earned,” said Thune, Chairman of the Senate Republican Conference and member of the Senate Finance Committee. “Currently more than 70 percent of family businesses do not survive to the second generation, and 90 percent of family businesses do not survive to the third generation. According to a study by former CBO Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin, repealing the death tax would create 1.5 million additional small business jobs and would shave almost a percentage point off the unemployment rate. This tax punishes farmers and entrepreneurs for a lifetime of hard work. Death should not be a taxable event, and I will continue to work in Congress to see a permanent end to this unfair tax.”“What kind of government swoops in upon your death and takes nearly half of the nest egg you’ve spent your entire life building?” asked Brady, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “The Death Tax remains the number one reason family owned farms and businesses don’t survive to the next generation and it’s time to end this immoral tax once and for all in America.”Thune and Brady’s bill is supported by the American Farm Bureau Federation, Associated Builders and Contractors, National Association of Manufacturers, National Federation of Independent Business, 60 Plus Association, Americans for Tax Reform, Club for Growth, National Black Chamber of Commerce, International Franchise Association, National Taxpayers Union, American Conservative Union, Family Business Coalition, and many others.Thune’s bill is cosponsored in the Senate by Senators Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Dan Coats (R-Ind.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Mike Johanns (R-Neb.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), and David Vitter (R-La.).Brady’s bill is cosponsored in the House of Representatives by Representatives Mike McIntyre (D-N.C.), Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), John Duncan, Jr. (R-Tenn.), Jim Gerlach (R-Pa.), Tim Griffin (R-Ark.), Bill Johnson (R-Ohio), Sam Johnson (R-Texas), Kenny Marchant (R-Texas), David McKinley (R-W.Va.), Austin Scott (R-Ga.), Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.) and Tim Walberg (R-Ill.).###
06.18.2013	Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life, as I am, Americans should be able to find common ground that abortion is no longer an option in a civilized nation like ours when babies can live outside the mother's womb or experience excruciating pa ‘Legislation reflects advances in science and American’s beliefs on abortion,’ says BradyWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed landmark legislation to end late abortions. HR 1197, “The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act” is co-sponsored by Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act recognizes the improvements in medical science that have helped babies born at 24-26 weeks, weighing less than a pound, survive and thrive. It also includes protections for mothers facing life threatening situations.“Whether you are pro-choice or strongly pro-life, as I am, Americans should be able to find common ground that abortion is no longer an option in a civilized nation like ours when babies can live outside the mother’s womb or experience excruciating pain,” said Brady. “The law should catch up with scientific knowledge on fetal pain and scientific breakthroughs that save the lives of babies born prematurely at younger and younger ages.” When babies undergo surgery in their mother’s womb, anesthesia is used to prevent the baby’s pain, added Brady, who noted medical science has shown that unborn babies react to stimulus as early as two months into a pregnancy and can feel pain before the fourth month. ### share: f t 6/18/13 19:25
06.17.2013	Today, the US Supreme Court told Arizona that state officials may not require additional proof of citizenship documents for voter registration. share: f t States should not be denied their Constitutional role in electionsWashington, DC-- Today, the US Supreme Court told Arizona that state officials may not require additional proof of citizenship documents for voter registration. "If states want to ask their voters for identification that proves they are eligible to vote, they should be allowed to do so," said US Congressman Kevin Brady, "That should be especially true if the federal government is unwilling to protect the sanctity of the ballot box."Arizona's law allowed numerous forms of documentation, such as birth certificates, passports, naturalization papers or driver's licenses, but Justice Antonin Scalia wrote that if Arizona wished to obtain documentary proof of citizenship, there were other options such as asking the Election Assistance Commission to make changes to the federal form.
06.17.2013	Twelve new cadets and midshipmen are heading off to their respective boot camps this summer after receiving appointments from U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady. share: f t Six of District Eight’s New Cadets & Midshipmen flanked by Service Academy Board Member LTC Champe Miller (US Army, Ret.) and LTC D’Anne E. Spence (USAF)THE WOODLANDS, TX — Twelve new cadets and midshipmen are heading off to their respective boot camps this summer after receiving appointments from U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady.Heading to the US Naval Academy at Annapolis from District 8 are Jamison Andrus of Conroe; Madeline Bliss of The Woodlands; Ross Gilchriest, of Silsbee; Hugo Gomez of The Woodlands; and Colby Sciarrilla, of Vidor.Montgomery’s Alexander Markos and Henderson Watkins, along with Orange’s Zoe Casteel, will be attending the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado.Magnolia’s Tyler Anderson, Conroe’s Hayden Jenkins and Allyson Haylee and David Taylor from The Woodlands are heading to U.S. Military Academy at West Point.Several of the cadets attended Congressman’s annual Academy Sendoff Breakfast at The Woodlands United Methodist Church Saturday, which Congressman Bradyheld to “celebrate the achievements of these amazing young women and men who’ll soon embark on an exciting and honorable journey of service to America.”Air Force Lt. Col. D’Anne E. Spence, the keynote speaker for the event, shared advice from her days at the Air Force Academy and how the friends she made in her Academy squadron are the people she still relies on today. A Bronze Star honoree, Lt. Col. Spence served in the Afghan War, as a Chemistry Professor at the Academy and currently serves as an advisor on space issues to the Secretary of the Air Force at the Pentagon. She reminded the incoming cadets to “just breathe” and put honor and academics first as they begin their military journeys. She also told their parents this nomination “is a tremendous testimony to what they have done.”Her parents, Joe and Judy Emmett of Huntsville, told the parents to be prepared for good days and bad days during this “great experience”, but to remember that “they will survive” so “encourage them along the way… keep the faith.” # # #
06.07.2013	Today's report again confirms that we need to take the chains off of the private economy. Government policies are stifling growth and job creation in the private sector, Brady noted. Brady went on to describe the employment report as "the good, the share: f t “Not Much to Cheer About,” Brady says.Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, reacted to today’s report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics that the economy added 175,000 nonfarm payroll jobs, 178,000 thousand private sector jobs, and that the unemployment rate rose to 7.6% during May. “Today’s report again confirms that we need to take the chains off of the private economy. Government policies are stifling growth and job creation in the private sector,” Brady noted. Brady went on to describe the employment report as “the good, the bad, and the ugly.”“The good news is that for the 39th consecutive month the economy added private sector jobs. The bad news is that this recovery has produced four million fewer private sector jobs than the average of other post-World War II recovery,” Brady said.According to Brady, “The really ugly news in this report is that a smaller percentage of adult Americans are working today than when the recession ended four years ago. That’s not consistent with a real recovery.”“The fact that the unemployment rate rose 0.1% to 7.6% is disappointing and far exceeds the 5.1% rate that the American people were told the stimulus bill of 2009 would deliver. And the decline from the high of 10.0% is largely a mirage driven by a labor force participation rate that has fallen to levels last seen in the late 1970s. Without that decline, we would be facing an unemployment rate close to 11%.”###
06.06.2013	With this struggling economy and our nation in the midst of an energy revolution, now is the time to act to create more American-made energy and more American jobs, said Brady. share: f t Brady introduces bill to give states more power to identify offshore areas for oil and gas developmentWashington, DC – Yesterday, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) introduced the More Energy More Jobs Act which will - for the first time – give state governors the authority to nominate areas off their coasts for oil and gas development. Virginia Congressman Rob Wittman and Illinois Congressman John Shimkus joined Brady in spearheading the bill. “America may never reach true energy security as long as 85% of our offshore areas remain off-limits to oil and gas development,” said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “This innovative approach allows willing states to nominate potential offshore areas for the federal draft 5-year lease plan. And it directs the Interior Department to conduct the economic and environmental studies that are the important first steps for inclusion in the lease plan. As a result, Washington will no longer be able to disqualify these important areas for purely political reasons.” After the studies are concluded and the public has an opportunity to comment on them, the Interior Department retains a limited discretion to eliminate the areas if they can’t be developed safely or development is not in America’s economic interest. “With this struggling economy and our nation in the midst of an energy revolution, now is the time to act to create more American-made energy and more American jobs,” said Brady.###
05.31.2013	This report confirms what Republicans have been saying for some time, doing nothing is not an option. Seniors deserve to know that Medicare is there for the long haul. share: f t Camp, Brady, Johnson Statements on2013 Medicare and Social Security Trustees Report Washington, DC – Today, Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) made the following statements upon the release of the 2013 Medicare and Social Security Trustees Report. According to the report, at the current rate Medicare will go bankrupt in 2026 and Social Security will not be able to pay full benefits in 2033. Camp: “These programs face great challenges, and addressing these challenges requires that we work together. With more than 10,000 Baby Boomers becoming eligible for benefits each day, this Committee has been examining bipartisan reforms to protect and preserve these programs. It is our responsibility to make sure Medicare and Social Security provide current seniors and future beneficiaries the security they earned and deserve.”Brady: “This report confirms what Republicans have been saying for some time, doing nothing is not an option. Seniors deserve to know that Medicare is there for the long haul. This Committee has been working hard to address the urgent need for a permanent solution to pay local doctors fairly so they can continue to treat our seniors, and bipartisan improvements to strengthen Medicare.”Johnson: “This report makes it clear, when today’s 47-year-old workers reach their full retirement age in 2033, they, and everyone else already receiving benefits, face a 23 percent benefit cut unless Congress does its job. The sooner we act the sooner we can protect those who are most vulnerable and find answers that are fair to all generations. This Committee has already held two hearings on bipartisan proposals to strengthen Social Security. When we agree we should and we must act.” ###
05.22.2013	This was a vote for job creation, energy independence and economic growth, says Brady share: f t “This was a vote for job creation, energy independence and economic growth,” says BradyWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Northern Route Approval Act, which waives the requirement that the Keystone XL Pipeline receive a Presidential permit in order to commence construction. Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady, who supported the bill, said that his vote was for “job creation, energy independence and economic growth.” “President Obama has said that he is both for job creation and for an “all-of-the-above” approach to energy creation, yet his refusal to give the go-ahead for this project says otherwise,” stated Brady. “He’s had more than enough time to say ‘yes’ to 20,000 new jobs and to putting us on the road to energy independence. Time’s up. Americans still looking for good-paying jobs shouldn’t have to wait any longer. The thousands of Texans looking for work deserve better.”“I encourage my Democrat friends in the Senate to put partisanship and special interests aside and pass this bill. Hardworking taxpayers should not suffer higher energy bills and gas prices because of an ineffective, top-down energy plan,” Brady concluded.###
05.22.2013	Pulmonary Hypertension is a terrible and often fatal disease which affects thousands of Americans, most of them young women," said Brady. "When we've invested in research in the past, we've seen meaningful results. And we've discovered that an share: f t ‘This bi-partisan, budget neutral legislation will help save American lives’Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Lois Capps (D-CA) introduced the Pulmonary Hypertension Research and Diagnosis Act yesterday, bi-partisan legislation which will help improve accurate early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of patients who suffer from Pulmonary Hypertension (PH).“Pulmonary Hypertension is a terrible and often fatal disease which affects thousands of Americans, most of them young women,” said Brady. “When we’ve invested in research in the past, we’ve seen meaningful results. And we’ve discovered that an early diagnosis is the best way to make sure that current treatments are successful.”Brady noted that there are medications available that would help, but the longer it takes for the disease to be diagnosed, the less helpful the medications become, “so, early diagnosis is the real key for a positive prognosis.”This legislation will allow federal public health agencies to work together, deciding how to most effectively leverage available resources to identify and address critical health care barriers impacting early diagnosis and treatment for patients with PH.“Pulmonary Hypertension can be a devastating diagnosis for patients and families and with only limited treatments, it is critical that we do all we can to leverage our resources. Our bipartisan bill would do just that by making smart, coordinated federal investments and providing hope to all those with PH,” said Congresswoman Capps.“I thank my colleague, Representative Lois Capps, for her dedication to this issue and willingness to reach across the aisle in order to work on this bi-partisan, budget neutral legislation that will help save American lives,” Brady concluded.###
05.20.2013	Legislation Repeals Bay State Boondoggle, Does Not Add to Deficit share: f t Legislation Repeals Bay State Boondoggle, Does Not Add to Deficit Washington, DC – Today, Committee on Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), along with Reps. Pat Tiberi (R-OH), Peter Roskam (R-IL), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Aaron Schock (R-IL), Tom Reed (R-NY), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Jim Renacci (R-OH) and Morgan Griffith (R-VA) introduced the Medicare Hospital Wage Index Equity Act of 2013.The legislation repeals the "Bay State Boondoggle," a sweetheart deal included in ObamaCare that allowed hospitals in the state of Massachusetts (MA) to increase their payments by $257 million, resulting in hospitals in 40 states having their payments cut. As former Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services administrator under President Obama, Donald Berwick, said, “What Massachusetts gets comes from everybody else.” Without the Medicare Hospital Wage Index Equity Act of 2013, this inequity would continue in perpetuity.On the introduction of the legislation, Chairman Brady stated: “To many Americans, the secret earmarks included to ensure the passage of ObamaCare continue to be outrageous. It’s one of the many reasons why the House voted last week to stop this bad law now. Because of the controversial 'Bay State Boondoggle,' last year local hospitals in 40 states lost $471 million, and unless Congress acts they’ll continue to be financially harmed every year. The Senate already passed a bipartisan amendment to repeal this earmark as part of its 2014 budget. It is my hope that Congress will act this year to repeal this misguided policy. It’s time to stop rewarding one state at the expense of all the others.”The Medicare Hospital Wage Index Equity Act of 2013 is similar to S. 183, the Hospital Payment Fairness Act of 2013, introduced by Senators Claire McCaskill (D-MO) and Tom Coburn (R-OK).Background:The Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services (CMS) is required to adjust Medicare hospital wage reimbursements to reflect the geographic area where services are delivered. This allows for recognition that the average hourly wage for an emergency triage nurse is higher in urban areas than it is in rural areas. The Medicare wage hospital wage index also includes “floors” to ensure that the wage index for rural hospitals is not higher than urban hospitals. Prior to ObamaCare, CMS was implementing a change that would tie application of all hospital wage index floors to a state budget neutrality calculation -- meaning a change to the wage index rural floor in a state would reallocate money only within that state.ObamaCare changed this state budget neutrality to a national budget neutrality. Soon after ObamaCare was signed into law, a 15-bed hospital in MA was purchased by a large MA health system and was re-designated from a critical access hospital (the wage index does not apply to critical access hospitals) to an acute care hospital (wage index does apply). This 15-bed acute hospital set a new rural floor for the state of MA. Prior to ObamaCare this change would have triggered a reallocation of funds only within MA. But, because of ObamaCare’s change to national budget neutrality for the rural floor, hospitals in 40 other states ended up paying for the MA change. In 2013, MA hospitals received $267 million from hospitals throughout the country. Preliminary data from CMS suggests that MA will receive even more money in 2014.The Medicare Hospital Wage Index Equity Act of 2013 repeals the ObamaCare earmark and would convert any changes to Medicare hospital wage index floors back to a state-specific budget neutrality calculation. Overall, the legislation has no budgetary impact.###
05.16.2013	The American people were promised a lot -- lower health care costs, that they could keep the health care they have and that the economy would boom. Today, none of the promises have come true. share: f t What’s Bad for Patients, Bad for Businesses and Bad for the Economy Must EndWashington, DC– On a strictly partisan vote, the U.S. House of Representatives voted Thursday evening to repeal the President’s signature health care law. This vote comes on the heels of the revelation that the Internal Revenue Service, the law’s enforcement arm, inappropriate targeted conservative organizations.“It’s hard to point to a piece of legislation that will have a more harmful effect on our country,” said House Ways & Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady. “The American people were promised a lot -- lower health care costs, that they could keep the health care they have and that the economy would boom. Today, none of the promises have come true and independent experts predict health care costs will as much as double in some states. Who can afford more expensive health care?”Almost two out of three small businesses cite Obamacare as the reason they are not hiring. “While touring a pallet plant in Conroe, I learned the extra ObamaCare costs are equivalent to them opening two new plants and hiring 100 workers,” added Brady.Neither steep premium increases nor the loss of the current coverage constitute health care reform. Neither is forcing businesses to cut back on their work force or workers’ hours just to keep their doors open and meet compliance demands.With our economy staring down a one trillion dollar tax hike, Congress has an obligation to mitigate the damages.Even Democrat sponsors of the law are now openly questioning it, calling it complex and a ‘train wreck’. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has admitted that up to 24 million Americans face losing their employer-provided coverage.
05.15.2013	The White House itself has identified the ‘navigator' program as critical to the success of the enrollment in ObamaCare, and yet the White House still has not provided basic information about who these ‘navigators' will be, how they will be traine share: f t Brady and Boustany Request Information on the Navigators Program Washington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Subcommittee on Oversight Chairman Charles Boustany Jr., MD (R-LA) sent a letter to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius seeking answers to several questions surrounding the ObamaCare “navigators” program. HHS recently started the application process to distribute grants to “navigators” who will help the public enroll in the ObamaCare Exchanges. Due to bipartisan concerns related to the ability of the Exchanges to facilitate the enrollment process and the public’s heightened sensitivity to the federal government’s handling of private taxpayer and health information, the members requested immediate and comprehensive answers to several important questions to clarify the ambiguity surrounding the “navigators” program. The Subcommittee Chairmen requested HHS provide responses by May 21 to a number of questions including:What steps will HHS take to ensure that the enrollment form is handled in a manner compliant with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act?How will the Department ensure there are privacy safeguards in place in the federal Exchanges, and how does the Department plan to ensure similar safeguards in state-based Exchanges?Rep. Brady said, “The White House itself has identified the ‘navigator’ program as critical to the success of the enrollment in ObamaCare, and yet the White House still has not provided basic information about who these ‘navigators’ will be, how they will be trained and what privacy safeguards will be put in place. It is well past time to provide this critical information.”Rep. Boustany said, “‘Navigators’ are going to have access to sensitive taxpayer information, increasing the risks of identity theft for millions of Americans. With senior Democrats already predicting ObamaCare will be a ‘train wreck,’ this is yet another area requiring vigorous oversight to protect Americans from the endless costs of this law.”###
05.14.2013	Today's announcement by the Congressional Budget Office reaffirms that the time is now for Congress to repeal Medicare's flawed physician payment formula, the Sustainable Growth Rate. share: f t Washington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady released a statement regarding the May 2013 baseline update from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and its impact on the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR). "Today's announcement by the Congressional Budget Office reaffirms that the time is now for Congress to repeal Medicare's flawed physician payment formula, the Sustainable Growth Rate. While the cost to repeal the SGR has modestly increased to $139.1 billion, it is far lower than previously estimated just one year ago. However, continued inaction could lead to an even higher cost of repeal. We should act now, before we lose this opportunity."###
05.14.2013	Protecting the personal information and identities of our nation's seniors must be a top priority. share: f t Cost of Protecting Medicare Beneficiaries from Identity TheftFar Less Than Originally ThoughtNew Estimate Underscores Importance of Removing SSN to Prevent Identity TheftA new estimate released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) reveals that, of the options available to protect Medicare beneficiaries from identity theft, the least expensive of all would be a partial removal of the Social Security Number (SSN) from the Medicare card. According to the estimate, the cost of obscuring the first five digits of the SSN is $255 million. Alternatively, the cost of replacing the SSN with a new beneficiary number was estimated to cost $317 million. The estimate is a 62 percent reduction from CMS’s prior estimate of $850 million.The new CMS estimate was requested during an August 2012 hearing in which the Government Accountability Office (GAO) criticized the methods used by CMS in prior estimates regarding the removal of the SSN from Medicare cards. CMS was asked to recalculate its numbers based on GAO’s cost estimating guidelines.Responding to the updated estimates, Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) stated, “Despite the long known dangers of identity theft, CMS refuses to remove Social Security Numbers from Medicare cards. Ten months ago the Subcommittees on Social Security and Health rejected CMS’ phony $850 million price tag for removing SSNs. By holding their feet to the fire, CMS now tells us that the real cost to remove SSNs is actually 62 percent less than what they initially stated. It’s time for CMS to act. If they won’t do what’s right for America’s seniors, we will. That’s why I, along with my fellow Texan and Subcommittee on Social Security member, Congressman Lloyd Doggett, have re-introduced legislation, H.R. 781, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2013, to protect seniors and remove SSNs from Medicare cards once and for all.”Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) added, "Protecting the personal information and identities of our nation’s seniors must be a top priority. With the release of their latest report, it appears that CMS is finally taking seriously the need to remove Social Security Numbers from Medicare beneficiary cards. While it took three iterations of this costs report, we are encouraged that all parties are now fully engaged and ready to tackle this serious issue. I continue to look forward to the day that seniors can feel safer in receiving their benefits without the fear of losing their identities to thieves."In 2007, President George W. Bush’s Identity Theft Task Force found that the SSN is “the most valuable commodity for an identity thief,” and the Administration instructed all agencies to reduce the unnecessary use of SSNs. In 2008, the Social Security Administration Inspector General recommended that SSNs be removed from Medicare cards. The Department of Justice reported in 2010 that of the 8.6 million households victimized by ID theft, nearly 1 million were headed by a senior 65 or older. Yet, nearly 50 million seniors must carry their Medicare cards with their SSNs to obtain health services. The U.S. House has twice passed legislation to remove the SSN with overwhelming bipartisan support. Last year, the House passed, by voice vote, H.R. 1509, The Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2011, sponsored by Subcommittee on Social Security Chairman Sam Johnson and Congressman Lloyd Doggett. The legislation requires the Department of Health and Human Services to begin removing the SSN from Medicare cards. In 2008, the House passed similar legislation sponsored by both Johnson and Doggett. However, the Senate has not considered either piece of legislation. The two Congressmen have reintroduced similar legislation, H.R. 781, this session.###
05.13.2013	Murdering helpless innocents is the most heinous of crimes. It's hard to imagine what punishment would be appropriate for someone is who is guilty of brutalizing and murdering three babies. share: f t Gosnell Verdict is “Small Justice” in Light of Horrific CrimesWashington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the conviction of abortionist Kermit Gosnell:“Murdering helpless innocents is the most heinous of crimes. It’s hard to imagine what punishment would be appropriate for someone is who is guilty of brutalizing and murdering three babies. Gosnell will now be held accountable for his unconscionable acts, and that small justice is the right outcome, but I hope that some good will come from these atrocious acts being brought to light. Perhaps this glimpse into what happens during an abortion will move people to reexamine national policy on this issue and more innocent lives can be saved from the horror of abortion.”###
05.10.2013	When you walk down the hall where they display these Congressional Art Contest Winners at The Capitol, you can't help but be amazed by the talent of America's young artists, said US Congressman Kevin Brady. "But Grant's artwork is something share: f t “His talent far outweighs his challenges,” said US Congressman Kevin Brady Grant Manier presenting “Texas, our Texas” to Congressman Brady’s Deputy District Director Russell Martinez.Conroe – Grant Manier, an artistically gifted 17-year-old from Spring has been named the winner of the Congressional Art Contestfor the 8th District of Texas. Next month, Grant and his mother will travel to Washington, DC to see his work, “Texas, Our Texas” hung in the Capitol.Grant, who attends Focus Academy in The Woodlands, calls his work “COOLAGES” and his style “Eco-Impressionism.” But what you didn’t know about Grant might surprise you.Grant is autistic. However, he considers his autism a “gift,” because he is doing his part “to teach environmental responsibility and raise awareness of autism talents.”His autistic challenges include a repetitive behavior to tear paper, but he has channeled that challenge into beautiful art pieces. His amazing art is made from tearing scrap paper and the peeled off printed tops of discarded puzzle pieces.“When you walk down the hall where they display these Congressional Art Contest Winners at The Capitol, you can’t help but be amazed by the talent of America’s young artists,” said US Congressman Kevin Brady. “But Grant’s artwork is something even more special, because his talent far outweighs his challenges and the proof will be hanging in The Capitol.”# # #
05.09.2013	This legislation protects our seniors and our economy, while preserving our status as a world economic leader. share: f t “America’s credit rating and Social Security payments must be priority,” says BradyWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Full Faith and Credit Act, sponsored by Tim McClintock (R-CA), along party lines. Anticipating another debt ceiling battle with the White House this summer, HouseRepublicans are taking steps to ensure that defaulting on America’s debt is taken off the table.“This takes default off the table so America doesn’t risk another downgrade to its credit rating and Washington can’t keep ducking its spending problem,”said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committeeand co-sponsor of the bill.“A downgrade will affect not only the federal government, but could spill over onto every family, small business and local government seeking credit. This could be another blow to our already fragile economy and the tentative gains made recently in employment.”“I was very disappointed when every Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee voted against the legislation; they essentially voted for default,” Brady continued. “I hoped that they would place partisanship to the side when it came to the House floor, but once again they decided that America’s credit rating is not a priority.”Brady noted that this legislation also ensures that Social Security benefits are prioritized under this legislation. “This legislation protects our seniors and our economy, while preserving our status as a world economic leader,” Brady concluded.###
05.08.2013	A lot has changed since 1938 and our labor laws should change to give parents the flexibility they need to balance the demands of work and home, said Congressman Kevin Brady, the father of two young sons. "If government workers get more flexibility for share: f t ‘If government workers get more flexibility for their families, why shouldn’t other workers?’ asks BradyWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed The Working Families Flexibility Act, introduced by Alabama Representative Martha Roby (R). The bill amends the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to allow private-sector employers to give their employees the option of receiving overtime pay in the form of compensatory time off. Current labor law only allows this choice to be given to public employees. “A lot has changed since 1938 and our labor laws should change to give parents the flexibility they need to balance the demands of work and home,” said Congressman Kevin Brady, the father of two young sons. “If government workers get more flexibility for their families, why shouldn’t other workers?”Under the measure, participation by companies and workers is voluntary. Government workers have enjoyed this option for almost thirty years.“With all that parents have to accomplish, sometimes they need more time during the week to get to those baseball games, doctor’s appointments and parent-teacher conferences. This common-sense legislation gives families the freedom to do more together,” concluded Brady. ###
05.03.2013	Today's jobs report clearly exceeded the expectations of most economic forecasters. Let's hope this is the beginning of a trend. Even with today's report this recovery has still produced 4.1 million fewer private sector jobs than the average share: f t Washington, D.C.– Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) that the economy created an additional 176,000 private sector jobs in April and that the unemployment rate declined by 0.1 percentage point to 7.5%. “Today’s jobs report clearly exceeded the expectations of most economic forecasters. Let’s hope this is the beginning of a trend. Even with today’s report this recovery has still produced 4.1 million fewer private sector jobs than the average of other post-World War II recoveries,” Brady said.Brady continued, “Even the White House admits America’s unemployment rate may not return to its pre-recession level for another decade. Clearly the anemic economic growth of this recovery - particularly the lack of strong business investment in buildings, equipment and software – isn’t sufficient to accelerate private sector job growth.”Brady cautioned that today’s report “May turn into another false signal that the labor market is improving. We’ve seen this before. I hope what some have referred to as green shoots in the past don’t turn out to be another crop of weeds.” ###
05.01.2013	For the approximately 250,000 patients with compromised immune systems, there is no place more dangerous than a hospital for treatment. With this legislation we intend to prove that patients and Medicare both benefit from administering IVIG in the safety Brady Legislation Seeks Affordable, Accessible Treatments At Home for Immune-Deficient Patients on MedicareWashington, D.C. – By a vote of 401 to 3, the U.S. House of Representatives voted today to pass legislation sponsored by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas to examine safer methods to administer blood plasma transfusions to boost the immune systems of Medicare patients with primary immunodeficiency disease (PID). Brady pushed the legislation at the urging of Carole Ann Demeret, the mother of David Vetter, the young Shenandoah resident who passed away at age 12 after capturing the world’s attention while living in a sterile environment at Texas Children’s Hospital in Houston.“For the approximately 250,000 patients with compromised immune systems, there is no place more dangerous than a hospital for treatment. With this legislation we intend to prove that patients and Medicare both benefit from administering IVIG in the safety of their home,” said Brady. Today, as a result of previous law, intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) therapy is not available by home administration to Medicare patients with PID.“I’ve been inspired by the courage of David Vetter and his mother, Carol Ann Demaret, who as a leader in the national Immune Deficiency Foundation helped me understand how dangerous it is to send PID patients to hospitals and doctor’s offices each month. I’m proud of Carol’s dedication and her efforts on behalf of patients with immunodeficiency around the nation.”Marcia Boyle, IDF President and founder, added, “We feel very strongly that this legislation is essential to ensure the ability of patients to access their lifesaving treatments in the most appropriate site of care. Our champion, Congressman Brady, has helped HR 1845 pass in the House and now we must look to the Senate to finally achieve appropriate treatment for these patients.”This legislation will allow Medicare to offer limited expanded coverage of home-administered IVIG therapy, while studying the costs and benefits.“Regular access to IVIG therapy means a better quality of life and potentially the difference between life and death for these patients,” continued Brady. “For those most at risk, it’s important that we continue to make healthcare more affordable and accessible. The bi-partisan support for this bill is a great example of what Congress can accomplish when the needs of patients are our first priority.”### share: f t 12/19/12 12:20
04.26.2013	Growth in the first quarter was weaker than expected in large part because of a decline in the growth rate of business investment in new buildings, equipment, and software. Without strong business investment, millions of Americans will remain unemployed “Economic growth remains tepid due to weak business investment,” says BradyWashington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis that real gross domestic product (GDP) increased at an annual rate of 2.5% during the 1st-quarter 2013.“Growth in the first quarter was weaker than expected in large part because of a decline in the growth rate of business investment in new buildings, equipment, and software. Without strong business investment, millions of Americans will remain unemployed,” Brady said. “The good news is that our economy grew at an annual rate of 2.5% during the 1st-quarter of this year. The bad news is that even at this rate, the economy may never get back to the growth of an average recovery. In fact, we would end the decade with an even larger growth gap than we already have,” Brady said.“Even with the economy growing at an annual rate of 2.5% in the first quarter, the growth gap in real GDP compared to other post-World War II recoveries stands at $1.2 trillion. The annualized growth rate during this recovery remains an anemic 2.1% over 15 quarters compared with the average of 4.4% during other recoveries over the same period.”Brady noted that, “The bounce back in today’s report also reflects an artificially depressed fourth quarter report driven by a shift of defense spending from the fourth quarter into third quarter of 2012. Without that shift, today’s report would have shown real GDP increasing by only 1.9%.” An analysis* by the Joint Economic Committee staff found that absent the shift of those expenditures, third quarter 2012 real GDP would have grown at a rate of 2.5% instead of the reported 3.1% and fourth quarter 2012 real GDP would have grown at a rate of 1.6% instead of the reported 0.4%.“If we want to get Americans back to work, we must get government out of the way of our free enterprise system. We must put our fiscal house in order by reducing federal spending relative to the size of the economy and getting the Federal Reserve out of the business of allocating credit. We must enact pro-growth tax reform and eliminate unnecessary regulations that hamper innovation and job creation,” Brady concluded.*Explanatory Note: Real Defense Consumption for services during the first and second quarters averaged $195.5 billion (2005$). In the third quarter, those expenditures jumped to an annualized $216.5 billion (2005$) before declining to $174.3 billion (2005$) in the fourth quarter. Those two quarters was $195.4 billion (2005$). Eliminating this apparent timing shift would result in lowering third quarter 2012 real GDP by $21.1 billion (2005$) and raising fourth quarter 2012 GDP by a corresponding amount.### share: f t 4/26/13 11:15
04.24.2013	This assurance that America will pay its debts shouldn't be the focus of partisan attacks. Neither should guaranteeing that our seniors get their full Social Security benefits. share: f t ‘Guaranteeing that America will pay its debts & seniors get their Social Security should be a bi-partisan priority,’ says BradyWashington, DC – The House Ways and Means Committee today amended and then passed the Full Faith & Credit Act which takes any worry of American default off the table. It also guarantees that Social Security benefits are fully paid if the President and Congress don’t agree on a debt ceiling solution later this summer. The bill, which directs the Treasury to fully pay all U.S. bonds with interest when they come due, was approved out of committee on a party-line vote with every Democrat opposing.“I’m disappointed that committee Democrats would vote for America defaulting on its debt, knowing how damaging that would be to our struggling economy and our dangerous deficits,” remarked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the committee. “This assurance that America will pay its debts shouldn’t be the focus of partisan attacks. Neither should guaranteeing that our seniors get their full Social Security benefits.”“I hope my Democratic colleagues understand how dangerous flirting with default would be. I hope they reconsider and put partisanship aside to make sure America’s obligation to honor our debts is never brought into question,” concluded Brady.###
04.23.2013	Let's take default off the table so the President and Congress can't hide any longer from the serious financial problems facing Medicare and Social Security. share: f t Takes Default Off Table, Focuses Washington On Saving Social Security & MedicareWashington, DC – Ahead of an expected late summer showdown on the debt ceiling, on Wednesday the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee will consider legislation to direct the U.S. Treasury to make all federal debt payments and interest, including guaranteeing that Social Security benefits are paid in full, if the debt ceiling is not raised in August. The Full Faith and Credit Act is introduced by Republican Congressman Tom McClintock of California. “This assures investors that America will make good on its debt while focusing Washington on the true problem – the real risk of another downgrade of America’s credit rating if the President and Congress don’t take sensible, credible steps to save Social Security and Medicare for the long term,” says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the committee, who supports the bill.The federal government is generating more taxes and revenue than at any time since 2007, notes Brady, “so there is plenty of money to pay the debt if the ceiling is not raised on time. A default would raise interest rates and likely push America back into a double-dip recession.”Brady says he is most concerned about avoiding a second downgrade of America’s credit rating.“Let’s take default off the table so the President and Congress can’t hide any longer from the serious financial problems facing Medicare and Social Security,” concluded Brady. “We’ve got to act now, together, to preserve these important programs for the long haul or risk a second downgrade of America’s credit – which will increase the nation’s deficits and make credit more expensive for families, small businesses and local governments.”###
04.22.2013	Rather than staggering the furlough days so that someone at the IRS is always there to assist taxpayers every working day, the President has once again decided to inflict the maximum amount of pain on Americans via the modest sequester cuts he came up wi Brady asks, ‘Who will be there for the taxpayers?’Washington, DC – The Internal Revenue Service is telling its employees to be prepared for the agency to shut down for at least five Fridays between May and August. IRS Acting Commissioner Steve Miller sent a memo to employees stating that every worker would be furloughed for at least five days and the dates chosen so far are May 24 (the Friday before Memorial Day), June 14 (Flag Day), July 5, July 22 and Aug. 30 (the Friday before Labor Day) with two additional days possible in August or September. “Rather than staggering the furlough days so that someone at the IRS is always there to assist taxpayers every working day, the President has once again decided to inflict the maximum amount of pain on Americans via the modest sequester cuts he came up with last year,”stated Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior Republican member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has oversight of the IRS. During these days, all public-IRS operations will be shut down, including toll-free numbers, and local Taxpayer Assistance Centers. "When small business owners have questions about payroll taxes or a family is wondering where their refund check is, someone needs to be on the other end of the telephone to answer those questions.”While some taxpayers may be hoping this means fewer audits, Brady noted that acting IRS Commissioner Miller testified in the House earlier this month that he expects collection of tax revenues to drop considerably and taxpayer calls to go unanswered. “Sadly, this is more political stunting from this White House, which refuses to believe this bloated federal government can take even a two cent cut in spending. Tell that to families who haven’t seen their income increase, though their tax burdens at the local, state and federal levels certainly have.”### share: f t 4/22/13 15:45
04.19.2013	This measure has one simple goal--- to force the FAA to stop playing politics with our local airports and to put a priority on air safety, said Brady. "We didn't have to dig very far to find idle funds from years past that would be better spent on t share: f t New House Bill to "force the FAA to stop playing politics” with Local AirportsWashington-Texas Congressman Kevin Brady has teamed up with a bipartisan group of over 45 lawmakers to force the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to uphold its responsibility for operating local contract air traffic control towers.The Air Traffic Control Tower Funding Restoration Act reverses the FAA’s political decision to close 149 contract towers, including Conroe’s Lone Star Airport. The money to keep the towers open will be transferred from unused funding sitting idle in other accounts within the agency. "This measure has one simple goal--- to force the FAA to stop playing politics with our local airports and to put a priority on air safety,” said Brady. "We didn’t have to dig very far to find idle funds from years past that would be better spent on the local towers.”Under the modest sequester savings, the FAA was told to cut 5% from a budget which has increased 40% since 2001. Instead of cutting waste, the FAA chose to close contract towers and send air traffic controllers home on furloughs.###
04.19.2013	How does this -- or the President's recent budget proposal's unprecedented number of higher aviation taxes and fees – make our skies safer? asked Brady who says the White House could direct the FAA to cut wasteful spending instead of putti share: f t Long Waits at Gates and Closed Runways is about Inflicting Maximum PainWashington, DC– The Department of Transportation announced late Thursdaythat Air Traffic Controller furloughs and runway closings will begin on Sunday, because they have “done everything to find a billion dollars.” “They want you to wait at the gate while they hold press conferences to convince you there is no possible way this government can save some of your hard-earned tax dollars,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “The truth of the matter is that instead of cutting consultants, conferences, executive travel and staff parties out of their rapidly growing budget, they made a cynical, political decision to close runways and send air traffic controllershome. Why? So fliers will feel maximum pain over these minor sequester savings.”“How does this -- or the President’s recent budget proposal’s unprecedented number of higher aviation taxes and fees – make our skies safer?” asked Brady who says the White House could direct the FAA to cut wasteful spending instead of putting families and business travelers in an unnecessary holding pattern.# # #
04.18.2013	Cyber attacks from foreign governments steal American jobs and our intellectual property, said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. "I'm convinced a voluntary approach that places a priority on protecting our personal information is so much better than th share: f t Voluntary Quick Response To Prevent Foreign Nations from Stealing Business Secrets & Personal InformationWashington, DC– Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to protect America’s business computer infrastructure from cyber attacks as countries like China continue to attempt to infiltrate U.S. networks to steal trade secrets and personal information.The revised Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) allows American businesses to voluntarily share cyber attack signatures as they are happening with the government and other businesses who might be attacked. The shared cyber attack information occurs at the base 0 and 1 source code level.“Cyber attacks from foreign governments steal American jobs and our intellectual property,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “I’m convinced a voluntary approach that places a priority on protecting our personal information is so much better than the White House proposal that mandates who and how businesses are forced to share data with the federal government.” “American businesses need to be able to move quickly to defend themselves from cyber attacks and inform similar businesses so they can defend themselves in real time,” added Brady. “All this happens at the computer code level in a nanosecond.” ###
04.18.2013	Normally, I'm excited to celebrate any holiday, but this one is a sad reminder that Americans are sending far too much of their hard-earned money to Washington to be spent on a bloated, wasteful budget. share: f t Americans working longer to keep less of their paycheck, says BradyWashington, DC – Today, Thursday April 18, marks the day in 2013 that the nation as a whole has earned enough money to pay the total tax bill for the year, including taxes at the federal, state and local levels. According to the Tax Foundation, which named this day ‘Tax Freedom Day’, Americans this year will pay $2.76 trillion in federal taxes, $1.45 trillion in state taxes, equaling almost 30% of American income. “Normally, I’m excited to celebrate any holiday, but this one is a sad reminder that Americans are sending far too much of their hard-earned money to Washington to be spent on a bloated, wasteful budget,” commented Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways and Means committee. “What’s worse is that this year’s ‘Tax Freedom Day’ comes a full five days later than it did last year. That means that Americans worked even longer to keep less of their own money.”“It’s wrong that Americans have to work almost a third of the year just to satisfy the tax collector, and Republicans in Congress are working to change that,” Brady continued. “Comprehensive tax reform, which will allow us to lower tax rates for every taxpayer, is a priority for Republican leadership on the Ways and Means Committee.”While the recent mild sequester cuts decreased the rate of spending in Washington, Brady believes that more can be done and that the President’s call for higher taxes is the wrong solution. “The bottom line is that Washington has a spending problem. Everyone knows it. It’s time to cut the waste and allow taxpayers to bring home more of their paycheck.”###
04.16.2013	This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Federal Reserve, so it's appropriate for Congress to assess the economic record of the Federal Reserve, Brady said. "This is especially timely since America is experiencing a troubling growth gap and face share: f t Joint Economic Committee Hearing to Assess the Federal ReserveWashington DC—Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, announced today that on April 18, 2013 the Joint Economic Committee will hold a hearing on the Federal Reserve, its attempts to use monetary policy to bolster the U.S. economy, and the overall effectiveness of the Federal Reserve. The hearing will convene on April 18th at 9:30 a.m. in room 216 of the Hart Senate Office Building.“This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Federal Reserve, so it’s appropriate for Congress to assess the economic record of the Federal Reserve,” Brady said. “This is especially timely since America is experiencing a troubling growth gap and faces lower potential economic growth for the future.” “The Federal Reserve is taking unprecedented actions to attempt to drive employment gains in the absence of effective economic policies from the White House. Since it’s becoming increasingly clear there are limits to what monetary policy can achieve in the pursuit of the dual mandate, it’s time to realistically assess the Federal Reserve’s ability to close the growth gap and discuss refocusing the Fed toward a sound dollar as a foundation for certainty and long-term economic growth,” the Chairman stated.The following persons are scheduled to testify:The Honorable John B. Taylor, Ph.D., Mary and Robert Raymond Professor of Economics at Stanford University and the George P. Shultz Senior Fellow in Economics at the Hoover Institution.Dr. Adam S. Posen, President, Peterson Institute for International Economics***The Hearing will appear on Channel 15 on the Senate Network and Channel 17 on the House Network.###
04.16.2013	Taxpayers shouldn't subsidize drug use. If you're on drugs, you're not job ready, said Brady, who leads the Health Subcommittee in Congress. "I applaud the leadership of Senator Williams, and we will continue to push the White House to follo share: f t Williams joins Congressman Brady in support of drug screening as condition for unemployment compensationWashington, D.C. – Texas State Senator Tommy Williams, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, will testify today at a House Ways & Means Human Resources Subcommittee hearing in support of allowing states to require drug screening as a condition for receiving unemployment benefits.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, who helped successfully remove a 40-year federal ban on drug screening and testing unemployment recipients and allow for the first ever pro-work program waivers during last year’s negotiations on extending federal unemployment benefits, will join Williams at the hearing. Senator Williams has moved bipartisan legislation through the State Senate in Austin, which would require drug screening for some individuals receiving unemployment benefits – a move that Brady strongly supports. “Taxpayers shouldn’t subsidize drug use. If you’re on drugs, you’re not job ready,” said Brady, who leads the Health Subcommittee in Congress. “I applaud the leadership of Senator Williams, and we will continue to push the White House to follow the law and issue regulations on drug testing so that states like Texas can implement the law.”Brady is also a strong advocate of the waiver policy and encouraged Texas state officials to apply for one of ten federal waivers under the pilot program. Subsequently, their initial application was denied by the Department of Labor (DOL), citing a lack of guidelines at the time. Today’s appearance by Brady at the hearing will be his second. Last year, after DOL finally issued application guidelines, he appeared to question DOL’s Assistant Secretary Jane Oates about the lengthy requirements included in the guidelines, which have since completely stifled all interest in the waiver policy. When questioned last year about what would happen if no state applied for a waiver, DOL’s responded by saying that “after a few months” they would “go back to the drawing board” if the program did not move forward. Brady claims the agency continues to needlessly stall. “Texas has already been recognized by the White House for their innovative ways to get Texans back to work. But again, the White House needs to apply the law and allow states like Texas to continue that innovation when it comes to getting the unemployed back to work making good wages rather than collecting benefit checks.”###
04.12.2013	This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Federal Reserve, so it's appropriate for Congress to assess the economic record of the Federal Reserve, Brady said. "This is especially timely since America is experiencing a troubling growth gap and face share: f t Joint Economic Committee Hearing to Assess the Federal ReserveWashington DC—Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, announced today that on April 18, 2013 the Joint Economic Committee will hold a hearing on the Federal Reserve, its attempts to use monetary policy to bolster the U.S. economy, and the overall effectiveness of the Federal Reserve. The hearing will convene on April 18th at 9:30 a.m. in room 216 of the Hart Senate Office Building.“This year marks the 100th anniversary of the Federal Reserve, so it’s appropriate for Congress to assess the economic record of the Federal Reserve,” Brady said. “This is especially timely since America is experiencing a troubling growth gap and faces lower potential economic growth for the future.”“The Federal Reserve is taking unprecedented actions to attempt to drive employment gains in the absence of effective economic policies from the White House. Since it’s becoming increasingly clear there are limits to what monetary policy can achieve in the pursuit of the dual mandate, it’s time to realistically assess the Federal Reserve’s ability to close the growth gap and discuss refocusing the Fed toward a sound dollar as a foundation for certainty and long-term economic growth,” the Chairman stated.The following persons are scheduled to testify:The Honorable John B. Taylor, Ph.D., Mary and Robert Raymond Professor of Economics at Stanford University and the George P. Shultz Senior Fellow in Economics at the Hoover Institution.Dr. Adam S. Posen, President, Peterson Institute for International Economics###
04.10.2013	How can the White House say it cares about seniors but it refuses to help save Social Security and Medicare unless it gets higher taxes from local small businesses? share: f t Chairman Brady responds to the President’s Budget ProposalWashington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, upon release of the President’s budget said, “The President’s budget submission is a step in the wrong direction. How is it fair to taxpayers that the President’s budget never balances – that Washington never has to live within its means? How can the White House say it cares about seniors but it refuses to help save Social Security and Medicare unless it gets higher taxes from local small businesses – which has nothing to do with these important programs? And how is it fair to those without jobs to stay the course that’s created the weakest economic recovery in our lifetime?”“We need to close the growth gap that this President’s economic policies have created. More political platitudes masquerading as economic policy will not help grow the economy, jobs or the paychecks of working Americans.”###
04.08.2013	The people of the United States have lost a great friend. My deepest sympathies go to her family and the people of the United Kingdom to whom she provided such magnificent leadership. share: f t Washington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement:“I am saddened,” Brady said, “at the passing of former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.”"Mrs. Thatcher, as she liked to be called, brought Britain back from the brink of financial ruin. She restored Britain's confidence in itself and enabled it to play a role of significant leadership in the world.”“She demonstrated for all to see how, together, a sound currency and policies that spur economic growth can restore prosperity to a great nation.”“The people of the United States have lost a great friend. My deepest sympathies go to her family and the people of the United Kingdom to whom she provided such magnificent leadership.”###
04.05.2013	America's troubling growth gap continues to widen, with the nation missing more than 4 million jobs and nearly $1.3 trillion from our economy as a result of the weak Obama recovery. share: f t Washington, D.C.– The Bureau of Labor Statistics today reported that in March the economy added 95,000 private sector payroll jobs and the unemployment rate edged down to 7.6%. U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said “America's troubling growth gap continues to widen, with the nation missing more than 4 million jobs and nearly $1.3 trillion from our economy as a result of the weak Obama recovery. Unless the President changes course, a lot of families will continue without a breadwinner and millions of Americans will remain without hope of finding a job."Brady also noted that the civilian labor force declined by 496,000. As a result, the labor force participation rate decreased by 0.2 percentage point to 63.3 percent. “We have not seen this low level since Jimmy Carter.”"That's a red flag. It is unsatisfactory progress by any measure. We know that massive government stimulus, higher taxes and Washington red tape aren't working. Isn't it time to enact real pro-growth policies that encourage job creation and investment?" According to JEC analysis, the growth gap between the number of private jobs generated by an average post-war recovery and the current recovery expanded to 4.2 million. The current recovery remains the weakest in terms of real GDP growth among all recoveries that lasted more than one year since World War II.If growth during the Obama recovery had merely been average, real GDP would be 9.2% or nearly $1.3 trillion higher.###
03.22.2013	FAA needlessly closing local towers to inflict political pain. Congress may have to act to force right priorities. share: f t FAA needlessly closing local towers to inflict political pain Congress may have to act to force right prioritiesConroe-- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, whose district includes one of the regional FAA Towers slated for closure, issued the following statement today about the FAA's announcement."The FAA is needlessly jeopardizing air safety, punishing communities and shutting down cost-effective towers to inflict political pain rather than cutting frivolous spending in their bloated budget. “I applaud local leaders in Conroe and Montgomery County who stepped forward to provide the funding needed to keep the tower at Lone Star Executive Airport open after April 7th. If the FAA refuses to get its priorities right in a modestly smaller federal budget, then Congress will do it for them." ###
03.22.2013	On its third anniversary it's becoming clear that health care is growing even more expensive, millions of Americans are expected to lose their insurance at work, many businesses will be forced to drop their plans and our elderly face a shortage of doc share: f t Not too late to replace with affordable, patient-centered care, says Health ChairmanWashington, DC – Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways & Means Health Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the third anniversary of the Affordable Care Act:“The President's new health care law is frightening for many patients, small businesses, and local doctors and hospitals. On its third anniversary it's becoming clear that health care is growing even more expensive, millions of Americans are expected to lose their insurance at work, many businesses will be forced to drop their plans and our elderly face a shortage of doctors and higher Medicare costs - all due to the new law.""Regrettably, with the president and Democrats controlling two-thirds of Washington, it's an uphill battle to change it. But if those who defend this new law truly cared about getting government out of the examination room and lowering health costs for families and local businesses, they would quickly join with Republicans to replace it with patient-centered health care that's affordable and allows Americans to keep the coverage they have and want, especially senior citizens." ###
03.21.2013	If you like bigger government, fewer jobs and a budget that never balances, the Democrat budget is the one for you, noted Brady. share: f t Brady supports Republican balanced budget Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed a budget today that changes the direction of Washington’s spending, rejecting a Democratic alternative that proposed new stimulus spending and $1.2 trillion of higher taxes on families and Texas energy businesses. On a vote of 221 to 207, the House approved a budget that balances within ten years, repeals ObamaCare and begins taking steps to make Medicare and Social Security sustainable over the long-term.“With many American families and young people struggling through the weakest economic recovery of our lifetime, the best thing we can do to create more jobs is to force Washington to address the issues that are holding our economy back,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “That means fixing our broken tax code, living within our means, repealing the President’s job-killing health care law and taking the steps necessary to save Social Security and Medicare for the long haul.”A recent study by noted economists at the Hoover Institution estimate the Republican budget would boost the U.S. economy by a significant 1% next year, adding new jobs and $1,500 to the disposable income of average Americans. The budget would shrink the size of Washington to its historical levels and reduce the public debt of the nation.Brady, a long time member of the Republican Study Committee, also supported the budget proposed by House conservatives that balances in four years. That measure, which Brady calls a “tough love budget”, failed on a vote of 104 to 132.The House budget now goes to the Senate which has not passed a budget in nearly four years. Like their counterparts in the House, Senate Democrats have proposed a spending plan that calls for higher taxes, weaker defense and a growing national debt.“If you like bigger government, fewer jobs and a budget that never balances, the Democrat budget is the one for you,” noted Brady.###
03.20.2013	Further quantitative easing by the Fed won't close America's troubling growth gap, nor will it lower unemployment. Why the Fed continues to tie extraordinary monetary actions to the unemployment rate, when it has stated repeatedly one cannot impa Extraordinary Monetary Policy Cannot Close The Growth GapChairman Brady responds to the FOMC minutesWashington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today criticized the Federal Reserve’s decision to continue its policy of “quantitative easing.”“Further quantitative easing by the Fed won’t close America’s troubling growth gap, nor will it lower unemployment. Why the Fed continues to tie extraordinary monetary actions to the unemployment rate, when it has stated repeatedly one cannot impact the other, is beyond me.” The growth gap refers to: (1) the difference between the rates of economic growth and job creation in an average post-war recovery and in the current recovery, and (2) the possibility that the ability of our economy to grow in future may be permanently lower.In the 3½ years since the recession ended, real GDP increased by 7.5%. During the comparable period in other post-war recoveries, real GDP increased by an average of 17.5%. Similarly, the U.S. economy has generated 6.4 million private sector jobs since the cyclical low in February 2010. In the comparable 36 months, an average recovery would have generated 10.4 million private jobs.***Rep. Brady is the author of H.R.1174, the Sound Dollar Act, which would focus the Federal Reserve on maintaining price stability. He is also the author of H.R.1176 to create the Centennial Monetary Commission which would evaluate Fed policies for their effectiveness in monetary policy since its founding, 100 years ago.### share: f t 3/20/13 14:58
03.15.2013	Our current workforce development system is confusing and unwieldy, making it hard for workers to get the assistance they need. share: f t 50 separate job training programs is too many; first step is to consolidate and evaluate, says BradyWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Supporting Knowledge and Investing in Lifelong Skills (SKILLS) Act, legislation that will streamline America’s workforce development system, focusing on 35 programs that are either ineffective or duplicative.“Companies are finding it difficult to fill positions with skilled labor, so there is no question that America needs to invest in the training and development of our workforce. But we need to be smarter about how we do it,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Our current workforce development system is confusing and unwieldy, making it hard for workers to get the assistance they need. The SKILLS Act will cut through the bureaucracy and roadblocks, eliminate waste, and improve support for workers looking for a job and business owners looking to hire. It’s just plain common sense.”###
03.15.2013	This year's Report finally acknowledges that the current recovery is the weakest since 1960, Brady said. "Moreover, the report concedes the potential growth rate for the U.S. economy has also slowed." share: f t Chairman Brady responds to the Economic Report of the PresidentWashington, D.C.– Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said the following about the annual Economic Report of the President, released today by the Council of Economic Advisers: “The good news is that the Economic Report takes one step forward by acknowledging the ‘Growth Gap’ between this and other recoveries. Unfortunately, the report takes two steps back by once again seeking to shift the blame for the economy’s anemic performance to others. This is also the latest that the report, required by law, has been submitted to the Joint Economic Committee in the report’s 67 year history.”“This year’s Report finally acknowledges that the current recovery is the weakest since 1960," Brady said. "Moreover, the report concedes the potential growth rate for the U.S. economy has also slowed."“The President needs to look in the mirror and recognize that his policies: ObamaCare, Dodd-Frank, anti-energy development, the growing burden of regulations on businesses, and his never ending pursuit of higher taxes have put a restrictor plate on the U.S. economy.”“It is true that since private sector jobs bottomed in February 2010, 6.4 million jobs have beencreated. Unfortunately, that’s the equivalent of 4.1 million fewer private sector jobs created on average in other post-World War II recoveries lasting longer than a year. And since February 2010, the number of people added to food stamps is 8.2 million, 1.8 million more than the number of jobs created.”“This president has four more years on his contract with the people. Now is the time for him to put partisanship and trendy slogans aside and show real economic leadership. Together, we can devise bipartisan strategies that can produce the economic growth we need to close the growth gap. I, for one, stand ready to put everything else aside to achieve that. I call upon the president to do the same."
03.14.2013	A sound dollar is the best foundation for creating jobs and growing America's economy. And, frankly, keeping prices stable over the long term is truly the only outcome that monetary policy can impact. share: f t Protecting purchasing power of the dollar best foundation for economic growth, says JEC ChairmanWashington DC— U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), chairman of the U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee, today re-introduced the Sound Dollar Act to reform the Federal Reserve. He also introduced the Centennial Monetary Commission Act which - on the 100th anniversary of the Federal Reserve - establishes a national bi-partisan commission to review the institution’s conduct of monetary policy over the past century and make recommendations to Congress on its future role. “In order to preserve the strongest economy in the world throughout the 21st Century, we need to get the role of the Federal Reserve right,” Brady said. “A sound dollar is the best foundation for creating jobs and growing America’s economy. And, frankly, keeping prices stable over the long term is truly the only outcome that monetary policy can impact.” The Sound Dollar Act, which has 51original sponsors in the House, focuses the Fed on a single mandate of price stability to grow the economy, imposes credit neutrality on the Fed by limiting future purchases to U.S. treasuries except in emergencies and expands the voting membership of the Federal Open Market Committee to all 12 regional presidents to ensure all voices of the U.S. economy are heard.“We need to make sure that the Federal Reserve is representing the interests of the entire nation, not just those of Washington and Wall Street.”Other reforms include speeding the public release of FOMC transcripts from five years to three, closing the Exchange Rate Stabilization slush fund and returning $50 billion to the U.S. treasury and placing the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau back under regular congressional funding and oversight.“A Fed independent of political interference is critical. Since subsidies die hard in Washington,it’s important to limit future Fed purchases to U.S. treasuries, remove the politically charged CFPB from Fed funding and make sure the entire U.S. economy is represented in decisions regarding open market actions,” said Brady.Of the monetary commission, which Brady is introducing with representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio and Marcia Blackburn of Tennessee, “The purpose is to conduct a full and objective evaluation of the Federal Reserve System with an eye to making recommendations to modernize the Federal Reserve and its operations. Since this year marks the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Federal Reserve System, it’s the right time to examine the Federal Reserve and our monetary system to make sure they’re operating in the best interests of the nation.” Original cosponsors of the Sound Dollar Act, in alphabetical order: Rep. Michele Bachmann, Rep. Kerry Bentivolio, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, Rep. Jo Bonner, Rep. Jim Bridenstine, Rep. Paul Broun, Rep. Michael Burgess, Rep. Tom Cole, Rep. Mike Conaway, Rep. Sean Duffy, Rep. Jeff Duncan, Rep. Bill Flores, Rep. Virginia Foxx, Rep. Trent Franks, Rep. Louis Gohmert, Rep. Trey Gowdy, Rep. Sam Graves, Rep. Bill Huizenga, Rep. Lynn Jenkins, Rep. Bill Johnson, Rep. Sam Johnson, Rep. Walter Jones, Rep. Jim Jordan, Rep. Jack Kingston, Rep. Raul Labrador, Rep. Doug LaMalfa, Rep. Doug Lamborn, Rep. Leonard Lance, Rep. James Lankford, Rep. Billy Long, Rep. Frank Lucas, Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer, Rep. Cynthia Lummis, Rep. Kenny Marchant, Rep. Tom McClintock, Rep. Jeff Miller, Rep. Markwayne Mullin,Rep. Mick Mulvaney, Rep. Randy Neugebauer, Rep. Steve Pearce, Rep. Tom Petri, Rep. Joe Pitts, Rep. Reid Ribble, Rep. Todd Rokita, Rep. Steve Scalise, Rep. Lamar Smith, Rep. Marlin Stutzman, Rep. Mac Thornberry, Rep. Tim Walberg, Rep. Randy Weber, Rep. Rob Woodall. Original cosponsors of the Centennial Monetary Commission: Rep. Jim Jordan, Rep. Marsha Blackburn, Rep. Gus Bilirakis, Rep. Bill Flores, Rep. Trent Franks, Rep. Bill Huizenga, Rep. Jack Kingston, Rep. Cynthia Lummis.###
03.13.2013	Rather than encourage more dependency of the government, the bi-partisan reforms of 1996 successfully encouraged people to be more independent and self-sufficient. The House acted forcefully today to protect these reforms and block the White House from we share: f t Requirement to work is key to getting people off welfare, says BradyWashington, DC-- The House of Representatives voted 246 to 181 today to block White House efforts to roll back bi-partisan welfare reforms that cut welfare rolls by half and increased incomes for single mothers living in poverty.Last year the Obama administration attempted to bypass Congress by signaling it would grant waivers to allow states to weaken the requirement that welfare recipients work toward new job skills, training or employment. “Rather than encourage more dependency of the government, the bi-partisan reforms of 1996 successfully encouraged people to be more independent and self-sufficient,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). “The House acted forcefully today to protect these reforms and block the White House from weakening the work requirement in the future.”Brady notes that states already have the flexibility to substitute other activities for work, including temporary employment, attending training programs or pursuing new educational skills.“Let’s not return to the bad, old days when those on welfare could read a self-help book, keep a journal or go for a walk as a substitute for work. Every taxpayer who works knows that’s not work.”
03.08.2013	The number of Americans forced to subsist on food stamps to avoid hunger has grown faster than those finding jobs under President Obama. That's not an economy built to last. That's an economy that is struggling, said Brady. share: f t Food Stamp Families Growing Faster than JobsWashington, D.C.– As the February jobs numbers were released, U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, challenged President Obama’s re-election claim of ‘an economy built to last’. The Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) reported today that the economy added 246,000 private sector payroll jobs in January and the unemployment rate fell to 7.7%.“The number of Americans forced to subsist on food stamps to avoid hunger has grown faster than those finding jobs under President Obama. That’s not an economy built to last. That’s an economy that is struggling,” said Brady. The White House frequently boasts that the U.S. economy has created 6.4 million private sector jobs since jobs bottomed out in February 2010. But more than 8 million American families were added to the food stamp rolls through November 2012 (latest data). That’s a ratio of 1.4 new people on food stamps for every new private sector job created from the jobs bottom through November 2012. “When President Clinton left office only one in 16 Americans needed food stamps. Under President Obama, it’s grown to nearly one in six. That’s the pain that families endure under the weakest economic recovery in modern times,” said Brady. President Clinton, working with Republicans in Congress, shrunk the size of government and balanced the budget, while reducing the number of food stamp recipients by 10 million, Brady noted.“President Obama could learn a thing or two from the last Democratic president. Growing the government isn’t growing the middle class in America,” said Brady. “The sign of a compassionate government isn’t more Americans needing food stamps. It is more Americans working in well-paying jobs so they no longer need assistance.”###
03.06.2013	I joined fellow Texas Congressman Bill Flores to testify about sequestration via video conference before the Texas House of Representatives Select Committee on Federalism and Fiscal Responsibility, Chaired by Texas State Representative Brandon Creighton. share: f t I joined fellow Texas Congressman Bill Flores to testify about sequestration via video conference before the Texas House of Representatives Select Committee on Federalism and Fiscal Responsibility, Chaired by Texas State Representative Brandon Creighton.
03.06.2013	This bill not only locks in lower spending levels for Washington, it shores up military spending, insists on full border security and denies $1 billion the president sought to implement his new health care law, said Brady, who leads the Health sub-commi share: f t Protects Military & Border Security; Cuts Funds to Implement ObamaCare by $1 billionWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure to fund the government for the rest of the year that is in line with the new, lower spending levels enacted March 1. The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration."This bill not only locks in lower spending levels for Washington, it shores up military spending, insists on full border security and denies $1 billion the president sought to implement his new health care law," said Brady, who leads the Health sub-committee in Congress.America's 1.4 million active-duty troops and 843,000 reservists are protected in the House-passed legislation. It increases funding for critical medical research on combat-related illnesses and injuries and key VA construction projects like local clinic expansions. It also includes a 1.7% pay raise for the military.“We don't need delays in defense construction projects, but there are many line items - like attending conventions and unused dollars - that can and must be cut,” added Brady. “By saving from projects and programs the government doesn’t need, we can minimize the impact on national security interests.”The bill reduces funding for the three key agencies tasked with implementing ObamaCare - the IRS, Health & Human Services and Center for Medicare-Medicaid Services.It also increases key funding for veterans, embassy security and federal prisons, while mandating 34,000 detention beds to prevent any need to release prisoners or criminal illegal aliens awaiting deportation hearings. It continues the pay freeze for members of Congress and federal employees.###
02.19.2013	The Joint Economic Committee serves the important role of advising Congress on policies that affect the U.S. economy, including identifying roadblocks to stronger growth, said Brady. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), incoming Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today welcomed new and returning Senators and Representatives to the Committee.“The Joint Economic Committee serves the important role of advising Congress on policies that affect the U.S. economy, including identifying roadblocks to stronger growth," said Brady. "There has never been a more important time for the JEC to play an active, thoughtful role in recommending economic policies to boost jobs along Main Street, grow the economy, and scrutinize the unprecedented actions of the Federal Reserve."“Each of our new and returning members bring with them a unique background and understanding of the problems the American people face in their efforts to find a job, keep a job, and get ahead. I look forward to working with Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), who will be serving as Vice Chairman of the Committee this Congress and I am hopeful that we can set an example for bipartisan cooperation that serves the American people.”New members to the Joint Economic Committee in this Congress are Representatives Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Richard Hanna (R-NY) and John Delaney (D-MD). New members from the Senate are Senators Roger Wicker (R-MS), Christopher Murphy (D-CT), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM).Returning members of the Committee include Representatives Justin Amash (R-MI), John Campbell (R-CA), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), and Loretta Sanchez (D-CA). Returning members also include Senators Dan Coats (R-IN), Mike Lee (R-UT), Pat Toomey (R-PA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN, Vice Chairman-designate), Robert Casey (D-PA), Bernard Sanders (D-VT), and Mark Warner (D-VA). ###
02.14.2013	Affordable energy driven by the free market is key to America's economic growth. A fairer, simpler tax code that encourages a wide variety of energy production here at home, without picking winners and losers, is critical, said Brady. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Dave Camp of Michigan, today announced the formation of eleven separate Tax Reform Working Groups that will focus on comprehensive tax reform. Republican Congressman Kevin Brady (The Woodlands, TX) was named chairman of the Energy working group.“Affordable energy driven by the free market is key to America’s economic growth. A fairer, simpler tax code that encourages a wide variety of energy production here at home, without picking winners and losers, is critical,” said Brady.The Energy Tax Reform Working Group will review and research current laws that affect the energy sector by talking to various stakeholders, customers and colleagues. The findings will be presented as a report to the full Committee by April 15th.Brady noted that the fact-finding group would work as a bi-partisan organization. “I look forward to working with my Democrat colleague from California, Mike Thompson. Both parties recognize that a simpler, fairer tax code would be a benefit to families and industries alike. Together, we can build a framework that leads to fundamental tax reform.”###
02.12.2013	What's lacking in this speech is a true pro-growth agenda. The President has never made jobs his top priority – as a result the unemployment rate is still higher than when he took office four years ago. share: f t Why are ‘guns, green cards and global warming’ more important than jobs for 22 million Americans still struggling to find work?Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, issued the following statement after President Obama’s fifth State of the Union address:“On the birth date of our 16th President, it’s clear Barack Obama is no Abraham Lincoln. President Obama seems to enjoy dividing this nation, while President Lincoln was devoted to healing it.“What’s lacking in this speech is a true pro-growth agenda. The President has never made jobs his top priority – as a result the unemployment rate is still higher than when he took office four years ago.“That’s heartbreaking for the 22 million Americans who can’t find a full-time job in the struggling Obama recovery. Watching the president’s speech they had to be asking themselves “Why are guns, green cards and global warming a higher priority than getting people like me back to work?”On taxes, Brady said: “The President has it wrong. Republicans are going to close tax loopholes – the question is do we close them so the President can spend more or do we close them to lower rates across the board for taxpayers. The House Ways & Means Committee is committed to creating a fairer, simpler tax code this year that lowers rates and helps America’s economy grow again.”On trade, the recent chairman of the Trade Sub-committee said: “I’m pleased the President listened to me and other trade leaders in America who have been pushing the White House to launch serious talks with Europe on a 21st century trade agreement that can grow both our economies.”###
02.07.2013	We want to make sure that seniors can see doctors who they know, and who know them. It is critical to make sure that we have a Medicare system that is responsive to our Medicare beneficiaries, and that is how we need to approach this process. share: f t Upton and Camp Lead Effort, Calling on Stakeholders to Work with Lawmakers to Help Develop Permanent Solution that is Fiscally Responsible and Free of PoliticsWASHINGTON, DC –Today, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI), Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joe Pitts (R-PA), Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), and Health Subcommittee Vice Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D. (R-TX) provided an update on the committees’ collaborative efforts to repeal the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula and advance a permanent solution for the long-troubled Medicare physician payment system.The two committees both focused extensive energies during the 112th Congress to establish a foundation for SGR repeal and payment reform. As noted in the framework for reform, in addition to numerous hearings, both committees, under the leadership of Upton and Camp, pursued significant stakeholder outreach to identify innovative payment and delivery models being developed in the private sector. The extensive stakeholder input received to date was used to develop the principles for SGR Repeal and Payment Reform. The framework, which underscores that the proposal will be fiscally responsible and will not add to the deficit, also lays out a three-phase process for repeal and reform. Outlining the process, the committee leaders asked interested parties to provide feedback on the outline by February 25, 2013. Comments can be sent to SGRComments@mail.house.gov. The proposal seeks to:PHASE 1: Repeal the SGR and provide a period of predictable, statutorily-defined physician payment rates;PHASE 2: Reform Medicare’s fee for service (FFS) physician payment system to reward physicians who provide high quality care; andPHASE 3: Build upon the improvements made in Phase 2 by also rewarding physicians who deliver efficient care.Commenting on the work the two committees will be doing together Chairman Upton and Subcommittee Chairman Pitts said, “For far too long, the only thing certain about the Medicare physician payment system has been uncertainty about the future. As a result, the complexity of the problem and financial burden on taxpayers has snowballed. With valuable input from doctors, stakeholders, and our colleagues in the GOP Doctors Caucus who have a first hand understanding of the issue, we have developed a thoughtful framework to repeal SGR and reform the current system. And we are dedicated to ensuring these reforms will not add a dime to the deficit. Members on both sides of the aisle recognize the need to act, and we look forward to bipartisan collaboration on long-term solutions.”Chairman Camp stated, “For too long, doctors and the Medicare patients they serve have been trapped in an outdated and inefficient one-size-fits-all payment system that penalizes doctors who deliver high-quality, efficient, and effective care. It is time to bring Medicare into the 21st century. Achieving that goal will be an all hands on deck effort, and we want all the stakeholders – doctors, patients, and others – to be a part of that process. They’ve already begun sharing their ideas and experiences, and I hope they will reflect on this initial set of principles and continue that dialogue.”Emphasizing the bipartisan desire to reach a solution, Ways and Means Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady added, “We want to make sure that seniors can see doctors who they know, and who know them. It is critical to make sure that we have a Medicare system that is responsive to our Medicare beneficiaries, and that is how we need to approach this process. Democrats and Republicans alike have come to the table with their own ideas and that input will be critical to ensuring that the solution we reach puts doctors and patients before politics. I am confident that working together we will get there.”Health Subcommittee Vice Chairman Michael C. Burgess, M.D., Co-Chair of the Congressional Health Caucus and a member of the Doctors Caucus, which has long sought a permanent solution to the flawed SGR payment formula, added, “Ensuring that the SGR is repealed and replaced with a payment system that preserves access to care continues to be one of my top priorities. This proposal is a serious step in that direction, and I thank Chairmen Upton and Camp for their leadership. Our committees have and will continue to work together between the committees of jurisdiction, across the aisle, and with the provider community in this effort.”Enacted in 1997 as part of the “Balanced Budget Act,” the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) has been a source of continued concern for physicians who serve Medicare beneficiaries and for the beneficiaries themselves. Long recognized as an imperfect solution that rewards quantity of services rather than the quality of care, Congress has repeatedly implemented a temporary “Doc Fix” to prevent substantial Medicare reimbursement rate cuts, which could result in fewer physicians being able to serve Medicare patients.Click here to view the framework. FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE February 7, 2013Michelle Dimarob (Ways and Means) - 202-226-4774Debbee Hancock (Energy and Commerce) - 202-226-4972
02.06.2013	American families and businesses have to live within their means, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. "Why shouldn't Washington?" share: f t American taxpayers deserve no less, says House Economic LeaderWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed The Require a Plan Act (H.R. 444) to require the White House to produce a budget that balances within at least ten years or provide an additional plan that achieves that goal.“American families and businesses have to live within their means,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “Why shouldn’t Washington?”Brady believes it is only a Republican House that will hold President Obama accountable to taxpayers to submit a plan to balance the federal budget.“The media won’t hold the President accountable. The Democrat Senate certainly won’t – they haven’t produced a budget themselves in nearly four years. American taxpayers and our children who will be burdened by all this debt deserve a balanced budget plan from the White House.”###
02.05.2013	Up through New Year's Day, President Obama repeatedly promised the American people a ‘balanced' approach to our deficit crisis, proposing $3 in spending cuts for every $1 of new tax revenue. Well, Mr. President, you got your higher taxes, now whe “Where are the savings, Mr. President?” Brady asksWashington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following statement today on President Obama’s speech calling for higher taxes to put off automatic spending cuts known in Washington as “sequester”:“Up through New Year’s Day, President Obama repeatedly promised the American people a ‘balanced’ approach to our deficit crisis, proposing $3 in spending cuts for every $1 of new tax revenue. Well, Mr. President, you got your higher taxes, now where is the $1.8 trillion in new savings you promised?”“And if you’re hoping to double count the cuts signed into law long ago during the last debt ceiling debate, forget it. Taken together, by my count you owe the American people nearly $3 trillion in savings to our bloated, wasteful federal budget. Instead of new taxes, when will you keep your promise to cut spending?”“When will you join with House Republicans to insist that Washington tighten its belt as so many families and small businesses already have?”### share: f t 2/5/13 12:32
02.01.2013	America is missing nearly four million jobs that should have already been created if President Obama's economic leadership had merely been average. share: f t Obama Recovery Still Missing Nearly 4 Million Jobs Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), incoming Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said context is needed in today’s Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) report that the economy added 166,000 private sector payroll jobs in January and the unemployment rate rose to 7.9%.“This is Obama’s new normal: a run-in-place jobs report and unemployment stuck near 8 percent," says Brady. "America is missing nearly four million jobs that should have already been created if President Obama's economic leadership had merely been average." The White House now boasts it has added six million private payroll jobs over the past 35 months. But according to Joint Economic Committee staff analysis using the president's own metrics, an average economic recovery would have added 10 million private payroll jobs over the same period - and a Reagan-style recovery would have added more than 13 million new jobs."Bottom line: over 22 million Americans still can't find a full-time job. The job market should have fully recovered by now, but it hasn't due in large measure to President Obama's failed economic leadership," added Brady.According to the BLS, America has nearly three million fewer private payroll jobs today than in January 2008 when private sector employment peaked. 12 million people remain unemployed, 8.0 million can only find get part-time work, and another 2.4 million have quit looking for work.Brady also noted the irony that today’s jobs report comes one day after the termination of the President’s “Jobs Council.”“Apparently he believes their work is done. Twenty two million Americans without full-time jobs might disagree."
01.30.2013	Economic contraction can't be blamed simply on sequestration threat or fiscal cliff, says Brady. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseContact: Al Felzenberg: JEC Office Desk (202-226-2490)January 30, 2013Work Cellular: (202-695-5797)Look Behind the Fourth Quarter Numbers“Economic contraction can’t be blamed simply on sequestration threat or fiscal cliff,” says GOP economic leaderJan 30 2013U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Chairman-designate of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on the new economic data which shows America’s economy shrank for the first time in three and a half years:"This stunning contraction can’t be blamed simply on defense spending ahead of sequestration or uncertainty over the fiscal cliff. It’s a case of acceleration.Defense spending was accelerated into the third quarter of last year which artificially boosted the economic growth ahead of the November election to 3.1%. As a result, the fourth quarter sagged into a 0.1% decline. Sequester is not to blame - defense spending in the last two quarters averaged about the same as defense spending in the first half of the year.Similarly, business investment accelerated into the fourth quarter due to market concerns about the President’s higher taxes in the new year. That means the economy will likely suffer in the first quarter of 2013.The bottom line is that America’s economy continues to struggle primarily due to President Obama’s penchant for political brinkmanship and the pervasive uncertainty caused by his focus on higher taxes, regulation and ObamaCare. While consumer spending and government spending are both above pre-recession levels, business investment is not. That’s the missing ingredient in this anemic recovery.This president’s recovery ranks near the bottom in Main Street job creation. We are still three million jobs below the pre-recession peak of January, 2008 and 3.8 million jobs short of an average recovery. The President has no one to blame for that but his own poor leadership."NOTE: Real GDP has grown at an annual rate of 2.1% over the past 14 quarters. The average growth rate over a comparable period for the nine other post-World War II recoveries was 4.7%. Real GDP is $1.3 trillion lower than it would be if this recovery had matched the average of recoveries since WWII.Joint Economic Committee staff analysis estimates that in order for President Obama to meet just the average recovery rate of his predecessors, the U.S. economy would need to grow at a rate of 5.5% for the rest of his presidency.
01.25.2013	CMS oversees billions of dollars and the health care of millions of seniors. These serious inaccuracies seem to be the norm, not the exception. Seniors deserve accurate information in order to make the best possible choice for their health care. share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJanuary 25, 2013Michelle Dimarob, Sarah Swinehart202-226-4774 Camp, Brady Seek Answers on HHS Data Errors Washington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) wrote Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sebelius regarding serious concerns over inaccurate HHS health care data. The data was being provided by CMS to the independent Government Accountability Office (GAO) and seniors looking for information on their Medicare private health plan options. GAO previously identified multiple occurrences of inaccurate information including:CMS reported to GAO that 20 Medicare cost contracts operate in the Medicare program, 15 of which are open to new enrollment. Upon further review of the data, GAO discovered that one of these 15 plans was not accepting new enrollees and another plan had been closed to new enrollment for over four years; andThe Medicare Plan Finder – a tool to help seniors find private health plans – contained inaccurate information about plan availability.CMS’ track record of inaccuracies also raises many concerns about whether the organization will be able to accurately establish the new health care “exchanges” established under ObamaCare. If CMS is unable to present accurate data for just 15 Medicare cost contracts, how can it be expected to present accurate information in dozens of Exchanges for many more health plans?Camp and Brady stated, “CMS oversees billions of dollars and the health care of millions of seniors. These serious inaccuracies seem to be the norm, not the exception. Seniors deserve accurate information in order to make the best possible choice for their health care. This also raises serious questions as to how CMS plans on administering the government-run health care programs established under ObamaCare. It is our job to conduct oversight so they will address and correct these issues.”###
01.23.2013	Since the Republicans took control, the House has passed a budget every year that seeks to address unsustainable spending and foster a pro-growth environment in our faltering economy, stated Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic share: f t Budgets Must Lay Out a Vision of GrowthBrady, “Unsustainable spending must be addressed”Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass legislation that suspends the debt ceiling for three months and forces the Senate to create and pass a budget, something the Democrat-controlled chamber has neglected to do for four years. If either the House or the Senate fails to pass a budget in that time period, the Members’ paychecks will be withheld until a budget is produced.“Since the Republicans took control, the House has passed a budget every year that seeks to address unsustainable spending and foster a pro-growth environment in our faltering economy,” stated Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “It’s time for the Senate to do the same.”“Clearly, America will pay its debts,” Brady continued. “We always have and this vote today will make it more difficult for those who choose to be melodramatic about the debt ceiling in order to gain political points to continue to do so.”President Obama’s request to have a permanent unlimited debt ceiling was rejected by House Republicans. “There is absolutely no chance that will occur,” Brady made clear. “The debt ceiling is a constitutional prerogative of the House and Senate and a helpful tool to use in order enact spending reforms.”Brady believes that another downgrade to America’s credit rating is almost assured due to the federal government’s debt and spending. “To avoid this happening again, it is imperative that we get our nation’s fiscal house in order. That won’t happen until the White House and the Democrat-controlled Senate work with House Republicans to enact serious, bi-partisan reform to entitlement programs, the true drivers of our debt.”###
01.21.2013	I heard more of the same rhetoric dividing Americans based on their success and pursuing an extreme agenda of global warming, gun control and more spending that's not paid for. share: f t Washington, DC– Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s Second Inauguration."On this inauguration day it's important to congratulate America on yet another peaceful transition that concludes a hard-fought presidential election.“I did not hear the President commit to working with Republicans to solve America's most pressing challenges: the urgent deficit crisis and the need to move quickly to save Social Security and Medicare. “I heard more of the same rhetoric dividing Americans based on their success and pursuing an extreme agenda of global warming, gun control and more spending that's not paid for.“For those of us who predict another downgrade of America's credit rating because the President refuses to help get the country's financial house in order, it was disappointing."
01.18.2013	This is a simple principle: no budget, no pay. America is in the middle of a deficit crisis, yet the Senate has ducked its budget duty for nearly four years, says Brady. "For most Americans, if you don't do your job you don't get paid. Welcome t share: f t U.S. House Short-Term Debt Ceiling Proposal Tells Senate "No Budget, No Pay"‘Spending cuts must come first,’ says BradyWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives will take up a measure next week that forces the Democrat-controlled Senate to pass its first budget in nearly four years before Congress takes up any measure to consider a long-term increase in America's debt ceiling. The bill authorizes a temporary three month debt limit increase and withholds pay for members of the Senate or House if they fail to pass a budget out of their respective chambers.The Republican-controlled House has passed a budget each of its years in control which puts America back on the path to a balanced budget and to begin paying down its record debt.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, supports the measure, saying, “Washington must deliver spending cuts before any increase in America's borrowing limit is considered.”“This is a simple principle: no budget, no pay. America is in the middle of a deficit crisis, yet the Senate has ducked its budget duty for nearly four years,” says Brady. “For most Americans, if you don't do your job you don't get paid. Welcome to the real world, Senate.”Brady added, “President Obama is demanding a blank check to put America deeper in hock. But I believe Washington has a spending problem – let's tackle that first. Moving the debt ceiling debate back three months not only assures investors that America will pay its bills, it also forces President Obama and the Senate to address spending cuts ahead of it.” Brady believes federal automatic spending cuts set to kick-in on March 1 and funding for the federal budget that expires March 27th are prime opportunities for getting America's financial house in order. Both are critical, he says, to prevent another downgrade of America's credit rating.“Before the President borrows more money to fund the federal budget, shouldn't we know what the budget is going to be first?”
01.16.2013	I want our children safe at school and our Second Amendment rights protected at home. The President's proposals do neither. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseJanuary 16, 2013Tracee Evans(202-374-9377)Shana Teehan(202-740-0334) Congressman Kevin Brady Responds to President Obama's Gun Control CampaignPresident’s Proposals Won't Keep Children Safe at School or Protect 2nd Amendment RightsWashington, DC -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the President's gun control announcement."I want our children safe at school and our Second Amendment rights protected at home. The President's proposals do neither."Strong gun control laws in Connecticut didn't stop the Sandy Hook tragedy - and won't stop others like them in America. In fact, areas with the most restrictive gun laws historically suffer from higher rates of gun violence."As for the 23 executive orders, why did it take the deaths of school children, movie-goers and an attack on a congresswoman before the President finally acted to enforce existing gun laws?"Why did it take the President so long to keep guns away from the mentally ill, insist agencies work together and fill the ATF leadership vacancy?"I also question the wisdom of turning doctors into law enforcement investigators, and I can't help but notice that the President's coziest Hollywood contributors - who profit greatly from creating America's culture of violence - got a complete pass."That's disappointing for parents like me who fight to shield our children from the relentless, in-your-face violence on TV screens and at the movies."###
01.15.2013	Health care reform shouldn't drive up costs, encourage businesses to drop coverage for their workers or interject more government in between you and your doctor. The President's new heath care law, unfortunately, accomplishes all three, said Bra share: f t For Immediate ReleaseJanuary 15, 2013 Brady Tasked with Tackling America’s Health Care CrisisNew Ways & Means Health Subcommittee Chair to Fight for Free Market Solutions Washington, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee announced that U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas will chair the influential Health Subcommittee for the 113th Congress. Congressman Brady is a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and recently led the Trade Subcommittee in its successful efforts to open up new countries for sales of American goods and services.“Health care reform shouldn’t drive up costs, encourage businesses to drop coverage for their workers or interject more government in between you and your doctor. The President’s new heath care law, unfortunately, accomplishes all three,” said Brady. “As we develop an aggressive health care agenda, certainly a priority must be to build support for repealing specific ObamaCare provisions that increase cost and drag down hiring along Main Street. I intend to examine and shine a bright public light on the unprecedented host of new regulations and taxes in 2013 and their impact on patients and local health care providers. It’s important, as well, to look ahead four years in the future to make sure a free market health care system is preserved to compete with the new government-run system.”Brady anticipates working closely with the Energy & Commerce Committee to unveil legislation permanently repealing Medicare’s Sustainable Growth Rate formula and replacing it with a reliable physician reimbursement formula that rewards quality. He hopes to push structural reforms this session to preserve Medicare and reduce Medicare fraud. “In the House we’ve taken the lead to preserve Medicare with solutions that offer quality and choice to future seniors, and gives us a better bang for our health care dollar. The time to preserve Medicare is now.”The administrative overhead in health care – estimated to be as high as 25-30% - is unacceptable, says Brady, who supports marshalling the best free market ideas and technology in a national initiative to lower overhead costs to 10% within five years.“Can you imagine the benefits to America’s health care system if we can significantly shift paperwork costs to patient care and cost savings?” asks Brady.###
01.04.2013	I hope this is not the new normal. The economy is simply not growing fast enough to generate significant improvement in the job market. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Chairman-designate of the Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s Employment Report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) that the U.S. economy added 168,000 private sector payroll jobs in December 2012 and that the unemployment rate remained steady at 7.8% during the month.“I hope this is not the new normal. The economy is simply not growing fast enough to generate significant improvement in the job market,” Brady said. “The Obama recovery is three million jobs behind the average for post-war recoveries at this point and our GDP should be $1.2 trillion stronger if we had the right economic leadership from the White House.”Brady continued, “We are still lacking faster growth driven by private business investment in new buildings, equipment and software. That’s the missing ingredient that will accelerate job creation, boost wages, and help Congress address our nation’s deficit crisis. Why does the White House continue the same policies that produce the same weak results?”###
01.01.2013	In addition to blocking Congress from getting a pay raise, the major overriding reason for passing this bill was to reverse the New Years Day tax hikes on Texas families and small businesses – and to once and for all make lower taxes a permanent rea share: f t New Year’s Day tax hikes reversed; Brady challenges President to cut spendingWashington, D.C. – As the clock struck midnight on New Year’s Eve, millions of Americans saw their taxes go up. By late that same day, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to reverse the tax hikes on 99% of Americans and even went further - making permanent the Bush-era tax cuts for millions of families and small businesses. The American Taxpayer Relief Act – which cuts taxes $3.6 trillion this decade - also ended the threat of the Alternative Minimum Tax expanding to hit 27 million more Americans and permanently protects most family owned farms and businesses from the controversial Death Tax. "In addition to blocking Congress from getting a pay raise, the major overriding reason for passing this bill was to reverse the New Years Day tax hikes on Texas families and small businesses – and to once and for all make lower taxes a permanent reality for 99% of Americans. That goal – to permanently lower taxes – is one I’ve fought for continually in the 11 years since the Ways & Means Committee first successfully passed the Bush era tax cuts. From this day forward it will no longer take an act of Congress to keep Uncle Sam from taking more of your money,” said U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the tax cutting House Ways and Means Committee and incoming chairman of the Joint Economic Committee.“On the Ways & Means Committee we’ve fought long and hard to end forever the threat of the alternative minimum tax spreading to middle-class families and to permanently protect family-owned farms and businesses from the immoral Death Tax,” added Brady. “As the leader of the fight in Congress to bury the Death Tax once and for all, this was an important step forward.”The measure – which blocks the executive order by President Obama to give pay raises to Congress – was backed by Ways & Means Committee leaders Dave Camp, Paul Ryan and Kevin Brady. Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform who maintains the Taxpayer Protection Pledge, tweeted “The Bush tax cuts lapsed at midnight last night. Every Republican voting for the Senate bill is cutting taxes and keeping his/her pledge.”Said Brady, “Now President Obama and the Democrats who control 2/3 of Washington have no more excuses. They can no longer ignore the urgent need to tackle the deficit crisis, fix our broken tax code and find a way to save Social Security and Medicare for every generation. These are the real challenges facing our country.” Brady helped lead House Republican efforts this summer to extend all current tax rates, cut federal spending and take necessary steps to save Social Security and Medicare – two important seniors programs that are on shaky financial ground.# # #
12.21.2012	Doing nothing while every taxpayer in my congressional district gets hit with a major yearly tax hike of $3,600 starting New Years Day just isn't acceptable. And if we go off the fiscal cliff – even for a short while – our Republican goal It’s the President’s Turn to Avoid Fiscal Cliff, Says Brady Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives couldn’t muster enough votes on Thursday for legislation that cut $3.9 billion in taxes for families and small businesses, while replacing harmful national defense cuts with $217 billion of additional new savings from other wasteful federal spending. President Obama had threatened to veto the measure, while calling for higher taxes and higher spending.It’s now the President’s turn to act, says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas).“Republicans understand the urgency of the fiscal cliff and we acted a long time ago – last summer – to prevent all tax hikes, cut spending and force Washington to address its deficit crisis,” said Brady. “President Obama has done very little beyond press conferences and campaign events. Since Democrats run two-thirds of Washington, the responsibility now falls squarely on the President and Senate Democrats to come back after Christmas and produce legislation that can pass both houses of Congress.”“Next week we’ll see if the President is serious about avoiding the fiscal cliff. I hope I’m wrong, but my guess is that President Obama sees political gain from driving America off the cliff and blaming Republicans for it.” Brady thinks it is irresponsible to go over the fiscal cliff on New Year’s Day because of the automatic tax hikes and the damage to the economy, but he believes that would be preferable to a bad agreement that raises taxes, fails to address Washington’s spending crisis and ignores pressing needs like tax reform and saving Social Security and Medicare.“I’m not going to accept a bad deal for American taxpayers and small businesses just to avoid the fiscal cliff.”Beyond damage to the economy, Brady’s interest in the fiscal cliff is even more focused on avoiding tax increases on families and small businesses in Texas, as well as pushing forward with fundamental tax reform.“Doing nothing while every taxpayer in my congressional district gets hit with a major yearly tax hike of $3,600 starting New Years Day just isn’t acceptable. And if we go off the fiscal cliff – even for a short while – our Republican goal of fixing this broken tax code gets even more difficult. Those are my main concerns.”In addition to tax cuts and spending cuts, included in the House Republican package was a permanent block of scheduled increases in the marriage penalty, death tax, capital gains and dividends rates. Republicans wanted to permanently allow small businesses to immediately deduct certain business purchases up to $800,000.The bill also permanently prevented the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) from capturing an additional 27 million American taxpayers – many of them middle class families paying this additional tax for the first time. The bill was endorsed by numerous small business organizations and certified by Americans for Tax Reform as a net tax cut.Brady took issue with an angry White House who also protested that House Republicans refused to extend $134 billion of stimulus spending that President Obama had earlier slipped into the tax code.“President Obama’s stimulus failed. For the sake of our deficit crisis, we can’t afford more special interest spending that’s not paid for,” said Brady.Brady also expressed confidence that preventing a wholesale tax increase o share: f t 12/21/12 12:43
12.21.2012	This measure we helped push through the House Ways & Means Committee has one main goal -- protect vulnerable seniors from identity thieves, said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, a co-sponsor of the bill. share: f t H.R. 1509, the Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2012, Passes U.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC– The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill Thursday evening to make it more difficult for identity thieves to target seniors. H.R. 1509, the “Medicare Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2012,” established cost-efficient procedures to keep Medicare recipients Social Security numbers from being accessed on their Medicare cards.“This measure we helped push through the House Ways & Means Committee has one main goal -- protect vulnerable seniors from identity thieves,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, a co-sponsor of the bill. “Currently more than 50 million Medicare cards display the recipient’s full Social Security number. By removing this number from being displayed, coded or embedded on Medicare cards we can make it harder for ID thieves to steal senior’s retirement savings and good credit.”This bipartisan bill, funded through the Medicare Improvement Fund, has 50 cosponsors and requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study moving to “smart card technology” for Medicare beneficiary cards and provider membership cards.“Millions of Americans have experienced the invasion of privacy that is ID Theft, including over a million senior citizens,” added Brady. “President Bush directed all federal agencies to develop plans to reduce the use of Social Security numbers. Medicare is a program that has repeatedly passed on making changes to protect its nearly 50 million senior recipients. This bill changes that direction.”###
12.12.2012	By running the same monetary play over and over the Fed can expect the same economic result – a slow, irregular recovery hampered by the White House's obsession with higher taxes, oppressive regulation and a unworkable new health care law. Mor Brady says, “Fed Action is Wrong Prescription for What Ails Economy” FOMC expands quantitative easing to replace Operation TwistWashington, D.C.—Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, today said the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision to expand its quantitative easing by purchasing $45 billion of long-term Treasury bonds, “a continuation of unnecessary and dangerous monetary policy to make up for failed fiscal policy.”Brady continued, “By running the same monetary play over and over the Fed can expect the same economic result – a slow, irregular recovery hampered by the White House’s obsession with higher taxes, oppressive regulation and a unworkable new health care law. More Fed stimulus won’t solve that. In fact, it creates more uncertainty for job creators.”“More troubling is that the FOMC is now telling us the new normal for full employment is a bleak 6 ½ per cent, and they are willing to risk higher inflation to achieve it. This is the wrong prescription for what ails our economy today, and risks our future prosperity.”Rep. Brady is the sponsor of the Sound Dollar Act H.R.4180, which would replace the Fed’s current dual mandate with a single mandate to maintain the purchasing power of the dollar.### share: f t 12/12/12 10:31
12.07.2012	In the 21st Century, time is a trade barrier that can leave American companies less competitive in the global marketplace. My goal is to lower the cost and delays at the border while improving security and enforcement. share: f t Brady Introduces Customs Trade Facilitation and Enforcement Act of 2012Washington, DC - Today, Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) introduced the Customs Trade Facilitation and Enforcement Act of 2012 (H.R. 6642).Chairman Brady stated, “In the 21st Century, time is a trade barrier that can leave American companies less competitive in the global marketplace. My goal is to lower the cost and delays at the border while improving security and enforcement. I am pleased to introduce legislation today that will improve three vital aspects of the Customs mission: modernization, streamlining/facilitation, and enforcement. I am introducing this bill now so we can give stakeholders the opportunity to comment on the legislation. I am committed to moving a bipartisan bill at the earliest opportunity. “Trade is vital to our economic engine, creating jobs and lifting wages here at home,” he continued. “Today, companies that engage in international trade employ more than 50 million U.S. workers, and U.S. trade has quadrupled in the last 20 years and now represents over 30 percent of U.S. GDP. If the United States is to remain competitive, we must do more than lower tariff barriers and open market access abroad. We also must have a more modernized and automated Customs structure to allow that trade to occur as efficiently as possible and in compliance with our laws. This bill would modernize these important tools, particularly the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) and the International Trade Data System. It would require CBP to provide a report on its objectives, plans, and deadlines to justify any change in ACE funding levels. “The sophisticated nature of trade demands better streamlining of Customs processes, particularly for low-risk importers, so the legislation would create new initiatives to allow companies that partner with CBP to improve trade compliance and cooperate above the norm to receive incentives for that cooperation. Moreover, the bill would establish several mechanisms to improve the collection of revenue and enforcement of our laws without jeopardizing legitimate trade. For example, I have included bipartisan legislation introduced by fellow Ways & Means Committee member Dr. Charles Boustany (R-LA) to address evasion and underpayment of antidumping and countervailing duties. “Finally, the bill authorizes funding for the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the International Trade Commission and establishes heightened transparency through reporting requirements for USTR-led interagency programs, including the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center, as well as for USTR’s budgetary and staffing needs,” he concluded.Ways and Means Chairman Camp added, “I welcome the Customs authorization bill introduced by Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady today. This bill is the right approach to facilitate and streamline legitimate trade and ensure that U.S. laws are strictly enforced. A key component of ensuring that our international competitors play by the rules is the bipartisan legislation sponsored by Rep. Charles Boustany to address evasion and underpayment of antidumping and countervailing duties. I look forward to hearing comments from interested stakeholders in anticipation of moving forward next year, and I would like to move forward with bipartisan legislation if at all possible.”Congressman Charles Boustany Jr., M.D stated, "I appreciate Chairman Brady's leadership in moving forward on a Customs Reauthorization bill in 112th Congress. The inclusion of the PROTECT Act is a vital enforcement mechanism that will benefit companies in Louisiana and around the United States. I look forward to working with the Committee to move this crucial legislation through the House in a timely fashion."The bill text can be found here.A section-by-section of the bill is available here.A two page summary of the bill can be read here.###
12.07.2012	At the present rate of private payroll job growth, it will take another 23 months to return to the number of private payroll jobs that we had in January 2008, the pre-recession peak. share: f t Job Creation Still Too Slow, Brady Says.“Uncertainty takes toll on job growth,”JEC incoming Chairman maintains.Washington, D.C.— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman and incoming Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, called today’s news that the U.S. economy added 146,000 nonfarm payroll jobs, including 147,000 private payroll jobs, during November “unimpressive.” He noted that after all the administration’s proclamations that the economy was steadily improving, “the unemployment rate remains too high. And today’s small decline in the unemployment rate was driven by people dropping out of the workforce.”“While Hurricane Sandy certainly had some effect on today’s report, the fact remains that job creation during the current recovery has been anemic,” the Congressman stated. “At the present rate of private payroll job growth, it will take another 23 months to return to the number of private payroll jobs that we had in January 2008, the pre-recession peak.”Brady concluded, “The President’s insistence on hiking taxes on job creators even more and the growing uncertainty over ObamaCare and the resolution of the fiscal cliff will likely result in continuing lackluster job growth and eventual job losses in the private sector. The President needs to drop his ideological crusade against success and help get the economy moving more quickly.”###
11.30.2012	This is important for the Texas economy. Our companies turn down too much work because we don't have the qualified workers to get the job done, which means we lose critical economic growth. share: f t STEM Jobs Act allows top science, math graduates to stay in America to help win global technology race Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved a measure to help American innovators hire top graduates of U.S. universities with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics who were born abroad.“America trained these scientists, engineers and mathematicians. Why shouldn’t Americans get the benefit of their knowledge?” asked Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, who co-sponsored HR 6429, the STEM Jobs Act. “The global technology race will determine if our nation remains the largest economy in world, but it all depends on attracting the best and brightest minds in the world to help America win that race.”The measure is net immigration neutral, providing up to 55,000 visas annually to high-tech workers while ending a controversial ‘visa lottery’ program that awards green cards based on an annual drawing. “This is important for the Texas economy. Our companies turn down too much work because we don’t have the qualified workers to get the job done, which means we lose critical economic growth,” said Brady, who regularly holds roundtable discussions with technology companies in the Houston region and across the state. “Texas innovators have the jobs. Until we can generate more home-grown graduates in these high-tech degrees, let’s take advantage of the qualified candidates already studying here.”###
11.29.2012	Recognizing Palestine as a non-member state is another step backward in peace, another roadblock, another counter-productive act that makes it more difficult to reach a long-lasting resolution. share: f t Washington, DC– U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady has the following statement on today’s controversial United Nation’s vote to recognize Palestine.“I wish I could say another irresponsible, short-sighted and politically motivated vote by the United Nations is a surprise, but when it come to Israel and the Middle East this body continues to hit new lows. Recognizing Palestine as a non-member state is another step backward in peace, another roadblock, another counter-productive act that makes it more difficult to reach a long-lasting resolution. It’s telling also, that President Obama’s last-moment promise of personal engagement was rejected flatly by the Palestinians. I wish we had real leadership on this issue from the White House rather than lectures to our long-time ally Israel.”
11.16.2012	The nation of Israel is our strongest ally in the Middle East, and I have long supported the right of the Israeli government to defend its borders. share: f t Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the escalation of violence between Israel and Hamas:“The nation of Israel is our strongest ally in the Middle East, and I have long supported the right of the Israeli government to defend its borders. It is unthinkable that Hamas is now targeting Jerusalem with their missile attacks, and there is no question as to whether or not Israel should respond with the resources they deem necessary in order to protect their citizens and their homeland. I am confident that the United States government will continue to stand behind our friends in Israel as they defend their sovereignty.”###
11.16.2012	This is a topic that is deeply personal for my wife, Cathy, and I. Two different women found themselves in difficult circumstances and made the life-changing decision to put their child up for adoption. Because of that, Cathy and I have two precious sons, share: f t “Adoption will change a child’s life, and it will change your life.”Washington, DC – Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Woodlands) released the following statement regarding National Adoption Day:“This is a topic that is deeply personal for my wife, Cathy, and I. Two different women found themselves in difficult circumstances and made the life-changing decision to put their child up for adoption. Because of that, Cathy and I have two precious sons, Will and Sean. I can tell you that there is no greater joy than being called Dad and that having a family is the greatest gift of all. Almost 6,400 children are in foster care in Texas, waiting to find a ‘Forever Family’. The need for families to open up their homes to these children is greater than ever, especially for older children, siblings and minorities. I urge you to consider making a choice that will forever change a child’s life and one that will forever change your life.”Every year, the Saturday before Thanksgiving is recognized as National Adoption Day. More than 300 events are held across the nation, including all 50 states, at which families finalize the adoption of children previously in foster care. This Saturday, November 17th, marks the 13th year for Adoption Day, which is part of Adoption Month. More than 40,000 children have found permanent families on this day over the past 12 years, and an additional 4,500 are expected to be adopted this Saturday.###
11.16.2012	This is a jobs bill, pure and simple, said Brady. "It ensures American energy, agriculture, manufacturing, technology and services companies can compete – and win - on a level playing field in Russia." share: f t “This is a jobs bill, pure and simple,” says BradyWashington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives approved permanent normal trade relations with Russia and Moldova, a move that opens the door for more sales of American goods and services to Russia – the ninth largest economy in the world. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a bill sponsor and chairman of the Trade sub-committee in the House, applauded the overwhelming bi-partisan vote for the measure, which now goes to the Senate for consideration. “This is a jobs bill, pure and simple,” said Brady. “It ensures American energy, agriculture, manufacturing, technology and services companies can compete – and win - on a level playing field in Russia.”Without timely passage, says Brady, “American workers and companies will be left behind in this increasingly competitive global economy.”On August 22nd, Russia joined the Worth Trade Organization (WTO), taking steps to improve its trade rules and standards for intellectual property protection. By establishing permanent normal trade relations with Russia, the United States will have access to WTO tools that will help hold Russia accountable to important commitments made as part of its accession package. The bill also includes new tools to continue to exert pressure on Russia to improve human rights.“Russia’s growing economy represents a key market for American companies. This bi-partisan, bicameral bill offers us the chance to create jobs by expanding our exports without making a single trade concession. Expanding international trade and investment is essential to healing this global economic crisis, and a proactive U.S. trade agenda should be a central component.”###You can listen to my floor speech at time marker 59:04.
11.15.2012	No state will benefit more from increased trade with Russia than Texas, says U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), chairman of the Trade sub-committee and a sponsor of the bill. "Texas already leads the nation in sales to Russia, and our sa share: f t Vote this week in the U.S. House means more Texas jobs and sales, says GOP trade leaderWashington, D.C. – On Friday the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on a measure to permanently normalize trade with Russia, a move that means more sales of American goods and services to the world’s ninth largest economy. The bill is especially important to Texas.“No state will benefit more from increased trade with Russia than Texas,” says U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), chairman of the Trade sub-committee and a sponsor of the bill. “Texas already leads the nation in sales to Russia, and our sales are growing faster there than to any other country in the world.””By holding Russia accountable to play by the same trade rules as America, this creates new opportunities for our state’s energy, manufacturing, agriculture, technology and our growing services companies. The bottom line is more sales from Texas and more jobs for Texas.”Texas is the number one state in exports to Russia, with state sales increasing 32% in the last year. Brady predicts lowering Russian trade barriers, protecting U.S. intellectual property and requiring sound science in food safety will allow Texas to compete even more successfully against China, Europe and other nations.A Friday morning vote is expected on H.R. 6156, the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal Act of 2012. The measure allows American companies to take advantage of Russia’s August 22nd accession to the World Trade Organization, holds the White House accountable to make sure Russia abides by its commitments, and creates new tools to pressure Russia on human rights violations. Without passage of the bill, American companies will not be able to compete on a level playing field as other nations, nor have a ready dispute mechanism to challenge trade violations.
11.14.2012	The Congressional Research Service report that top tax rates don't matter to the economy has two glaring flaws that lead to the wrong conclusion, says Brady. share: f t CRS Report based on incomplete and misleading measure of tax burden.Washington, D.C.— U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, released the attached Republican Staff Analysis examining a recent report from the Congressional Research Service (CRS) that claimed there was no statistical relationship between the top statutory tax rate and economic growth.“The Congressional Research Service report that top tax rates don’t matter to the economy has two glaring flaws that lead to the wrong conclusion,” says Brady. “ The report ignores the total tax burden imposed by federal, state, and local governments on job creators and high income earners, and fails to recognize that top rates today capture a dramatically larger share of income than in the past, including roughly half of all net business income taxed at the individual level.”“The top rate is only one feature of our tax system and by itself tells us nothing about the overall tax burden. And since more and more businesses now file as individual tax payers, the impact on the economy is significantly larger.”Brady says Congress and the White House should focus instead on the effective marginal tax rates on labor and capital because “they have the greatest effect on after-tax income which, in turn, affects the incentive to work, save, and invest.”According to this JEC Republican Staff Analysis, from 1945 to 1963 when the top statutory tax rate was 90 percent, only 1 percent of total Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) was affected. Over time the top statutory tax rate has decreased, but the share of total AGI reported by taxpayers subject to the top rate has increased. In 2007, taxpayers subject to the top rate reported 18 percent of total AGI.“The economic effects of the exorbitant top rates in the past are not comparable with the effects of an increase in today’s top rate.” Brady concluded, “Before Congress decides it can raise the top statutory tax rate without adverse effects, Congress needs to get the relevant facts about how taxes really affect the economy.”
11.09.2012	Stronger economic growth will do more to create jobs, increase family incomes, and slash the federal budget deficit than any tax increase or new government spending program, Brady said. share: f t “Focus on growing the economy is imperative,” says BradyWashington, D.C.— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today made the following comments regarding the President’s statement on the fiscal cliff.“Stronger economic growth will do more to create jobs, increase family incomes, and slash the federal budget deficit than any tax increase or new government spending program, “ Brady said.“The election is over. Now Congress and President Obama should focus on getting Americans back to work.”“As we address the looming fiscal cliff, we must avoid any action that would hamper economic growth. Instead, we must accelerate growth. This “slow and low flying” recovery remains the weakest on record since World War II. Real GDP is $1.2 trillion lower than it would be if this recovery had just been average. Strong private sector growth would generate the tax revenues under current rates to reduce our budget deficit substantially. Let’s focus on growing the pie, instead of on how we divide it.”
11.02.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following charts capturing the weakness of the current economic recovery under President Barack Obama. share: f t “Obama Missed 5.4% Stimulus Promise by a Country Mile,” says BradyWashington, D.C.— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following charts capturing the weakness of the current economic recovery under President Barack Obama.The first compares the promises of the Obama stimulus - 5.4% - versus today's unemployment rate of 7.9%. “By every measure, the President failed to meet his promise by a countrymile, and millions of Americans are hurting as a result," said Brady, who points out that the more accurate comparison would put the unemployment rate at 10.6% - almost twice as large as the President promised. “If the labor force participation rate had not declined since January 2009, the unemployment rate would be 10.6%, not 7.9% as reported today. Millions of Americans dropping out of the labor force is another confirmation of the failure of President Obama’s economic policies.”Using President Obama’s own metrics, no president has presided over a worse recovery in terms of private job creation during the last 70 years. “Since the end of World War II, our country has experienced ten economic recoveries lasting more than one year,” Brady noted. “Of those ten recoveries, private sector job creation under President Obama comes in dead last.” Brady concluded, “Had the President’s performance been merely average,3.7 million more Americans would be back to work by now rather than looking for work and worrying how to make ends meet."
11.02.2012	America's poor recovery is not a matter of time; it's a matter of policy. No American president in the past 70 years has made poorer policy decisions on the economy than President Obama. The numbers simply don't lie. share: f t “Budget deficit twice as high, 3.7 million more Americans unnecessarily searching for work as a result of Obama’s poor economic choices,” says GOP economic leaderWashington, D.C.— In a jobs report unaffected by Hurricane Sandy, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today that the U.S. economy added 171,000 nonfarm payroll jobs during October with a gain of 184,000 jobs in the private sector. The unemployment rate increased to 7.9%.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said, "The final economic report of the Obama presidency is in. It’s official – on job creation President Obama's recovery ranks dead last in modern times. His failure over four years to achieve merely an average recovery means 3.7 million more Americans are unnecessarily searching for work this morning and our nation's budget deficit is twice as high as it needed to be.”Brady noted, "America's poor recovery is not a matter of time; it’s a matter of policy. No American president in the past 70 years has made poorer policy decisions on the economy than President Obama. The numbers simply don't lie."Hurricane Sandy did not affect today’s report. The establishment survey, which estimates payrolls jobs, is based on the pay period that includes the 12th of month. The household survey, which estimates the unemployment rate, is based on the week that contains the 12th of the month. Any employment effects of Sandy will appear in next month’s report.Of the ten economic recessions and recoveries lasting more than a year since World War II, President Obama’s ranks last – half as strong as the average recovery. An average recovery would have created 3.7 million additional jobs and a recovery equal to the pace of the Reagan recovery would have generated 6.9 million more jobs over the same period of time.Brady concluded, “The reality is that the drop in the unemployment rate since it peaked in October 2009 at 10% has less to do with the economy improving than it has to do with people losing hope and dropping out of the labor market. If labor force participation had not declined since the President took office, the unemployment rate would stand at 10.6%, not 7.9%. The White House had predicted that the unemployment rate would have fallen to 5.4% by this time with the passage of the President's stimulus plan."
10.31.2012	Washington, DC - Today, Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement upon the announcement by U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk that the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement has entered into force.“I welcome the announcement that the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement will enter into force today. We can now begin to regain the market share for U.S. goods and services lost in Panama during the years this agreement sat on the shelf. While I am pleased that entry into force will occur now, finally implementing an agreement that was completed over five years ago is merely treading water. Much more work needs to be done, such as prompt completion of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and exploration of new market access initiatives for U.S. goods and services abroad.”
10.26.2012	The Republican Staff Commentary notes the anemic growth of the current recovery has contributed to the nation's budget deficits. share: f t Economic growth, not tax increases, is key to addressing current U.S. budget deficitWashington, D.C.— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, released the attached Republican Staff Commentary analyzing today’s Bureau of Economic Analysis’s advance estimate for Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the third quarter of 2012. “This commentary,” Brady said, "makes clear that strong economic growth, rather than ‘feel good economic tinkering’ is a proven key to reducing the budget deficit.”Brady continued, “If President Obama had led merely an average economic recovery rather than the weakest recovery since WWII, this year's federal budget deficit would be cut by more than half. And if Obama had achieved a Reagan-style recovery, the deficit would be two-thirds smaller.”"The President has it wrong. The proven way to get America's financial house in order is not higher taxes and initiating more federal entitlements like ObamaCare, it's higher economic growth and spending restraint."The Republican Staff Commentary notes the anemic growth of the current recovery has contributed to the nation’s budget deficits. At present, the current recovery has a gap of more than $1.2 trillion in real GDP compared with the average of the other nine recoveries since World War II. Revenues in the just ended fiscal year amounted to 15.5% of 3rd-quarter GDP. Prior to the recession, in fiscal year 2007, revenues amounted to 18.2% of 3rd-quarter 2007 GDP.If economic growth had matched the average growth of the other nine recoveries and revenues had returned to their 2007 level as a percent of 3rd-quarter GDP, the budget deficit would have been more than halved. Download the Commentary here.
10.26.2012	If this recovery had simply been average, real GDP would be $1.2 trillion higher and a Reagan-like recovery would have meant an economy $1.6 trillion bigger than it is today. And a bigger economy would mean more jobs and better pay. share: f t Brady says, “Obama’s Policies Standing in the Way of America’s Return to Prosperity.”Washington, D.C.— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, responding to today’s announcement that real gross domestic product grew at an annualized rate of 2.0% during the 3rd-quarter of 2012, cited President Obama’s devotion to big government as the “primary reason” for the delay in America’s return to prosperity. “The lack of economic growth is one of the major factors driving up the national debt,” Brady said.“The Obama recovery remains the worst recovery this nation has witnessed since World War II. Total real GDP has increased a meager 7.2% since the recession ended more than three years ago. The other nine recoveries averaged a total growth in GDP of 16.8%. And Reagan’s recovery added 19.6% to real GDP.”“If this recovery had simply been average, real GDP would be $1.2 trillion higher and a Reagan-like recovery would have meant an economy $1.6 trillion bigger than it is today. And a bigger economy would mean more jobs and better pay.”Brady cited anemic economic growth as a major contributor to the nation’s budget deficit and burgeoning national debt. “The President could have met his pledge to cut the deficit in half if he had put pro-growth policies in place. Under an average recovery, where revenues returned to their 2007 level of 18.2% of 3rd-quarter GDP, federal revenues would be $653 billion higher. That alone would slash the deficit by more than half. A Reagan-style recovery would have produced $722 billion in additional revenues and cut the deficit by two thirds. ”“Instead, the President’s anti-growth, big government agenda has burdened us with four consecutive years of trillion dollar deficits and a $16.2 trillion national debt. We must focus on growing family incomes instead of redistributing them. America needs a growth dividend to create jobs and increase middle class incomes. Americans don’t need sloganeering about ‘fairness.’ ”Brady’s comments on the effect of higher economic growth on the budget deficit are based upon an analysis by the Republican Staff of the Joint Economic Committee.
10.24.2012	Policy uncertainty, especially over the year-end fiscal cliff, is deterring ‘Main Street' business from making job-creating investments, holding back our economy. The Fed's continued QE ‘infinity' only exacerbates this crippling uncertainty. FOMC continues QE3 until mid-2015Washington, D.C.—Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, today said the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision to continue its quantitative easing policy until mid-2015, “heightens the uncertainty threatening our recovery.”Brady continued, “Policy uncertainty, especially over the year-end fiscal cliff, is deterring ‘Main Street’ business from making job-creating investments, holding back our economy. The Fed’s continued QE ‘infinity’ only exacerbates this crippling uncertainty.”“There is little more the Fed can do to help this economy. When trying to remove the roadblocks to our economic growth, monetary policy cannot fix what fiscal policy has created,” Brady said.“The Federal Reserve is exposing taxpayers to enormous future risks stemming from its extraordinary monetary policy actions. The Fed needs to explain exactly what positive effects it expects its actions to have on economic growth and employment. Trillions of dollars of monetary morphine will not fix this economy. Congress and the President need to get our fiscal house in order and end the uncertainty over future policy that is holding our economy back.”Rep. Brady is the sponsor of the Sound Dollar Act H.R.4180, which would replace the Fed’s current dual mandate with a single mandate for price stability. share: f t 10/24/12 14:29
10.05.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today called the Bureau of Labor Statistics' report that the economy added only 104,000 new private sector jobs in September, "another reminder of the failure of President Obama&# share: f t Washington, D.C.-- Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today called the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the economy added only 104,000 new private sector jobs in September, “another reminder of the failure of President Obama’s economic policies. It cements this recovery as the worst in private sector job creation since World War II.”“The decline in the unemployment rate was driven primarily by an increase of 582,000 in the number of workers employed involuntarily in part-time jobs. These workers need and want full-time jobs.”“At this point in the recovery, we should be seeing job gains in the private sector in excess of 250,000 per month and real GDP growth higher than 3.0%. Instead, we continue to see anemic job creation and growth below 2%. That’s stagnation, not recovery,” Brady added.Brady continued, “If this recovery was just average, there would be another 3.9 million private sector jobs, and if it had measured up to the strong Reagan recovery of the 1980s, there would be another 6.9 million private sector jobs.”“While the labor force participation rate increased by 0.1 percentage point in this release, it has declined significantly over the course of the recession. If the participation rate had remained at the level of 65.0% when the unemployment rate peaked at 10.0% in October 2009, the unemployment rate would be 9.8%. People giving up and dropping out of the labor force is not a sign of recovery.”
10.04.2012	Today's actions show that Medicare fraud is a serious problem, says Brady. "In Texas alone, these indictments say these alleged defrauders, including doctors and nurses, submitted $258.3 million in fraudulent claims to Medicare." share: f t “I am appalled by the actions of these health care providers and administrators.”Texas -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, reacted to a nationwide takedown by Medicare Fraud Strike Force operations in seven cities, including Houston and Dallas, that resulted in charges against 91 people, including doctors, nurses and other licensed medical professionals, for their allegedly participating in Medicare fraud schemes involving approximately $429.2 million in false billing.“Today’s actions show that Medicare fraud is a serious problem,” says Brady. “In Texas alone, these indictments say these alleged defrauders, including doctors and nurses, submitted $258.3 million in fraudulent claims to Medicare. I am appalled by the actions of these health care providers and administrators. They, of all people, should know how important Medicare is to elderly, disabled and impoverished Americans.”“Unfortunately, Harris County District Attorney Pat Lykos, Congressman Gene Green and I brought instances of Medicare fraud in Houston to the Obama Administration’s attention three years ago and nothing happened,” Brady added. “While I am pleased that the Administration is finally cracking down on Medicare fraud, today’s action is long overdue. Congress has, and will continue, to spur federal agencies to protect scarce Medicare dollars from fraud.”
09.28.2012	The deadline to apply for a U.S. Military service academy nomination is less than a month away. Applications are due to the Congressman's office by Wednesday, October 24, 2012. share: f t Congressman Kevin Brady seeks exceptional young men and women who wish to serve their countryWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) announces that the deadline to apply for a U.S. Military service academy nomination is less than a month away. Applications are due to the Congressman's office by Wednesday, October 24, 2012."An important duty as a member of Congress is nominating future military leaders to study at America’s service academies,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "These nominations go to truly exceptional young men and women who want to be servant leaders. Those who receive these coveted nominations earn a top of the line education and the opportunity to serve their country as a military officer."To receive a service academy nomination from Congressman Brady, candidates must reside in the Eighth District of Texas, be a United States Citizen, be between the ages of 17 and 23 and unmarried. All applicants must submit a completed and signed Application for Nomination, official high school and/or college transcripts that show GPA and class rank, official SAT or ACT scores and 3 letters of recommendation. A community board will review the applications and interviews all the applicants in November.Interested students who meet the above criteria should contact Congressman Brady's Academy Coordinator Justin Davidson at (936) 439-9532 or justin.davidson@mail.house.gov with any questions concerning the application process. Applications can be found online on Congressman Brady's website at: /academy-nominations/. Congressman Brady serves the 8th Congressional District in Washington, DC. He is the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
09.27.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, called today's poor economic news "further confirmation" that President Obama's policies are preventing the economy from growing. share: f t “Obama’s Policy Failure Confirmed, Again,” Brady saysWashington, D.C.-- The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) today revised downwards its estimate of 2nd Quarter gross domestic product (GDP). BEA estimates that real GDP increased at an annual rate of 1.3% during the 2nd quarter, down 0.4 percentage points from its previous estimate.Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, called today’s poor economic news “further confirmation” that President Obama’s policies are preventing the economy from growing. “Two weeks ago the Federal Reserve issued what amounts to a stinging rebuke of the President’s policies when it expanded its program of quantitative easing. Today’s news just further confirms Obama’s continued policy failure.”“Since the recession ended in June 2009, the economy has grown at less than half the rate of the other nine recoveries since World War II lasting more than a year. Obama’s recovery ranks dead last,” Brady continued.“If the President’s policies had produced just an average recovery,” Brady noted, “total real GDP would have would have increased by 15.2% and would be now be $1.1 trillion higher – a level roughly equal to CBO’s estimate of full employment GDP.”“Main Street cannot continue to endure this President’s policies that grow government, stifle innovation, and slow job creation. We must get America moving again. We must get government out of the way and restore economic opportunity for every American family,” Brady said.
09.26.2012	Residents of states – like Texas -- that don't have income taxes are at a unique disadvantage on April 15, said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. share: f t Reps. Brady, McDermott lead letter to Ways & Means Committee leadershipWashington, DC – Led by Texas Republican Kevin Brady and Washington Democrat Jim McDermott, a bipartisan letter signed by 64 members of Congress seeks tax treatment fairness for the eight U.S. states that don’t have state income taxes.“Residents of states – like Texas -- that don’t have income taxes are at a unique disadvantage on April 15,” said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “While residents of states with state income taxes can deduct those taxes from the federal tax, residents with state sales taxes can’t and that’s simply not fair. That’s why we fought so hard for an itemized deduction for states that fund their services with sales taxes. Unfortunately that deduction has expired.”"I will continue to fight to keep the deduction for state and local sales taxes,” said McDermott. “This deduction is critical in providing tax fairness to thousands of Washingtonians and other Americans living in states with no income taxes. This deduction ensures that citizens in these states are not forced to shoulder a larger share of the federal tax burden."Today’s letter shows the strong support for continuing the sales tax deduction until comprehensive, fair tax reform can be put in place.“Hopefully, this will be the last tax extenders package done by Congress and this inequity will be addressed in comprehensive tax reform,” added Brady.Texas Comptroller Susan Combs released a study showing how extending the deduction saves Texans a projected $1.2 billion a year in Texas or an average of $520 per tax filer. Her study showed that the deductions is vitally important to Texas and is associated with between 15,700 and 25,700 jobs.IRS data showed that 2.1 million Texas filers claimed $4.0 billion in sales tax deductions in 2009, resulting in estimated tax savings of over $1 billion. “Keeping more in a family’s budget is vital to our economy,” concluded Brady.Read the letter here and list of signers here.
09.21.2012	The people of Texas understand that a real 'all of the above' energy plan wouldn't exclude affordable American coal. share: f t Brady says “all of the above” doesn’t mean “except affordable American coal”Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Coal Miner Employment and Domestic Energy Infrastructure Protection Act, a bill that protects American jobs and promotes U.S. energy production by blocking the most extreme elements of the President’s job-killing environmental agenda.“The people of Texas understand that a real ’all of the above’ energy plan wouldn’t exclude affordable American coal,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, “and that Washington needs to stop doing things that hurt the mining industry and our economy.”“This White House’s efforts to rewrite coal mining regulations will cost jobs, lower our nation’s energy production and deny all Americans access to affordable energy right here at home,” added Brady. “That doesn’t make sense in any economy, let alone the Obama economy, which ranks dead last when compared to all other post-World War II economic recoveries.” The bill also prevents a national energy tax from being imposed under the Clean Air Act and requires a comprehensive analysis of the effects of federal environmental regulations on American manufacturing, global competitiveness, energy prices and jobs.
09.20.2012	A welfare system that doesn't work toward breaking the cycle of dependency and poverty fails every American – especially those who are trapped in that terrible cycle, said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady share: f t Keeping Americans trapped in a cycle of poverty and dependency is the wrong path forwardWashington, DC –Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to stop the Obama Administration from ‘waiving’ a key requirement in hallmark, bipartisan welfare reform. “A welfare system that doesn’t work toward breaking the cycle of dependency and poverty fails every American – especially those who are trapped in that terrible cycle,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, who believes this is why a recent poll found more than 80 percent of the American people support the work requirements at the heart of welfare reform and nearly two-thirds in a separate poll believe too many Americans are dependent on government aid.“First and foremost, [welfare reform] should be about ‘moving people from welfare to work,’” as President Clinton said when he signed welfare reform into law. “Turning back the clock to the days where writing in your journal or reading Who Moved My Cheese? counted as work would be a huge leap backwards when the cold hard truth is the longer someone stays on assistance and without employment, the harder it is for them to get hired again,” added Brady.The 1996 welfare reforms are credited with a 57 percent drop in individuals receiving welfare; a 30% drop in the number of single mothers living in poverty; and significant increases in employment and earnings for single parent households.The Government Accountability Office has made it clear that there is no legal precedent for the waivers the Obama administration is pushing. Current law provides limited and explicit waiver authority to the HHS Secretary and today, the House is making a stand to back up the law that no administration has previously claimed it can issue such waivers for. H. J. Res. 118 preserves the critical reforms that have helped lift millions of Americans out of poverty by preventing the administration from implementing its plan to waive work requirements in the 1996 welfare reform law and makes it clear that Congress will not support regulatory efforts to weaken welfare reform.
09.20.2012	In this economy, creating U.S. jobs must be Job #1. The services sector accounts for over three-quarters of U.S. jobs and economic growth. Services jobs pay well. share: f t Opening Statement Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX)Subcommittee on TradeHearing on the Benefits of Expanding U.S. Services TradeThrough an International Services AgreementSeptember 20, 2012(Remarks as Prepared)I want to welcome everyone and extend a special welcome to Ambassador Michael Punke and our private sector witnesses.Let me also recognize Bob Vastine, the longtime President of the Coalition of Service Industries, who stepped down yesterday, and Ambassador Peter Allgeier, CSI’s newly installed President. These are two great leaders. Bob has had a long and distinguished career in government and the private sector, and we have all benefitted greatly from his tremendous expertise and sound contributions. As a co-chair of the Congressional Services Caucus, I join CSI and its members in expressing appreciation for Bob’s work and wishing him well, and in welcoming Peter, with whom I look forward to working (again) in his new role.I would also like to take a moment to acknowledge the service of Viji Rangaswami, the Ways & Means Minority Chief Trade Counsel, who will be leaving the Committee after over a decade of service. She has made important contributions in her work on free trade agreements, our preference programs, our trade remedy laws, Trade Adjustment Assistance, and China policy. Viji, we will miss your considerable expertise, your spirit of compromise, and your good humor. I know that my colleagues join me in wishing you the best of luck.In this economy, creating U.S. jobs must be Job #1. That’s why we’re here today to discuss U.S. services trade. We have a major opportunity at hand. By negotiating an international services agreement that lowers barriers to U.S. services exports, we can rev up a great engine of U.S. job creation. The services sector accounts for over three-quarters of U.S. jobs and economic growth. These are not the stereotypical low-wage, low-skilled jobs that some would scornfully call McJobs. Services jobs pay well. For example, our business services sector – which includes engineering and design, computing and data processing, consulting and other services provided to businesses – pays nearly 20 percent more on average than jobs in manufacturing, averaging nearly $60,000 a year – higher than the national average.With over half a trillion dollars in services exports last year, the United States is the world’s most successful services exporter. In fact, we export more services than the two next largest services-exporting countries combined. Because U.S. service providers are such strong global leaders across many services subsectors, the United States has long generated a large trade surplus in services, which helps offset our deficit in goods trade. Our global competitiveness isn’t automatic, however. U.S. services providers must be able to maintain a global presence to sell our services around the world. Their success depends on having the flexibility to move their data and know-how around the globe. Yet U.S. services providers continue to face major trade barriers. For example, countries impose equity caps, restrict data and capital flow, dictate the nationality of senior officials, and impose discriminatory licensing and regulatory requirements. But if we are able to lower services trade barriers around the world, our U.S. services providers are well positioned to compete and win – and will generate major new U.S. employment. Those employment gains will come not just in the services sector but throughout the U.S. economy. That’s because services trade facilitates all economic activity. EBay recently did an interesting study that found that its online auction services have allowed a vast number of small businesses in the United States to become exporters. And the National Association of Manufacturers and the Farm Bureau have produced two papers – and without objection, I enter them into the record – laying out the many ways their members depend on U.S. services firms’ global operations to design, finance, market, transport, and service U.S. agricultural and manufacturing exports. In short, we focus on services not instead of manufacturing and agriculture but to the benefit of manufacturing and agriculture.As a result, I am very enthusiastic about the work that Ambassador Punke is doing in Geneva on services trade policy. Thanks to his leadership, twenty WTO members accounting for three-quarters of global services trade agreed in July to intensify discussions this fall about an international services agreement. This is an opportunity to extend to a much broader set of countries the highest-standard services rules from our bilateral trade agreements. By pursuing an ambitious agreement that results in real trade gains for participants, we can generate new momentum for trade liberalization and ultimately reinvigorate WTO negotiations. To create incentives for broad membership, the benefits of the agreement should be available to all WTO members that are willing to commit to the agreement’s high standards.An international services agreement holds great promise for U.S. workers and our economy, and I believe it would be met with bipartisan enthusiasm in Congress. ###
09.20.2012	Recently, the President was asked to grade his leadership on the economy and he gave himself an incomplete. I don't know what curve he was grading himself on, but the truth is he's dead last." share: f t Watch Video of Congressman Brady here. The full event is available here.Washington, DC – At today’s House Republican Leadership News Conference, Congressman Kevin Brady laid out the raw facts about President Obama’s Economic record.If the Obama recovery had been just an average recovery, 4.3 million more Americans would be working today instead of looking for work and America would have gained back every job lost in the recession and more. Instead, 7 million more Americans are on food stamps, middleclass paychecks have shrunk and on election day, it's likely fewer Americans will be working than when President Obama took office.“Recently, the President was asked to grade his leadership on the economy and he gave himself an incomplete. I don't know what curve he was grading himself on, but the truth is he's dead last,” said Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “In the ten recoveries since World War II, this President economic leadership is dead last and I don’t know how you spin that.”"It's not an incomplete. It's an F," concluded Brady.
09.14.2012	We can't stand by and allow the White House to keep placing losing bets on risky green energy companies using taxpayer dollars for political gain, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a strong critic of the Obama administration's handlin share: f t Brady Says White House Should Not Be “Betting” on Green Companies with Tax DollarsWashington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted to phase out a controversial Department of Energy (DOE) program that President Obama tapped to subsidize many risky green energy projects that ultimately failed costing taxpayer dollars. This includes the White House’s $535 million taxpayer loan to Solyndra, the California-based solar panel manufacturer that filed for bankruptcy late last year.An investigation by the House Energy and Commerce Committee into the Solyndra loan has revealed that officials in the Obama administration warned the White House about the commercial viability of Solyndra from the outset. Experts believe the U.S. Department of Energy violated federal law in restructuring the terms of the original loan guarantee by subordinating the taxpayer’s interest to that of other private investors. Questions have now been raised that the White House sought to prop up the company – backed by a prominent Obama fundraiser – for political reasons. “We can’t stand by and allow the White House to keep placing losing bets on risky green energy companies using taxpayer dollars for political gain,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a strong critic of the Obama administration’s handling of this program. “Washington bureaucrats aren’t venture capitalists and they shouldn’t be picking winners and losers in the energy sector. We know a little bit about the energy business in Texas and realize that those decisions should be made in the private market, not the White House.“
09.13.2012	Today the U.S House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted to prevent a political shutdown of the federal government, extending funding for the federal government for the next sixth months. share: f t Senate Still Has Not Approved Budget in 3 yearsWashington, DC – Today the U.S House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted to prevent a political shutdown of the federal government, extending funding for the federal government for the next sixth months. The legislation is necessary to keep the government running beyond September 30th, the date that marks the end of the current fiscal year, and it is expected to obtain Senate approval later this month. The spending levels in the resolution are consistent with the Budget Control Act, the long-term deficit reduction plan that Congress enacted in August of last year.“I don’t like the level of spending but I and many other conservatives believe it’s smart to move this beyond the lame-duck session that occurs after the November election. There’s too much business-as-usual spending that gets piled onto the bill in those lame ducks and we simply can’t afford that,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “With the Obama economy ranking as the worst recovery in nearly 70 years and Moody’s threatening another downgrade of America’s credit, a prolonged government shutdown at the end of the year could only make our economic struggles worse,” added Brady. “We need both a significantly stronger economy and strict spending limits if we hope to see a balanced budget again in America, which is what I’m fighting for.”While the House of Representatives has approved a budget each year and approved over $20 trillion in spending cuts, the Senate has not passed a budget in three years.
09.13.2012	As far as job creation goes the Fed is shooting blanks at this point, and the market knows it. share: f t The Fed, three years after recession ended, “is shooting blanks, and the free market knows it.” Washington, D.C.-- Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, strongly disagreed with the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision today to embark upon a new round of quantitative easing by committing to an open ended program to purchase $40 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities per month and extending the expected period of very low interest rates from the end of 2014 until the middle of 2015.“Three years after the recession ended, more Fed stimulus at this late point appears more obligatory than reasoned. It’s also a stunning admission of the failure of President Obama to lead America back to a sustained economic recovery,” said Brady.“As far as job creation goes the Fed is shooting blanks at this point, and the market knows it.”At a time of historically low interest rates, trillions of dollars of excess commercial bank reserves parked at the Fed and with U.S. companies sitting on an equally large amount of cash, Brady says “it’s doubtful that another round of Fed stimulus will have much of an impact on the economy or the dismal employment rate.”Time for Fed to StopThe Fed’s latest action doesn’t address the real roadblocks to economic growth, says Brady, and only adds more uncertainty to the market. “It’s time for the Fed to stop. Chairman Bernanke should look President Obama and Congress in the eye and tell them the Fed has done all it can to boost the economy—and perhaps too much.” “The Fed Chairman,” said Brady, “should state clearly and unequivocally that if the president wants stronger job creation now--before the election--then he should work with Republicans in Congress to remove the tax, spending, regulatory and health care roadblocks jackknifed across America’s economy now--before the election.”“Monetary policy can’t solve what poor fiscal policy has created.” Three-quarters of economists responding in the most recent Blue Chip Economic Indicators survey believe the Federal Reserve should not embark upon additional quantitative easing. Roughly two-thirds of those respondents believe that any such action would have little or no effect.Recent work by Macroeconomic Advisers suggests that a large scale Fed bond buying program would result in an increase in GDP growth of only ¼ of one percent and also only serve to lower the unemployment rate by only about 0.2 percentage points over the next two years.Rep. Brady is the sponsor of the Sound Dollar Act H.R.4180, which would replace the Fed’s current dual mandate with a single mandate for price stability
09.13.2012	Let's not go backwards to the bad old days of welfare where doing your hair, jogging, writing in your diary and reading ‘I'm OK, You're OK qualified as work by some states. That's not work in the real world and it won't get welfare r share: f t Watch the video here.Washington, DC– Today, the House Ways and Means Committee held a markup on legislation to stop the Obama Administration from gutting work requirements for welfare recipients.“Let’s not go backwards to the bad old days of welfare where doing your hair, jogging, writing in your diary and reading ‘I’m OK, You’re OK” qualified as work by some states. That’s not work in the real world and it won’t get welfare recipients back to work,”said Brady as he systematically fact-checked the administration’s claims about their new waiver program.The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has stated that the administration circumvented Congress in waiving the work requirements of the bi-partisan 1996 welfare reform law. Read more on the House Ways and Means Committee website here.
09.13.2012	Let's not go backwards to the bad old days of welfare where doing your hair, jogging, writing in your diary and reading ‘I'm OK, You're OK qualified as work by some states. That's not work in the real world and it won't get welfare r share: f t Watch the video here.Washington, DC– Today, the House Ways and Means Committee held a markup on legislation to stop the Obama Administration from gutting work requirements for welfare recipients.“Let’s not go backwards to the bad old days of welfare where doing your hair, jogging, writing in your diary and reading ‘I’m OK, You’re OK” qualified as work by some states. That’s not work in the real world and it won’t get welfare recipients back to work,” said Brady as he systematically fact-checked the administration’s claims about their new waiver program.The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has stated that the administration circumvented Congress in waiving the work requirements of the bi-partisan 1996 welfare reform law. Read more on the House Ways and Means Committee website here.
09.13.2012	Brady contended that the fact that the Fed seems to be on the cusp of further stimulus as Obama wraps up his first term is more an indictment of the president than anything else."Here we are, more than three years after the recession ended, and the Fed share: f t By Peter Schroeder and Erik Wasson - 09/13/12 06:00 AM ET The increasing likelihood of a new Federal Reserve effort to boost the economy has some Republicans questioning whether the central bank is trying to help President Obama win reelection.Congressional Republicans, wary of the Fed’s recent efforts to stimulate the recovery, said Wednesday that the its political independence could be jeopardized if officials embark on another round of stimulus so close to Election Day.“It really is interesting that it is happening right now before an election,” said Rep. Raul Labrador (R-Idaho). “It is going to sow some growth in the economy, and the Obama administration is going to claim credit.”“I am shocked, just shocked, that politics are going on in this city!” Rep. Tom McClintock (R-Calif.) said sarcastically.On Thursday, the Fed’s policy-setting committee will announce its latest decisions regarding the nation’s monetary policy, followed by a press conference by Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke.With the economic recovery continuing to lag, financial analysts believe the Fed is on the cusp of launching another massive effort to stimulate the economy. Many expect the Fed to unveil a third round of massive bond purchases known as “quantitative easing.” By buying up billions of dollars worth of bonds, the Fed believes it can spur more economic activity by lowering borrowing costs, despite interest rates that are already near zero. Roughly two-thirds of economists surveyed by Bloomberg believe the Fed will announce “QE3” on Thursday.Republicans have harshly criticized similar Fed efforts in the past. Last year, GOP leaders in Congress sent a letter to the central bank urging it to stay on the sidelines, warning its policy choices were encouraging damaging inflation.But Fed officials have held their ground, refusing to rule out further attempts to tackle unemployment and insisting they do not take politics into consideration when weighing their decisions.While many Republicans have criticized the Fed on economic grounds, an announcement about new stimulus — which could send financial markets soaring in the run-up to the election — is likely to bring charges that the bank has partisan aims.“They are the ones who always say they want to remain independent. So they should consider, just how independent are they when they come out, only 50 days before the election, with this?” said Rep. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.).Other GOP lawmakers agreed that action by the Fed could open it to charges of political meddling, even if they stopped short of making those accusations themselves.“Obviously, we are in that political season, but that’s not my bent,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), who has been out front in urging the Fed to refrain from further stimulus.“I hope that the chairman’s going to have the humility and the strength at the same time to say that monetary policy has its limits,” he added.Rep. Rob Woodall (R-Ga.) said he does not personally think the Fed is being political, but predicted the public will question its motivations if major actions are announced.Asked if people are going to ascribe political motivations, he said, “Folks are going to interpret it that way.”If the Fed does opt for further stimulus in the face of vocal opposition, it would be the latest rift in the increasingly tumultuous relationship between the bank and the GOP. Bernanke was a common target on the campaign trail during the GOP primaries. Mitt Romney has similarly urged against further easing and said that if he won the White House, he would not reappoint Bernanke when his term expires in 2014.Those charges come despite that fact that Bernanke is a Republican and was first appointed by President George W. Bush before being reappointed by Obama.GOP lawmakers have pushed several measures this Congress to ramp up pressure on the Fed. The House easily cleared a bill that would require all the Fed’s operations, including its monetary policy deliberations, to be subject to audits by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Roughly half of House Democrats also backed the measure, but its path forward in the Senate is unclear. Republicans also included language pushing for a full audit of the Fed in platform language released at their presidential convention in Tampa, Fla.And several key GOP lawmakers, including Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), chairman of the House Budget Committee and Romney’s running mate, have backed efforts to slash the Fed’s mandate so it only has to focus on controlling inflation. Currently, the central bank’s dual mandate requires it to keep prices stable while maximizing employment, the latter being the driving force behind the Fed’s recent efforts.“We’ve got to change that,” Rep. Tom Price (R-Ga.) said Wednesday.But Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas), who has authored a sweeping bill that would overhaul the Fed, dismissed any suggestions that politics are at play in the Fed’s moves.“They’re responding to their views of the economy, regardless of the timing,” he said. “I don’t think it’s political.”Brady contended that the fact that the Fed seems to be on the cusp of further stimulus as Obama wraps up his first term is more an indictment of the president than anything else.“Here we are, more than three years after the recession ended, and the Fed is still considering stimulating the economy,” he said. “That’s just a sad comment.”
09.13.2012	The Texas Republican and frequent Fed critic said the central bank's earlier stimulus actions have been little help to the sluggish economic recovery. share: f t By ERIC MORATH And SARAH PORTLOCKWASHINGTON—Republicans are calling the Federal Reserve's decision to start a third round of bond buying radical and unprecedented, warning that it could spark increased inflation.The Fed on Thursday said it would buy $40 billion a month of agency mortgage-backed securities on an open-ended basis in an effort to push down interest rates and stimulate the economy. The move is termed QE3, since it is the third time the Fed has pursued the stimulus measure known as quantitative easing.Members of Congress lined up their criticism of the anticipated move even before the Fed's official announcement shortly after 12:30 p.m."The effectiveness of the Fed's unprecedented monetary morphine is rapidly waning," Congressman Kevin Brady wrote in a National Review blog post posted Wednesday evening in anticipation of the third round of stimulus.The Texas Republican and frequent Fed critic said the central bank's earlier stimulus actions have been little help to the sluggish economic recovery. He said job creation is weak because of uncertainty over Washington's economic policies and not because the economy hasn't received enough monetary support."Further expansion in the monetary base would make the Fed's eventual 'exit strategy' more difficult to execute, risking future price inflation," Mr. Brady wrote. Purchasing additional mortgage-backed securities, he said, would again put the Fed in the position of "picking winners and losers in credit markets" and undermines its independence.Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney didn't immediately comment on the Fed move. Last month, in an interview on the Fox Business Network, he said he thought the Fed's previous bond-buying program hadn't been "terribly effective" and said he didn't support the Fed starting a third program.In a speech prepared before the Fed's announcement, Rep. Scott Garrett (R., N.J.) called for Fed reform and said a growing number of his colleagues on both sides of the aisle are concerned about actions taken by the Fed and President Obama's economic policies."The terrible job market and president's poor performance do not excuse Mr. Bernanke's radical and unprecedented actions," Mr. Garrett said.Mr. Garrett is to speak Thursday afternoon at the American Banker regulatory symposium in Arlington, Va. He is chairman of the subcommittee on capital markets and government-sponsored enterprises for the House Financial Services Committee.Mr. Garrett also blasted the hype surrounding the FOMC statement, saying "it is pretty clear we have a problem" when the performance of equity markets hinges on periodic announcements or speeches by Fed members."Market participants should be more concerned about market-based metrics and less concerned about reading the tea leaves of Federal Open Market Committee minutes," Mr. Garrett said.Read more in the Wall Street Journal here.
09.13.2012	Three years after the recession ended, more Fed stimulus at this late point appears more obligatory than reasoned. It's also a stunning admission of the failure of President Obama to lead America back to a sustained economic recovery, said Brady. share: f t The Fed, three years after recession ended, “is shooting blanks, and the free market knows it.” Washington, D.C.-- Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, strongly disagreed with the Federal Open Market Committee’s decision today to embark upon a new round of quantitative easing by committing to an open ended program to purchase $40 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities per month and extending the expected period of very low interest rates from the end of 2014 until the middle of 2015.“Three years after the recession ended, more Fed stimulus at this late point appears more obligatory than reasoned. It’s also a stunning admission of the failure of President Obama to lead America back to a sustained economic recovery,” said Brady.“As far as job creation goes the Fed is shooting blanks at this point, and the market knows it.”At a time of historically low interest rates, trillions of dollars of excess commercial bank reserves parked at the Fed and with U.S. companies sitting on an equally large amount of cash, Brady says “it’s doubtful that another round of Fed stimulus will have much of an impact on the economy or the dismal employment rate.”Time for Fed to StopThe Fed’s latest action doesn’t address the real roadblocks to economic growth, says Brady, and only adds more uncertainty to the market. “It’s time for the Fed to stop. Chairman Bernanke should look President Obama and Congress in the eye and tell them the Fed has done all it can to boost the economy—and perhaps too much.” “The Fed Chairman,” said Brady, “should state clearly and unequivocally that if the president wants stronger job creation now--before the election--then he should work with Republicans in Congress to remove the tax, spending, regulatory and health care roadblocks jackknifed across America’s economy now--before the election.”“Monetary policy can’t solve what poor fiscal policy has created.” Three-quarters of economists responding in the most recent Blue Chip Economic Indicators survey believe the Federal Reserve should not embark upon additional quantitative easing. Roughly two-thirds of those respondents believe that any such action would have little or no effect.Recent work by Macroeconomic Advisers suggests that a large scale Fed bond buying program would result in an increase in GDP growth of only ¼ of one percent and also only serve to lower the unemployment rate by only about 0.2 percentage points over the next two years.Rep. Brady is the sponsor of the Sound Dollar Act H.R.4180, which would replace the Fed’s current dual mandate with a single mandate for price stability.###
09.13.2012	My Op-Ed in National Review on how the Federal Reserve keeps 'shooting blanks' at the economy. share: f t by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady,The Federal Reserve is shooting blanks as far as job creation goes. And the market knows it.The effectiveness of the Fed’s unprecedented monetary morphine is rapidly waning. This makes the Fed’s anticipated initiation of a third round of quantitative easing (QE3) on Thursday all the more baffling. At a time of historically low interest rates, trillions of dollars of excess bank reserves parked at the Fed, and U.S. companies with an equally large amount of cash holdings, most economists believe yet another round of QE will have little effect on either growth or the unemployment rate.The Fed’s action would be more fearful than reasoned. The fact that this option is still on the table is a stunning indictment of the failure of President Obama’s economic policies three years after the recession officially ended.Thirty-five years ago, Congress gave the Fed a dual mandate to achieve both stable prices and maximum employment. Pursuing the employment half of its dual mandate, the Fed slashed interest rates and acted aggressively as lender of last resort during 2008.In the three and a half years since the Fed hit the limit of traditional monetary policy, the Fed has repeatedly reached into its bag of tricks to bolster our anemic economic recovery. First, the Fed purchased hundreds of billions of dollars of mortgage-backed securities (QE1) and then hundreds of billions of dollars in U.S. Treasuries (QE2). More recently via “operation twist,” the Fed has pushed down longer-term interest rates and communicated its intent to keep shorter-term interest rates near zero through 2014.Yet, despite the Fed’s best attempts, the current economic recovery ranks dead last among the ten recoveries lasting more than one year since World War II — both in terms of output growth and job creation. If the Fed’s first two rounds of quantitative easing did not put us on the path to strong growth, why should Americans expect a third round to be any different?In fairness to the Fed, monetary policy is not the primary cause of this weak recovery. Monetary policy cannot stimulate long-term growth and job creation.President Obama’s “government made America great and government can make it great again” policies have failed spectacularly. Working his way through an ever evolving list of those who deserve blame for his lack of success, he’s lingering on congressional Republicans. But the president had a Democratic Congress for his first two years, in which he could and did pass almost any policy he liked. Laws and executive orders adopted under Democratic control only increased federal debt and amplified economic uncertainty. In the last two years, congressional Republicans urged a different course, but unlike President Clinton, the current president hasn’t been receptive to alternative policies since his party lost the midterm election.In this climate, the Fed decided once again to take extraordinary actions to boost America’s economy. But will additional easing do much good?The problems facing the U.S. economy are not illiquidity or high interest rates that monetary easing could alleviate. There is plenty of liquidity — U.S. non-financial corporations are sitting on $1.5 trillion in cash and near equivalents, and U.S. banks have $1.5 trillion in excess reserves. Borrowing costs are down, with interest rates trending just above historical lows.Consequently, many economists have concluded that further Fed action will not do much good. Recently, the private forecasting firm, Macroeconomic Advisers, estimated that an additional $600 to $750 billion of quantitative easing would, over the next two years, add a meager one-fourth of a percentage point to real GDP growth and lower the unemployment rate by roughly 0.2 percentage points. That equates to roughly one month of healthy job creation over the next two years at a cost of $2 million a job. America’s job creators are sidelined not because the economy hasn’t received enough monetary morphine, but because uncertainty over Washington’s economic policies is as high as it has ever been. Fear of Obamacare and the looming tax bomb are causing businesses along Main Street to take a wait-and-see approach to new hiring. Meanwhile, new regulations related to Obamacare, Dodd-Frank, and domestic energy production are hampering the ongoing operations of business across America. And the failure of President Obama and congressional Democrats to address the federal government’s gloomy fiscal prospects has extended the cloud of uncertainty for years to come.Although the Fed feels compelled to act because President Obama’s policies have created strong economic headwinds, QE3 would heighten the risks to America’s economy. Further expansion in the monetary base would make the Fed’s eventual “exit strategy” more difficult to execute, risking future price inflation.What’s more, if QE3 commits the Fed to purchase additional mortgage-backed securities, QE3 would put the Fed in the position of picking winners and losers in credit markets. Credit allocation politicizes the Fed and will undermine its independence.It’s time for the Fed to stop. Chairman Bernanke should look President Obama and Congress in the eye and tell them the Fed has done all it can to boost growth—perhaps too much. He should state clearly and unequivocally that if the president wants stronger job creation now — before the election — then he should work with Congress to remove the tax, spending, regulatory, and health-care roadblocks jackknifed across America’s economy now.Monetary policy can’t solve what poor fiscal policy has created. — Representative Kevin Brady (R., Tex.) is Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress and author of the Sound Dollar Act, a measure that would restrict the role of the Federal Reserve to guarding against inflation.
09.12.2012	The killings of four Americans, including our Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens, is an assault on America. share: f t Washington, DC– U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), released the following statement on the killings of American Embassy staff in Libya:“The killings of four Americans, including our Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens, is an assault on America. It confirms that extreme Islamists need little excuse – merely a cartoon or a movie - to target, attack and kill American representatives serving the cause of freedom. Simply condemning the killings with mere words is not satisfactory, there needs to be consequences or we invite more of the same. I urge President Obama to explore all options promptly and prudently – then act forcefully.”# # #
09.07.2012	Today's report confirms that the Obama recovery has fallen even further into dead last among the ten recoveries since World War II that lasted more than a year. Brady noted. share: f t Tepid August Jobs Numbers Confirm Obama Recovery is Worst in Modern Times, Brady SaysWashington, D.C.-- Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today called the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ report that the economy added only 103,000 new private sector jobs in August and left the unemployment rate mired at 8.1% “more dismal news for America’s job seekers.” “Today’s report confirms that the Obama recovery has fallen even further into dead last among the ten recoveries since World War II that lasted more than a year.” Brady noted. “Why President Obama celebrates his economic record is beyond me. The inescapable truth is that if the economy had, under Obama’s economic leadership, performed at the average rate of past recoveries, over four million more Americans would be working today rather than looking for work.”“These are the unlucky four million Americans who can’t find work because this President can’t even reach average.” According to an analysis by Joint Economic Committee Republican staff, the U.S. economy under President Obama has added only 4.3% to private sector payrolls over the past thirty months compared to nearly double that rate – 8.3% - for the average of the other nine recoveries since WWII over the comparable time period.If the Obama recovery had merely reached the average of his predecessors, 4.3 million more private sector jobs would have been created in America over the past 30 months. If this recovery had proceeded at the pace of the strong Reagan recovery in the 1980s, there would be an additional 7.4 million private jobs.
09.04.2012	During less than four years under President Obama's leadership, the national debt has increased an astonishing $5.4 trillion. And yet the President persists in pushing his agenda of more spending and higher taxes on job creators that is crippling ou Debt Surpasses $16 TrillionWashington, DC – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means released the following statement regarding the nation’s escalating national debt.“On Friday, August 31st the national debt passed the $16 trillion mark,” Brady noted. “During less than four years under President Obama’s leadership, the national debt has increased an astonishing $5.4 trillion. And yet the President persists in pushing his agenda of more spending and higher taxes on job creators that is crippling our economy.” According to the Treasury Department the national debt reached $16,015,769,788,215.80 on Friday.“Under President Obama’s stewardship, the national debt has grown by more than $4 billion per day, $170 million per hour, $2.8 million per minute and more than $47,000 per second,” Brady added.“We’ve got a lot of work to do. We need to continue to bring that rate down and get our economy moving so that we can start to shrink the size of our debt relative to the economy.”### share: f t 9/4/12 13:14
08.11.2012	Gov. Romney's selection of Congressman Paul Ryan is an excellent choice and a game changer for the presidential election. share: f t Fellow Ways & Means Committee member calls Ryan pick a ‘game changer’Texas Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement about his colleague on the House Ways and Means Committee:“Gov. Romney's selection of Congressman Paul Ryan is an excellent choice and a game changer for the presidential election. In addition to a referendum on President Obama's failed four years, it's now a campaign of ideas on how best to get this economy moving again, balance the budget and restore America as a land of opportunity rather than a food stamp nation.“My guess is that Barack Obama has a sick feeling in his stomach today.”# # #
08.08.2012	What I've heard from key stakeholders is that there is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding healthcare in America, building decisions are being put on hold, that in effect, one sixth of the US economy is essentially frozen. share: f t BRADY, OLSON HEAR FROM TEXAS MEDICAL CENTER OFFICIALS ON MEDICAID & OBAMACARE ISSUESHouston, TX – Congressmen Kevin Brady and Pete Olson today heard from officials at the Texas Medical Center about challenges related to the solvency and political futures of Medicaid, Medicare and the Affordable Care Act (ObamaCare). They were joined by Dr. Richard E. Wainerdi, President and CEO of TMC who spoke at the media availability after the meeting.Here is the video clip of today's media availability. Below are excerpts from the event:Rep. Kevin Brady said, "What I've heard from key stakeholders is that there is a great deal of uncertainty surrounding healthcare in America, building decisions are being put on hold, that in effect, one sixth of the US economy is essentially frozen. What we heard is that ObamaCare provide the wrong incentives, for people to get insurance, for businesses to continue to offer insurance."Rep. Pete Olson said, "What we heard today wasn't good, lots of uncertainty that strangles job creation, strangles new medical techniques, new physicians coming into practice..."Dr. Wainerdi said, "The healthcare industry is basically at a standstill...its having a very adverse affect on people coming into the field, and what it's going to look like...basically the unanimous position was certainty is lacking."###
08.03.2012	Today's employment report, despite a better than expected gain of 172,000 private payroll jobs, yet again, confirms the failure of President Obama's economic policies." Brady added, "Using the White House's own metrics of talking about privat share: f t Brady says, ‘President Obama shouldn’t drive economy off tax cliff’Washington D.C.-- Responding to today’s employment report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement:“Today’s employment report, despite a better than expected gain of 172,000 private payroll jobs, yet again, confirms the failure of President Obama’s economic policies.” Brady added, “Using the White House’s own metrics of talking about private payroll job gains from the cycle low, President Obama’s recovery remains in last place among post-World War II recoveries.” “Using the President’s own metrics, his recovery lags the average recovery by 4.2 million private jobs. And it lags the pace of the stronger Reagan recovery by 7.3 million. If this recovery had been like the Reagan recovery, we would have added 11.8 million private sector jobs instead of the 4.5 million created under Obama.”“The problem is that the President’s continued insistence on higher taxes, more spending, more red tape, and his government takeover of health care are stifling economic growth and killing job creation.”Brady called the unemployment rate of 8.3%, “Another record for the President. For forty-two consecutive months, we’ve seen the unemployment rate above 8.0%. Without the decline in labor force participation, since the unemployment rate peaked at 10.0% in October 2009, the unemployment rate would have risen to 10.1%.”
08.01.2012	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 256-171 to remove the threat of a $4 trillion tax hike on January 1, 2013. share: f t Watch video of Congressman Brady’s August 1 Floor Speech here.Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 256-171 to remove the threat of a $4 trillion tax hike on January 1, 2013. Congressman Kevin Brady, one of the leaders of the legislation who held five Stop the Tax Hike town halls last Friday, spoke out on the House floor today about how such hikes would kill over 700,000 American jobs.
07.26.2012	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a package of jobs bills designed to help small business struggling with an avalanche of red tape flowing from Washington. share: f t House Passes H.R. 4078, Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation ActWashington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed a package of jobs bills designed to help small business struggling with an avalanche of red tape flowing from Washington.A recent national survey revealed half of all small business owners in America say they’re not hiring right now because of new red tape, including new ObamaCare regulations. H.R. 4078, Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act is a start towards controlling Washington’s out of control rule writers.“Red tape from Washington is killing jobs and slowing the economy. Not only does red tape cost a small business owner more than $10,000* for every worker, President Obama is on pace to add more regulation to the federal books than any White House in history,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, who leads the Republicans on the Joint Economic Committee (which created the chart above which shows the average red tape a typical small business owner in America must grapple with).“Enough is enough. To get America’s economy moving again House Republicans are cutting red tape and preventing more job-killing regulation until the economy gets back on track,” said Brady.H.R. 4078 establishes a moratorium on super-sized red tape, ends last minute “midnight regulation” by White House as they leave office, stops “sue and settle” abuses, streamlines red tape to unlock American energy projects and requires more cost benefit analyses on pending regulation before they take effect.*($10,585 in 2008 according to the Small Business Administration)
07.26.2012	The U.S. House Ways & Means Committee today passed legislation pushed by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas to open new sales of American products and services to Russia. share: f t Texas Leads Nation in Selling to RussiaWashington, DC-- The U.S. House Ways & Means Committee today passed legislation pushed by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas to open new sales of American products and services to Russia. Russia, the 9th largest economy in the world, will join the World Trade Organization this summer which requires it to comply with the same trade rules as the rest of the world. Congressional action is necessary to ensure American companies and farmers can compete in Russia on a level playing field with other nations."This is a jobs bill for Texas and a jobs bill for America’, said Brady, who leads the Trade Subcommittee in the House. “Texas leads the nation when it comes to selling goods and services to Russia and our sales grew by almost a third last year alone. From energy to chemicals, computers to beef, Russia is an important source of new customers for Texas and we need to make sure our companies aren’t at a disadvantage to other countries when we compete in Russia.”Texas sold $1.6 billion dollars in goods and services to Russia last year, making Russia the fastest growing export market for Texas. These sales support 4,100 jobs in the state according to the Business Roundtable."Russia is a prime success story for Texas businesses and agriculture but we need more barriers torn down in Russia,” added Brady. “This legislation achieves that while giving us a level playing field against China, Europe and other global competitors.”
07.25.2012	President Obama has proposed the worst offshore drilling lease plan since Jimmy Carter. Americans didn't like President Carter's gas lines, and they don't like President Obama's energy policies, said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. share: f t Closing off 85% of America’s Natural Resources is a problem, not a solutionWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that would replace President Obama’s latest 5-year leasing plan for the oil and gas resources on the nation’s outer continental shelf. The Congressional Research Service, the non-partisan think tank for Congress, has issued a report stating that the President’s plan represents the lowest number of lease sales offered since 1980. “President Obama has proposed the worst offshore drilling lease plan since Jimmy Carter. Americans didn’t like President Carter’s gas lines, and they don’t like President Obama’s energy policies,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “We should be producing American energy and creating American jobs, not closing off 85% of our offshore energy resources.” The legislation will establish a new schedule for 29 lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico, Mid-Atlantic, Southern Pacific and the Arctic. It will also open up offshore Virginia to drilling, with the first of several lease sales starting in 2013. The House Natural Resources Committee projects that the bill, if enacted, will generate $600 million in revenues and create tens of thousands of American jobs.
07.25.2012	An updated study released today on the impacts of the federal estate tax shows that it generates more harm than good for the U.S. economy and federal tax coffers. share: f t Hurts economy, generates meager tax revenue and widens economic inequality Washington D.C.- An updated study released today on the impacts of the federal estate tax shows that it generates more harm than good for the U.S. economy and federal tax coffers.In a study titled “Cost & Consequences of the Federal Estate Tax,” economists on the Republican staff of the Joint Economic Committee point out the “Death Tax,” as some label it, has robbed almost as much capital stock from the U.S. economy as this tax has generated in revenue in its 96 years of existence. The total revenue produced by this tax in almost a century is only $1.2 trillion, which would barely cover the federal deficit during this budget year.Rather than redistribute wealth in America as its supporters hope, the analysis shows the opposite: the estate tax motivates wealth holders to reduce savings and increase spending now rather than pass it to the next generation – which actually increases the consumption gap between the wealthy and the poor in America.“By every measure this tax has failed to achieve the misguided goals Congress initially set for it when it established it nearly a century ago,” says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “It fails to generate sufficient revenue; it fails to redistribute income or boost the economy, and it fails to meet any basic standard of fairness.”“The bottom line is that both our economy and federal tax revenues would grow faster if the death tax were simply abolished. ”A majority of members of the U.S. House – 218 - are co-sponsoring legislation (HR 1259) by Brady to abolish the federal estate tax. Senator John Thune (R-SD) leads the effort in the other chamber.According to a study by Stephen J. Entin, former deputy assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department, repealing the estate tax would increase federal revenue $89 billion through 2021 over the current estate tax revenue through increased income taxes and economic output.The JEC study, released today, found that:The estate tax impedes economic growth because it discourages savings and capital accumulation.As of 2008, the estate tax has cumulatively reduced the amount of capital stock (buildings, equipment and software) in the U.S. economy by roughly $1.1 trillion since its introduction as a permanent tax in 1916, equivalent to 3.2 percent of the total capital stock.The estate tax is an overwhelming cause of the dissolution of family businesses. The estate tax is a significant hindrance to entrepreneurial activity because many family businesses lack sufficient liquid assets to pay estate tax liabilities.The estate tax does not reduce income and wealth inequality. Perversely, the estate tax creates a barrier to income and wealth mobility.Economic inefficiencies due to the distortionary effects of the estate tax are burdensome, and the costs of compliance associated with the estate tax add to the paperwork and time necessary to comply with other taxes.The estate tax raises a negligible amount of revenue. Since its inception nearly 100 years ago, the estate tax has raised just under $1.3 trillion in total revenue; by comparison, that is equivalent to the U.S. federal deficit for fiscal year 2011 alone.Many studies have indicated that abolition of the estate tax would actually increase overall federal tax revenue in at least two ways: (1) the estate tax robs additional federal tax revenues from the collection of other taxes like the income tax, and (2) a larger total capital stock could increase income tax revenue.This study confirms that the cost of the estate tax far exceeds any benefits it produces. This study, developed by the Republican staff of the Joint Economic Committee, is the second update the JEC Republican staff has done of its initial study in 1998. Read more on the study here and here.Listen to the July 25 News Conference with Sen. Thune, Rep. Nunes, farmers and ranchers from across the country, a tax reform advocate and a small business people here.
07.19.2012	We have a duty to provide for our troops and their families, said Texas Congressmen Kevin Brady who believes ensuring that our brave men and women serving in our armed services have the tools they need to protect us is a top priority. share: f t Brady sees strong military capability as top priorityWashington, DC-- Today, the House of Representatives passed 326 - 90 legislation to fund national defense programs, including a pay raise for America’s military and critical health and quality of life programs for service members and their families.“We have a duty to provide for our troops and their families,” said Texas Congressmen Kevin Brady who believes ensuring that our brave men and women serving in our armed services have the tools they need to protect us is a top priority. “We have the best trained, most experienced military in American history and the House is committed to keeping these capabilities.”The measure provides $519.2 billion in non-war funding and $88.5 billion for frontline operations overseas, including a 1.7% pay raise for our troops and $35.1 billion for health and family programs with funding for traumatic brain injury research and suicide prevention outreach programs.The bill moves to Senate for its approval. However Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) has said that he will not bring up any individual appropriation bills, including defense appropriations, for the Senate to consider.Brady disagrees strongly with Reid’s stonewalling of military funding. “A grateful nation must take seriously the sacrifices our troops make on our behalf,” added Brady. “The Senate’s inaction is a slap in the face of everyone who dons a uniform in service of our country.”
07.18.2012	Our soldiers have a right to know if they are being laid off, and so do the workers and communities that build the technology to protect our troops and nation, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "The House of Representatives has already acted share: f t House passes measure to require White House to reveal where massive military cuts will be madeWashington, DC – U.S. House Republicans today passed a measure designed to shed light on the massive automatic spending cuts to America’s defense department which kick-in January 1. The bill gives the White House thirty days to detail the cuts to individual programs and activities as well as the defense accounts that would be exempt from the automatic reductions. President Obama has so far ignored bi-partisan requests to shed light on the military cuts which may cost Texas nearly 160,000 in job losses from active military and defense companies. “Our soldiers have a right to know if they are being laid off, and so do the workers and communities that build the technology to protect our troops and nation,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). “The House of Representatives has already acted to stop these cuts and replace them with savings from frivolous programs that aren’t as important as national security. Yet the President and Democrat-led Senate have buried their heads in the sand.”Brady adds that hollowing out America’s war fighting force is the wrong way to reduce the deficit because the threats of tomorrow will be battled with the weapons and armed forces decided today.“Why should our troops bear half the cuts when they are less than 20% of Washington spending” asks Brady. “That’s dangerous and short-sighted.”
07.17.2012	Higher taxes on small businesses will shrink economy, lower wages for workers and cost over 700,000 American jobs share: f t Washington, DC– A new study by Ernst & Young released today finds that the President’s plan to raise taxes on small business owners and families earning more than $250,000 will lower the wages of American workers by nearly two percent, shrink the U.S. economy and cost 710,000 jobs – 57,000 of them in Texas. “In the Obama recovery, the weakest recovery since World War II, small businesses along Main Street are struggling and so are a lot of hardworking taxpayers. This study proves that while the President is shooting at the so-called wealthy, his tax hikes will actually hit hardest our small businesses and middle-class workers who’ll see their paychecks shrink,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “America can’t afford to lose another 700,000 jobs. Texas can’t afford to send 57,000 more workers to the unemployment line. And workers can’t afford to see their paychecks get even smaller because under President Obama everything from food to gas to college costs more.”The study “The Macro-Economic Impact of Increasing Tax Rates on High-Income Taxpayers” was conducted by Dr. Robert Carroll and Gerald Prante of Ernst & Young and released by the National Federation of Independent Business. It shows that 900,000 business owners would be hit by the higher tax rates, that the U.S. economy would shrink by 1.3%, and investment in America would fall significantly – 2.4% - as a result of President Obama’s tax hikes.Brady also announced that House Republicans will take up legislation later this month to stop the Obama $4.3 trillion tax hike, lay out principles for a fairer, simpler tax code and guarantee an up-or-down vote by Congress on tax reform next year. The measure will also prevent the Death Tax from springing back to life and stop the alternative minimum tax from capturing 31 million middle class families.
07.12.2012	The non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) is questioning Medicare's authority to hand out $8.3 billion in bonuses to Medicare health care plans just before the election while delaying much larger cuts to the popular Medicare Advantage pl share: f t Government Auditors Target the White House’s Medicare Advantage SchemeWashington, DC– The non-partisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) is questioning Medicare’s authority to hand out $8.3 billion in bonuses to Medicare health care plans just before the election while delaying much larger cuts to the popular Medicare Advantage plans directed under the president’s new health care law. “The White House created this ‘bonus plan’ out of thin air to mask the massive cuts to seniors in their Medicare Advantage plans mandated under ObamaCare. The truth is that more than 90% of the cuts to Medicare will occur after the November election and the president is doing all he can to hide it,” said Texas Republican Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “I’m glad this White House Medicare scam was exposed because I predict that due to ObamaCare many of our Texas seniors will eventually be forced out of their Medicare plans or will pay much higher prices to keep what they have.”Brady confronted Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius about the bonus program and the future Medicare Advantage cuts in a recent congressional hearing. In a letter GAO General Counsel Lynn Gibson expressed serious concerns with the legal authority of this temporary Medicare scheme and the scheme’s sheer size.
07.11.2012	Today the US House passed legislation, cosponsored by Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), to repeal ObamaCare by a bipartisan vote of 244-185."Americans know ObamaCare is bad for the country. This law has 12 new taxes that will hit the middle class, 21 share: f t Brady Says Clean Slate is Necessary to get Health Care Reform RightWashington, DC – Today the US House passed legislation, cosponsored by Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), to repeal ObamaCare by a bipartisan vote of 244-185.“Americans know ObamaCare is bad for the country. This law has 12 new taxes that will hit the middle class, 21 new taxes totaling $647 billion in all and 159 new federal agencies, commissions and bureaucracies in between you and your doctor,” said Brady. “Under ObamaCare, costs will go up for most people because of government mandates, more businesses will be forced to drop their health care plans and place their workers in the new government exchanges, and many of our Texas seniors will be no longer be able to see their doctor or use their Medicare plan of choice,” continued Brady.Texas is home to the largest medical association in the country, the Texas Medical Association, whose biennial survey released Monday showed the number of Texas doctors who take Medicare dropping to 58 percent. It also showed that less than a third of Texas doctors will treat new Medicaid patients – an ‘all-time low.’“When the doctors we all count on tell us they are quote ‘forced to reduce the number of patients they see who depend on government insurance’, it’s the wrong time for Washington to institute another massive health care bureaucracy,” said Brady. “I agree with TMA President Speer that ‘without an adequate network of physicians, no health care system can work, let alone be effective.”The White House has issued a veto threat against the bill and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid has called the House vote a “gesture of futility.”“With dozens of votes, the House has been crystal clear that ObamaCare is the wrong prescription for what ails health care in America and a clean slate is necessary to get this right,” concluded Brady. “But the true vote on ObamaCare’s future will come from the American people this November.”Brady’s floor speech is on-line here.
07.09.2012	Today the US House of Representatives passed the Veterans' Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2012 (H.R. 4114), which will increases veterans' disability compensation as well as their survivors' dependency and indemnity compensation share: f t Brady says the House is acting to protect veterans’ “hard-earned benefits from inflation”Washington, D.C. - Today the US House of Representatives passed the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2012 (H.R. 4114), which will increases veterans’ disability compensation as well as their survivors’ dependency and indemnity compensation by the same cost-of-living adjustment that Social Security recipients will receive in 2013. “Veterans and their families have already earned their benefits through the sacrifices they made in service to this country,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands). “Today, we are acting to protect these hard-earned benefits from inflation by voting to give veterans the same boost that Social Security will receive next year.”
07.06.2012	With the new June jobs report in hand, President Barack Obama's economic recovery now ranks as the worst in modern times in terms of both job creation and economic growth, says the GOP leader of Congress's Joint Economic Committee. share: f t Obama now ranks 10th of 10 recoveries in both jobs & economic growth Washington DC— With the new June jobs report in hand, President Barack Obama's economic recovery now ranks as the worst in modern times in terms of both job creation and economic growth, says the GOP leader of Congress's Joint Economic Committee. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, observed that the June Employment Report released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics along with the gross domestic product report released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis on June 28th has marked a milestone: President Obama’s economic recovery ranks as dead last in the post-World War II era. “Since 1945, the United States has had ten economic recoveries that lasted more than one year. In terms of both how fast the U.S. economy has recovered and how many private sector jobs have been created since the recession's low point, President Obama now ranks tenth of ten - that's dead last", said Brady. “Three years after the recession officially ended in June 2009, we still have more than four million fewer private sector jobs than we did when the recession started,” he continued. “And for the 41st consecutive month, the unemployment rate has soared above a discouraging 8%.” Brady says that while President Obama boosts about the 4.4 million private sector jobs he claims have been created during the latest 28 months, put in perspective "President Obama's recovery has been weaker than every one of his predecessors in the past seven decades. He can try to spin it any way he wants but when measured by jobs or by economic growth he's at the bottom of the list." Last week, the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported that real GDP grew expanded by 6.7% over eleven quarters since the recession ended. Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported the number of private sector jobs had grown by a mere 4.1% since the cyclical low point. In contrast, real GDP expanded by 17.6%, and private sector jobs ballooned by 10.7% during comparable periods of the Reagan recovery. “Obama’s economic record, frankly, is embarrassing,” Brady said. “Think about it - despite President Obama's stimulus, financial bailout, housing bailout, auto bailout, cash-for-clunkers, cash-for-caulkers and an unprecedented five trillion dollars in deficit spending, the Obama recovery is officially dead last in results. Can unemployed Americans really afford four more years of this failed economic leadership?" ###
06.29.2012	Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly to extend federal highway, transit, and other surface transportation programs for two years - through September 30, 2014. The measure also included provisions to extend low-interest college stu share: f t Brady not satisfied but applauds more local control, fewer delays in road projectsWashington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly to extend federal highway, transit, and other surface transportation programs for two years - through September 30, 2014. The measure also included provisions to extend low-interest college student loans.“I fought for a five year highway bill that also removed roadblocks to more American-made energy production. Our Texas highway officials really wanted more long-term certainty to give the green light to needed roadway projects,” said Brady. “Nonetheless, the bill cuts red tape and returns more local control to Texas which will shorten the approval process and get our road projects underway in half the time, which is what we’ve been insisting upon for a long time. Overall, this bill is a step in the right direction for Texas.” The Highway Bill includes several long overdue reforms, like provisions that eliminate red tape and streamline the process for completing federally-funded transportation projects. It also consolidates dozens of federal programs, which Brady sees as another step in the right direction.
06.28.2012	Today, the House voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for blocking its investigation into Operation Fast and Furious, an Administration initiative that allowed around two thousand firearms to fall into the hands of drug carte share: f t House takes rare action over Justice Department’s stalling of Fast and Furious InvestigationWashington, DC – Today, the House voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for blocking its investigation into Operation Fast and Furious, an Administration initiative that allowed around two thousand firearms to fall into the hands of drug cartels and may have led to the death of a U.S. Border Patrol Agent, Brian Terry. “Mr. Holder’s repeated refusals to provide information to Congress about Operation Fast and Furious are regrettable and necessitated the bipartisan action taken today,” Kevin Brady said. “A federal law enforcement official is dead, and his family and the American people deserve to know the truth.”“The House sent a clear message to the Administration this afternoon,” Brady added, “No one is above the law.”
06.28.2012	Today the U.S. Supreme Court told Americans struggling to get by that Congress can force them to buy government-approved health care or pay a tax."Today, individual freedom took a body blow in the highest court in the land," said Texas Congressman Kevin share: f t Brady says Real Change Will Have to Come in NovemberWashington, DC –Today the U.S. Supreme Court told Americans struggling to get by that Congress can force them to buy government-approved health care or pay a tax.“Today, individual freedom took a body blow in the highest court in the land,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “Despite the fact that ObamaCare is bad for the economy, drives up health care costs and makes the deficit worse, the Supreme Court told every American that there are no limits on Washington’s power to force Americans to do something simply by taxing them.”Brady, who spearheaded charts depicting how ObamaCare would put 159 new government agencies and programs between patients and their doctors, said Americans who don’t want government to order them to private product merely because they exist will need to make their voices heard in November.“I look forward to voting for full repeal in the House on July 11 and I will keep fighting for full repeal, because Americans want limited government and free market driven reforms including an end to junk medical lawsuits,” added Brady. “What they didn’t want was this Washington knows best approach. Today, however, was not the final word on this terrible legislation and the American people will have their say at the ballot box in November.”
06.26.2012	When: 6:00p, Tuesday, July 3rd, 2012Where: Asbury Hall,The Woodlands United Methodist Church, 2200 Lake Woodlands Dr. The Woodlands, 77380 share: f t When: 6:00p, Tuesday, July 3rd, 2012Where: Asbury Hall,The Woodlands United Methodist Church, 2200 Lake Woodlands Dr. The Woodlands, 77380With the Supreme Court expected to issue a ruling Thursday on the constitutionality of ObamaCare and the House of Representatives working to prevent a $494 billion tax hike on January 1st, Congressman Kevin Brady is launching a series of summer town hall events, including a town hall in The Woodlands on July 3rd.“There has never been a more crucial time for citizens to stand up and be heard,” said Brady.“With the costs of health care rising amid a need for real reform, families in the 8th Congressional District are barely six months away from an average annual personal income tax hike of $3,648,” added Brady. ”This highest one-year tax increase in American history could be potentially crippling to the struggling U.S. economy.”
06.26.2012	When: 6:00p, Monday, July 2nd, 2012Where: HEARTS Veterans Center,463 State Hwy 75 N, Huntsville 77320 share: f t When: 6:00p, Monday, July 2nd, 2012Where: HEARTS Veterans Center,463 State Hwy 75 N, Huntsville 77320With the Supreme Court expected to issue a ruling Thursday on the constitutionality of ObamaCare and the House of Representatives working to prevent a $494 billion tax hike on January 1st, Congressman Kevin Brady is launching a series of summer town hall events in Huntsville on July 2nd.“There has never been a more crucial time for citizens to stand up and be heard,” said Brady.“With the costs of health care rising amid a need for real reform, families in the 8th Congressional District are barely six months away from an average annual personal income tax hike of $3,648,” added Brady. ”This highest one-year tax increase in American history could be potentially crippling to the struggling U.S. economy.”
06.25.2012	Today the U.S. Supreme Court struck down most of a key immigration reform law passed by Arizona, but state and local law enforcement officers will still be allowed to use their judgment when it comes to verifying immigration status during a traffic stop, share: f t Brady, disappointed, stands with Arizona’s fight for a “safe and secure state for their citizens to live” Washington, DC– Today the U.S. Supreme Court struck down most of a key immigration reform law passed by Arizona, but state and local law enforcement officers will still be allowed to use their judgment when it comes to verifying immigration status during a traffic stop, detention or arrest.“I am disappointed because when Washington fails to do its job to keep citizens secure, the states ought to be able to act,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “In my view President Obama should be working with local law enforcement to secure our borders, not fighting our states in the courts. The President’s ‘amnesty first’ ideology has real consequences for families and businesses in border states like ours.”In the same case the court upheld the Arizona provision allowing local law enforcement to check a suspect’s immigration status.“I’m pleased that provision was upheld, but I strongly disagree with the rest of the Supreme Court’s decision in this case. Our states should never be forced to risk the safety of their citizens because of the White House’s failure to enforce our nation’s immigration laws. I hope Arizona and other states continue fighting for their right to have a safe and secure state for their citizens to live.”
06.21.2012	Today, the House passed the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act, a wide-ranging package of bills to boost American energy production to create jobs and lower energy costs for families and small businesses. share: f t House passes bill to produce American Energy and put more Americans Back to WorkWashington, DC– Today, the House passed the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act, a wide-ranging package of bills to boost American energy production to create jobs and lower energy costs for families and small businesses.“The House has acted boldly to get Americans back to work, to create more American-made energy and generate new tax dollars to reduce America’s terrible deficit. If President Obama is being straight with the public about his ‘all of the above’ energy policy, I challenge him to embrace this common-sense energy package,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady whose district is home to numerous energy companies. “With more than 20 million Americans who can’t find a full time job, what is the President waiting for?”Bills Included in Domestic Energy and Jobs Act:· Strategic Energy Production Act of 2012, H.R. 4480 – which links tapping the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) to increasing energy production on federal lands. If the President releases oil from the SPR, the Administration will be required to develop a plan to lease more federal lands for exploration and production.· Gasoline Regulations Act of 2012, H.R. 4471 -- would halt certain EPA rules and actions until a real analysis can be completed on their consequences, such as on the price of gasoline and diesel fuels.· Planning for American Energy Act of 2012, H.R.4381 -- would require the Secretary of the Interior to establish an all-of-the-above energy program for federal lands by reviewing the nation’s energy needs and then establishing goals for federal land energy production to meet those needs from all energy sources -- including oil, natural gas, coal and renewables.· Providing Leasing Certainty for American Energy Act of 2012, H.R 4382 – would require a minimum annual acreage leasing plan that makes available at least 25 percent of the lands open for leasing each year for which there is interest in development and set firm timelines for the Secretary of the Interior to issue leases and adjudicate lease protests and stop punitive stipulations from being added after lease sales are approved.· Streamlining Permitting of American Energy Act of 2012, H.R. 4383 -- would ensure a reliable, streamlined permitting process to increase American energy production, ending government roadblocks and bureaucratic red tape that hinder and delay American energy production and American job creation in order to encourage the timely development of our federal onshore oil, natural gas, and renewable resources.· National Petroleum Reserve Alaska Access Act, H.R. 2150 -- will create new jobs, support current energy jobs in Alaska, expand American energy production and lower energy costs by ensuring that oil and natural gas resources in the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPRA) are developed and transported in a timely, efficient manner.· BLM Live Internet Auctions Act, H.R. 2752 – provides the Secretary of the Interior withthe authority to conduct Internet-based auctions for onshore leases to ensure the best return to the Federal taxpayer, reduce fraud, and secure the leasing process.
06.21.2012	Dave Ploof, the longtime Rapid City American Legion Post 22 coach who retired this past year as the winningest coach in American Legion baseball, will be honored June 28th at the 51st Annual Roll Call Congressional Baseball Game in Washington, D.C share: f t Congressman Kevin Brady, former Post 22 ballplayer, will take field in Post 22 Uniform Washington, DC – Dave Ploof, the longtime Rapid City American Legion Post 22 coach who retired this past year as the winningest coach in American Legion baseball, will be honored June 28th at the 51st Annual Roll Call Congressional Baseball Game in Washington, D.C. The game, a Capitol Hill tradition since 1909, pits Democrats against Republicans in a seven-inning contest at the Washington Nationals Park. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, a Rapid City native who played on two of Ploof’s 33 state championship teams, will honor his former coach by wearing the Post 22 uniform. Coach Ploof and his wife Patty will be Congressman Brady’s guests at the congressional game and at a dinner with the South Dakota legislative delegation. “I’m proud to have played for Coach Ploof. He made a big impact on my life, on the lives of countless ball players and on American Legion baseball in America,” said Brady. “It’s an honor to shine a spotlight on his achievements as well as the unprecedented tradition of excellence of the Rapid City Post 22 program. Plus I’m thrilled to be a ‘hard hat’ for one more game.” Coach Ploof’s record setting career includes 2,483 wins, 33 state championships, 8 World Series appearances and a national championship. Brady, who went on to play baseball at the University of South Dakota, starts at second base and is a two-time MVP for the Republican team. He is serving his eighth term in Congress. “Dave Ploof is one of the best athletic coaches in South Dakota’s history,” adds Senator Tim Johnson (D-SD), who has thrown out the first pitch at some of Post 22’s games. “For over 40 years, Coach Ploof has been instrumental in shaping the lives of so many young people – including quite a few who have succeeded at the major league and minor league level. His legacy will live on for many years to come.” “Coach Ploof taught his players more than baseball, he taught them valuable life skills,” said Senator John Thune (R-SD). “I am hopeful that Congressman Brady is able to display some of those skills at the Congressional baseball game in front of his high school coach, a guy who is used to winning. If the game is close, they would be smart to put Coach Ploof in the dugout.” “When I think about an American legend, I think about Coach Dave Ploof,” said Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-SD). “He not only ran one of the most successful programs in the history of baseball, he helped build character and integrity into countless young people. Dave Ploof is a wonderful man, and even though he is retired, South Dakotans will always be proud to call him ‘coach.’” # # #
06.07.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation, cosponsored by senior committee member Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, to repeal ObamaCare's medical device tax and its ban on patients using their health savings accounts to buy needed over-the- share: f t Brady Pushes to Restore Freedom to Purchase of Over-the-Counter MedicinesWashington, D.C. -The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation, cosponsored by senior committee member Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, to repeal ObamaCare’s medical device tax and its ban on patients using their health savings accounts to buy needed over-the-counter medicines.“If the tax goes into effect next year, it will cost Texas nearly 2,000 jobs and almost $145 million from paychecks,” said Brady. “Repealing ObamaCare’s tax on medical devices will save 43,000 American jobs, lower costs for patients and encourage more research into life-saving devices.”Brady added, “Giving families back the freedom to use their health savings accounts to buy affordable medicine stretches their budgets and keeps them from being forced to see a doctor for unnecessary prescriptions – which was yet another Washington-knows-best mandate within ObamaCare.”ObamaCare is paid for in part by taxing lifesaving and pain reducing medical devices like heart stents, pacemakers, MRI machines and artificial joints. This tax due to hit next year will either be passed through to patients in the form of higher prices and insurance premiums or the companies that manufacturer these medical devices will be forced to lay off workers and cut research and development. Many of these medical device manufacturers are small startup companies with marginal profits who can least afford a tax assessed on their sales. The Committee also repealed ObamaCare’s “Medicine Cabinet Tax” which prohibits Americans from spending their own money through flexible spending arrangements (FSAs), health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs), and Archer medical savings accounts (Archer MSAs) for non-prescription medicines.
06.07.2012	Joint Economic Committee Vice Chairman Kevin Brady questions Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke this morning about the possibility of another round of quantitative easing (QE3) and what form it could take. share: f t Watch the video here. Read the opening statement here. Washington, DC -- Joint Economic Committee Vice Chairman Kevin Brady questioned Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke about whether more federal reserve action is forthcoming at “The Economic Outlook” hearing this morning. “It’s my belief that the Fed has done all that it can do – and perhaps done too much,” Brady told the Fed Chairman “There exists a real risk that the massive amount of liquidity the Fed has already injected into the economy could trigger higher inflation before the Fed can execute its exit strategy.” “I also believe another round of Fed intervention will increase uncertainty among job creators while, ignoring the genuine reason for low business investment and job creation: sound, timely fiscal policy,” added Brady, who also bluntly told the Federal Reserve Chairman “our economy has struggled to grow at an annualized average quarterly increase of 2.4%. To place it in perspective, of the 10 economic recoveries since World War II lasting more than a year, this recovery ranks, regrettably, tenth. And dead last is unacceptable by any standard.” ###
06.05.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady, Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today issued the following statement: share: f t Rep. Kevin Brady, Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today issued the following statement:“Today, the Congressional Budget Office released the latest update of The 2012 Long-Term Budget Outlook. On its present course, federal debt held by the public will be nearly twice our annual output – 199% of GDP –in 25 years. If future federal spending is not reduced to manageable levels relative to the size of our economy, the United States risks its own sovereign debt crisis like the one occurring in Greece and in other parts of Europe. CBO’s report is a stark warning of the disastrous future that could await the United States if we fail to change course.” “A sudden debt crisis would mean that the United States would be unable to borrow at affordable rates. Looking at Europe, we can see what would occur: a severe recession, soaring unemployment, and the slashing of Social Security and Medicare payments. It is an abdication of responsibility for any American President to refuse to propose plans to set the country on a more sustainable fiscal course before we reach the point of no return. But President Obama continually refuses to do this. In fact, his Treasury Secretary recently admitted before Congress that the Obama team has “no definitive solution to the long-term problem” and that all it knows is that it does not like what Congressional Republicans propose.” “I call upon the President, for the first time in his presidency, to put the economic future of our nation ahead of his concern for his political future. Sit down with members of Congress and have a frank and honest discussion with the American people about our dire fiscal situation before our problems become unsolvable. The economic well-being of the American people is too important to be suborned to short-term partisan politics. I for one stand ready to put all other considerations aside to resolve this impasse and soon. I call upon the President to do the same.”###
06.02.2012	8 area high school graduates get a congressional sendoff to their military academy appointments. share: f t Watch the video here.Conroe, Texas – Eight Montgomery County high school graduates will soon be heading to U.S. military academies at West Point, the Naval Academy and the Air Force Academy.All received appointments from U. S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) who held his traditional send-off breakfast for the group and their parents this Saturday morning at The Woodlands United Methodist Church.“Our nation’s future depends upon a new generation of young people willing to serve their country as military leaders. It’s never been more important than now,” said Brady. “I’m proud of the outstanding young men and women of the eighth congressional district who’ve been chosen to attend America’s service academies. It’s a remarkable education and an opportunity to give back to your country.”Joining Brady at the send-off are husband-wife Air Force Academy graduates Major Amy Glisson and Captain (Ret.) Wes Glisson who are sharing their experiences at both the academy and in active duty service.After serving in Afghanistan, Captain Glisson - a native of New Waverly and standout on the Air Force football team - was assigned to the Green Zone in Iraq where he suffered critical battlefield injuries. He has retired back home to Texas focus on his recovery. Captain Glisson’s father is a Montgomery County Sheriff’s Deputy.His wife, Major Glisson - an all-American gymnast at the Air Force Academy - served as executive officer for the elite Thunderbird team and is now stationed at the Air Force Personnel Center in San Antonio so she can be close to her husband during his recovery.The class of incoming cadets and midshipmen include:Francisco Solano-Bloodworth (The Woodlands College Park) – Air Force AcademyJames Cullingford (Conroe) – Naval AcademyJonathan DeBaugh (Conroe) – Naval AcademyChristopher Ditter (The Woodlands College Park ) – Air Force AcademySamuel Finney (Strake Jesuit College Prep) – West PointStephanie Mallard (The Woodlands College Park ) – Air Force AcademyMegan Reutzel (The Woodlands College Park ) – Naval AcademyAlexia Ricketts (The Woodlands ) – Naval AcademyIn order to be offered an appointment to a service academy, candidates must first be nominated by their U.S. Representative or Senator. High School students residing in the 8th Congressional District of Texas are encouraged to speak to their guidance counselors about local applying through Congressman Brady’s office. Students can also learn more about the process and download the application at http://www.house.gov/brady/academy_page.html or by contacting Justin Davidson in the Huntsville district office at 936-439-9532.
06.01.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today called the meager increase of 82,000 in the number of private sector jobs and the accompanying rise in the unemployment r share: f t Washington, DC— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today called the meager increase of 82,000 in the number of private sector jobs and the accompanying rise in the unemployment rate to 8.2% “grim.”Brady called it “inexcusable” that the United States has 4.6 million fewer private payroll jobs than it did when the recession hit back in December 2007. “Four and a half years later, we are still struggling to get back to where the economy was, let alone move forward,” he said.“I seriously doubt that we are likely to see significant pick-up in the economy any time soon. For forty months now, the United States has seen an unemployment rate above 8%. Yet the president and his team forge on with policies that keep us considerably behind from where we should be. For anything to change, the administration will have to change its entire attitude toward business and the private sector and admit that its policies have not worked. I would not count on that,” Brady said.“It’s always gratifying to know that more Americans found jobs last month. But we have a long, long way to go before we can say that as a nation, we are ‘prospering,’ ” the Congressman continued.“As I did yesterday, I call upon the president to put in place policies that reflect the way the world really works and to stop viewing the economy through rose-colored glasses, shaped by ideological misperceptions,” Brady continued. “The way to sustained economic growth is by releasing the creative impulses of the American people. And we can do that by freeing job creators from the burdens of excessive taxation and regulation and trusting those who generate and perform jobs to decide for themselves how to manage the fruits of their labors.”
05.31.2012	Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) voted with the majority of the House of Representatives to ban abortions based solely on whether the baby in the womb is a boy or a girl. The bill – which failed to get the super majority needed to pass - share: f t Washington -- Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) voted with the majority of the House of Representatives to ban abortions based solely on whether the baby in the womb is a boy or a girl. The bill – which failed to get the super majority needed to pass - would make it a federal crime to carry out an abortion based on the gender of the child. President Obama opposes the measure. “Can you think of a more abhorrent reason to kill an innocent baby than because it doesn’t fit your preference for a boy or a girl?” asked Brady, a pro-life lawmaker who was an early sponsor of the Susan B. Anthony and Frederick Douglass Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act (H.R. 3541). "I am terribly disappointed that President Obama – who says he opposes gender discrimination in all forms – and Democrats in the House would oppose this bill given that, in countries like China that allow this practice, many of the gender-aborted babies are little girls.”H.R. 354 imposes criminal penalties on doctors who knowingly provide sex-selective abortions, and on those who coerce women to seek such abortions. It also bars federal funding from any organization which does not comply with the law and requires healthcare providers to report any suspected rule violation. No penalties are imposed upon a woman seeking an abortion.
05.31.2012	The U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means passed legislation today, cosponsored by senior committee member Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, to repeal ObamaCare's medical device tax and its ban on patients using their health savings accounts to buy n share: f t House Ways & Means Committee Also Lifts Ban on Purchasing Over-the-Counter Medicines Washington -- The U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means passed legislation today, cosponsored by senior committee member Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, to repeal ObamaCare’s medical device tax and its ban on patients using their health savings accounts to buy needed over-the-counter medicines. H.R. 436, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, repeals the device tax. H.R. 5842 , the Restoring Access to Medication Act, lifts the restrictions on medicine purchases. “Repealing ObamaCare’s tax on medical devices will save 43,000 American jobs, lower costs for patients and encourage more research into life-saving devices,” said Brady. “And giving people back the freedom to use their health savings accounts to buy affordable medicine stretches their dollars farther and keeps them from being forced to unnecessarily see a doctor for prescriptions – which was yet another Washington-knows-best mandate within ObamaCare.” ObamaCare is paid for in part by taxing lifesaving and pain reducing medical devices like heart stents, wheelchairs, MRI machines and artificial joints. This tax due to hit next year will either be passed through to patients in the form of higher prices and insurance premiums or the companies that manufacturer these medical devices will be forced to lay off workers and cut research and development. Many of these medical device manufacturers are small startup companies with marginal profits who can least afford a tax is assessed on their sales. The Committee also repealed ObamaCare’s “Medicine Cabinet Tax” which prohibits patients from spending their own money through flexible spending arrangements (FSAs), health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs), and Archer medical savings accounts (Archer MSAs) for non-prescription medicines. House Ways & Means Committee Also Lifts Ban on Purchasing Over-the-Counter Medicines Washington -- The U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means passed legislation today, cosponsored by senior committee member Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, to repeal ObamaCare’s medical device tax and its ban on patients using their health savings accounts to buy needed over-the-counter medicines. H.R. 436, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, repeals the device tax. H.R. 5842 , the Restoring Access to Medication Act, lifts the restrictions on medicine purchases. “Repealing ObamaCare’s tax on medical devices will save 43,000 American jobs, lower costs for patients and encourage more research into life-saving devices,” said Brady. “And giving people back the freedom to use their health savings accounts to buy affordable medicine stretches their dollars farther and keeps them from being forced to unnecessarily see a doctor for prescriptions – which was yet another Washington-knows-best mandate within ObamaCare.” ObamaCare is paid for in part by taxing lifesaving and pain reducing medical devices like heart stents, wheelchairs, MRI machines and artificial joints. This tax due to hit next year will either be passed through to patients in the form of higher prices and insurance premiums or the companies that manufacturer these medical devices will be forced to lay off workers and cut research and development. Many of these medical device manufacturers are small startup companies with marginal profits who can least afford a tax is assessed on their sales. The Committee also repealed ObamaCare’s “Medicine Cabinet Tax” which prohibits patients from spending their own money through flexible spending arrangements (FSAs), health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs), health savings accounts (HSAs), and Archer medical savings accounts (Archer MSAs) for non-prescription medicines.
05.29.2012	A new report prepared by Southern Methodist University's Maguire Energy Institute confirms regulatory decisions from Washington can have profound impacts on oil production and prices. It also refutes the President's campaign claims that activity i share: f t Obama Administration Interference Holding Back Gulf Production Texas – A new report prepared by Southern Methodist University's Maguire Energy Institute confirms regulatory decisions from Washington can have profound impacts on oil production and prices. It also refutes the President’s campaign claims that activity in the Gulf of Mexico has returned to pre-moratorium levels and shows that decreased production from the area is hurting consumers. “Americans should not be paying more at the pump because the President’s failed energy policies have imposed a ‘regulatory risk premium’ on oil and gas production in the Gulf,” said Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady, a staunch critic of the President’s attacks on American oil and gas. “The number of active Gulf rigs is well below the pre-moratorium level yet the President continues to exaggerate permit numbers and limit drilling.” “Not only is there a sharp increase in the time it takes to get a permit approved, the process the Department of Interior is actually making the situation worse, not better,” added Brady. According to the report, revenues to the U.S. Treasury from Gulf of Mexico oil and gas lease sales have fallen dramatically during the Obama Administration, from $9.4 billion in 2008, to $1.1 billion in 2009, to $979 million in 2010, and, finally, to $36 million in 2011. “While the President campaigns for higher taxes on certain Americans, he’s leaving billions in oil and gas revenues on the table that could help offset budget shortfalls.”
05.18.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed The National Defense Authorization Act which outlines next year's military spending and averts the deep cuts to America's military strength advocated by the President. share: f t Brady votes to restore strength and sanity to the Defense Department budget Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today passed The National Defense Authorization Act which outlines next year’s military spending and averts the deep cuts to America’s military strength advocated by the President. The measure authorizes a modest pay increase for our soldiers, establishes a robust national missile defense and fully funds requests for 29 F-35 Lightning II aircraft made in Texas. The legislation also limits the number of troops that can be withdrawn from the force in Afghanistan in a single year and mandates the President notify Congress of any planned force reductions. It also prohibits the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States and reinforces the United States’ commitment to use all elements of national power to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. “NDAA is a responsible measure that addresses concerns about America’s mounting debt and ensures that our armed forces have the resources they need to protect us in an increasingly dangerous world,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady. “The primary constitutional responsibility of Congress is to provide for the common defense and the President’s raid on the military in order to pay for social spending excesses is wildly inconsistent with the threats faced by this country. We live in a very dangerous world and our defense preparedness should reflect that fact.”
05.16.2012	Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4970 reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act for another five years by a vote of 222 to 205. VAWA provides federal assistance for programs and organizations that assist women who are victims of domestic share: f t Brady applauds focus on clearing backlog of untested rape kits; calls current backlog "unconscionable" Washington D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4970 reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act for another five years by a vote of 222 to 205. VAWA provides federal assistance for programs and organizations that assist women who are victims of domestic abuse, stalking and sexual assault. “This bill lengthens prison time for sexual assault and abuse, improves the way we help women transition out of a dangerous situation at home, and closes a loophole that has left women on Indian reservations at greater risk of abuse,“ said U.S. Congressman Brady, a Republican from Texas. “For too long the White House and federal government has turned a blind eye to the growing backlog of untested rape kits, which is unconscionable for the victims of sexual assault," said Brady. “We’re finally getting serious about clearing that backlog, linking perpetrators to these terrible crimes and preventing other women from future assaults.” VAWA includes a mandatory 10 year penalty for aggravated sexual abuse, promotes educational awareness to prevent violence and improves services for young victims. It also funds state rape prevention education programs, creates a new National Center for Campus Public Safety in the Department of Justice and provides greater protections to Indian women by allowing victims to seek protection orders from U.S. District Courts.
05.10.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives voted 218-199 today to stop automatic spending cuts on America's military might and replace them with even larger savings by closing tax loopholes and targeting fraud within the federal government. share: f t Brady targets tax loopholes and fraud to cut deficit, protect America’s military strengthWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives voted 218-199 today to stop automatic spending cuts on America’s military might and replace them with even larger savings by closing tax loopholes and targeting fraud within the federal government. America’s armed forces face nearly a trillion dollars in cuts beginning next year which would shrink the country’s ground force to the smallest since WWII and reduce the Air Force to its smallest size in history. The Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, called the impacts of these security cuts ‘devastating’. “Replacing these automatic, deep cuts to America’s military strength with savings from fraud and waste is critical,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. “Yes, the Pentagon needs to tighten its belt but not at the sacrifice of our military men and women fighting to protect us. Especially when the government wastes so much of our tax dollars. For example, in this bill we close a $7.6 billion loophole to stop illegal immigrants from receiving child tax checks fraudulently.” The House also identified $33 billion in savings by stopping abuses within the food stamp program. A recent report detailed an Ohio woman with a $300,000 home, a Mercedes luxury car and $80,000 in the bank who still drew food stamps. The Republican measure also cuts slush funds from ObamaCare and the Dodd-Frank banking overhaul, protects doctors and health care providers from frivolous medical lawsuits and forces members of Congress and federal workers to contribute more to their pensions to bring them in line with Main Street.
05.09.2012	The House of Representatives today passed a three-year extension of the EXIM Bank, raising its lending limits to $140 billion but including for the first time reforms which protect taxpayers and set the stage for eventually eliminating government export s share: f t Washington, DC – The House of Representatives today passed a three-year extension of the EXIM Bank, raising its lending limits to $140 billion but including for the first time reforms which protect taxpayers and set the stage for eventually eliminating government export subsidies. The EXIM Bank helps finance the sales of American goods and service overseas which support jobs in the U.S. The House-passed bill was supported by American manufacturers who face aggressive lending subsidies by competitors from China, Brazil and Europe. Many experts believe if Congress acts alone to abolish the EXIM Bank and unilaterally end the financing - while other countries continue theirs - it will put American businesses at a major disadvantage when competing in the international marketplace. “Business as usual is not an option. These reforms are long overdue and take the first serious steps toward ending the global battle of government export subsidies,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the chairman of the Trade sub-committee of the House Ways & Means Committee. “This is a smart way to keep our American companies and their workers competitive while we send a strong message to China, Brazil and Europe that the days of these subsidies are numbered. The reforms include directing the Secretary of the Treasury to enter into multi-country negotiations to begin reducing and eliminating government lending subsidies around the world, protecting U.S. taxpayers with an early warning system on defaults, giving taxpayers a first priority for repayment and aggressive oversight of EXIM’s risk management and loan guarantees.
05.08.2012	Sound Dollar Act reforms the Federal Reserve to focus on preserving the purchasing power of the dollar; makes the Fed more transparent and accountable. share: f t Sound Dollar Act reforms the Federal Reserve to focus on preserving the purchasing power of the dollar; makes the Fed more transparent and accountableWatch the video here. Read the written testimony here.
05.04.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today called that the 130,000 increase in the number of private sector jobs the economy created during April, "Another in a ser share: f t Washington, DC— Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, today called that the 130,000 increase in the number of private sector jobs the economy created during April, “Another in a series of disappointments President Obama’s policies have inflicted upon hardworking Americans eager to see the economy grow.” “The most striking thing about this report is that the labor force participation rate has fallen to 63.6%, its lowest level since December 1981,” Brady said. “The unemployment rate declined for the wrong reason—people wanting work leaving the labor force.” “If we factored in the decline in the share of Americans in the labor force because of the workers who have dropped out of the job market entirely, the unemployment rate would be 11.5%,” Brady noted. “The president and his team will undoubtedly boast that April’s job figures mark the 26th consecutive month of private sector job growth, in which over 4 million private payroll jobs have been added. Yet, this figure pales when compared to recoveries from past severe recessions.” Brady noted that over a comparable 26 month period during the Reagan recovery, private sector jobs increased by more than 10% or at 2 ½ times the rate of the Obama recovery. If jobs had increased in this recovery at the pace of the Reagan recovery we would have another 6.5 million jobs today. We’d have more private sector jobs than at any point in the nation’s history. “The difference is that Reagan took an entirely different approach than President Obama,” Brady said. “Since President Obama has taken office he has placed his faith in the ability of government to solve problems and pursued an agenda that seeks to punish job creators with higher taxes and more regulation. Reagan sought to reduce the role of government with less spending, lower taxes and less regulation. It’s pretty clear that Reagan’s approach works better,” Brady continued. “Rather than attack those who seek to create jobs, the government should get out of their way.” “If a picture is worth a thousand words, the graph supplied below speaks millions,” Brady said. “People can judge for themselves which president did a better job and which policies worked best. President Obama has seen fit to cite Mr. Reagan’s example when it has suited him. He would do better to start acting like him.”
05.01.2012	Malone this morning about the latest EPA controversy and the White House Correspondents Dinner. Malone this morning about the latest EPA controversy and the White House Correspondents Dinner. share: f t Subheading TestTexas -- Malone this morning about the latest EPA controversy and the White House Correspondents Dinner. Malone this morning about the latest EPA controversy and the White House Correspondents Dinner.
04.27.2012	U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, reacted to today's report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis that real GDP grew at an annualized rate of 2.2% during share: f t Obama Policies Holding Back the Economy Washington DC— U.S. Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, reacted to today’s report from the Bureau of Economic Analysis that real GDP grew at an annualized rate of 2.2% during the 1st-quarter 2012. Brady said, “While I am thankful that the economy continues to expand, the damage being done by the Obama Administration’s policies have produced a weak recovery. In the eleven quarters since the end of the recession GDP growth has averaged only 2.4%. That’s less than half the 6.1% we averaged during the Reagan recovery.” Expressing concern Brady noted, “Fixed business investment actually declined at an annual rate of 2.1%. This is the first decline in fixed business investment since the fourth quarter of 2009. Fixed business investment still has not recovered to prerecession levels. It is this kind of investment that drives job creation in the private sector, not large buildups in inventories. We need to get government out of the way and let the free market create jobs and opportunity for all Americans.”
04.26.2012	Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, testified at a subcommittee hearing on expired and expiring tax credits and deductions. Mr. Brady focused his time on important research and development tax credits that share: f t Watch video here.Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, testified at a subcommittee hearing on expired and expiring tax credits and deductions. Mr. Brady focused his time on important research and development tax credits that foster American innovation, the sales tax deduction that Texas families rely on and ending the Death Tax which is the number one reason family farms, ranches and small businesses aren't passed down to the next generation.
04.25.2012	In today's House Ways & Means Subcommittee hearing on moving Americans from Unemployment Checks to Paychecks, senior committee member Kevin Brady grilled a top Department of Labor (DOL) official over the Obama Administration delaying unemployment refo share: f t Watch the Video here. In today's House Ways & Means Subcommittee hearing on moving Americans from Unemployment Checks to Paychecks, senior committee member Kevin Brady grilled a top Department of Labor (DOL) official over the Obama Administration delaying unemployment reforms passed by Congress and signed by the President. In this clip, Congressman Brady isquestioning DOL Assistant Secretary for the Employment and Training Administration Jane Oates, who previously worked for the late Senator Ted Kennedy and former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine. Oates now heads the DOL office responsible for unemployment insurance (UI) and other employment and training programs, including the waiver program that Texas is seeking to utilize to get people off unemployment checks and back to collecting paychecks. However, the administration continues to stall implementingthe waiver program with unnecessary 'guidance' which was one of the topics of today's hearing. Texas Workforce Commission Executive Director Larry Temple spoke about the burdens created by the guidance. Watch the entire hearing online here.
04.24.2012	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady announced today that Hunter Puckett of Orangefield High School will represent the Eighth Congressional District at the 2012 Congressional Art Competition held in Washington, DC. Hunter's award-winning artwork, Just Five Mo share: f t Hunter Puckett's art will give Americans "a glimpse of what life is like in our very special corner of Texas” Orange, Texas – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady announced today that Hunter Puckett of Orangefield High School will represent the Eighth Congressional District at the 2012 Congressional Art Competition held in Washington, DC. Hunter’s award-winning artwork, Just Five More Minutes, Mom, has already been named Best of Show at the Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo. “Our district is home to some very talented and accomplished young artists," said Brady. "I couldn't be prouder that Just Five More Minutes, Mom will hang in the U.S. Capitol so thousands of Americans will get a glimpse of what life is like in our very special corner of Texas.” Winners from each congressional district get to have their artwork displayed at the nation’s capitol for an entire year, and they are recognized in the district as well as the annual Awards Ceremony in Washington, D.C. Hunter and a guest will be flown to Washington, DC by Southwest Airlines, a sponsor of the competition where they will attend a reception with other young artists chosen to represent their congressional districts. The Congressional Art Competition requires that all artwork be original in concept and design and that all artists be high school students.
04.23.2012	Today's annual reports from the trustees for Social Security and Medicare showed no improvement in the programs' fiscal health. The Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, which pays for Medicare Part A, showed no improvement and is expected to ex share: f t Brady Warns "Act Now" To Preserve Both Programs for Future Generations Washington, DC – Today’s annual reports from the trustees for Social Security and Medicare showed no improvement in the programs’ fiscal health. The Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund, which pays for Medicare Part A, showed no improvement and is expected to exhaust its reserves in just twelve years - 2024 - the same as projected last year. Social Security, which last year had to borrow $142 billion from investors in China and around the world to pay benefits to America's elderly, will exhaust its reserves in 2035, a year earlier than projected in last year’s report. “Doing nothing ends Medicare and Social Security as we know it for my mom and for yours," warns U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means and a member of the Social Security panel. "President Obama has done nothing to save these important programs, the Senate the same. Only House Republicans have shown the courage to pass a plan to save Medicare for every generation, young and old." “We need a president with the backbone to sit down with Congress and save these programs for every generation once and for all. Act now and we can preserve them; kick the can down the road for more years and it becomes much harder,” added Brady. “With the retirement and health care of our elderly at stake, why wait?" The President’s health care reform law has done little to make Medicare solvent. “The House has passed a budget with a plan to save Medicare, while ObamaCare begins stripping the program of a half-billion in funding AFTER the November election,” Brady continued. “It’s past time to put these programs on a firmer financial footing, especially as the baby boomers retire and we are all living longer.”
04.23.2012	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, called out the White House on their claim today that Medicare and the nation's elderly will save money from the president's new health care law. The Administra share: f t Elderly will face major cuts, higher prices - but timed to occur after November election Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Committee on Ways and Means, called out the White House on their claim today that Medicare and the nation's elderly will save money from the president's new health care law. The Administration is using this report to highlight the new health law’s seemingly positive effects on Medicare prior to 2016. "What the President is not telling our seniors is that after the November election hundreds of billions of dollars in cuts to Medicare will land squarely on their backs -- forcing millions of elderly out of their Medicare Advantage plans, raising their medicine prices and making it harder to get treated at a local hospital or nursing home," says Brady. "This is an election year, so all this is timed to happen after seniors go to the polls in November. For the elderly, this is a terribly cynical political ploy." Testifying at a recent House Ways & Means Committee, White House officials acknowledged that less than five percent of over $500 billion in cuts to Medicare mandated by ObamaCare have taken place. The Health & Human Services agency has admitted they've handed out an extra $7 billion to senior programs in advance of the November elections to delay the cuts that will come next year. “The White House is trying to hide the pain that ObamaCare will cause to seniors and to Medicare. Once the temporary election-year bonus program ends, our seniors will be hurt hard," says Brady.
04.20.2012	Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) statement in support of the letter initiated by Ways and Means Member Tom Reed (R-NY) and signed by 65 House freshmen Members in support of the Miscellaneous Tarif share: f t Washington, DC – Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) made the following statement today in support of the letter initiated by Ways and Means Member Tom Reed (R-NY) and signed by 65 House freshmen Members in support of the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill (MTB) process:"The letter championed by Congressman Reed and signed by these 65 freshmen Members demonstrates their commitment to ensuring the health of the manufacturing sector and job creation in America. Action on the MTB will lower costs for these employers by reducing taxes and, in some cases, protecting them from tax increases that would occur at the end of the year. Importantly, unlike in years past, the reformed MTB process discloses whether the benefits of the provisions are broadly available and therefore not earmarks. This process, in which all bills, Member disclosures, and agency and public comments are posted on our website, represents a model for transparency and accountability that Republican Members, including our freshmen, can be proud of. We look forward to moving this important legislation through Congress on a bipartisan basis and again congratulate Congressman Reed and his freshmen colleagues for their efforts.”The letter can be read here.More information on the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill process can be found here.
04.19.2012	Participants:Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX)Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN)Congressman Aaron Schock (R-IL)Congressman Pete Olson (R-TX)Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-MN)Congressman Bobby Schilling (R-IL) share: f t Click to Play Video Republican Leadership Press Conference on Small Business Tax Cut Bill that passed the HouseApril 19, 2012 Participants:Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX)Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN)Congressman Aaron Schock (R-IL)Congressman Pete Olson (R-TX)Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-MN)Congressman Bobby Schilling (R-IL) You can also watch my floor speech here.
04.19.2012	A proposal to shut down a tax loophole that allows illegal immigrants to fraudulently collect billions of dollars in government checks passed out of the U.S. House Committee on Ways & Means by a 22-12 party line vote. "This is long overdue. Why are hard share: f t Brady, Republicans Support Anti-Fraud MeasureWashington, D.C. -- A proposal to shut down a tax loophole that allows illegal immigrants to fraudulently collect billions of dollars in government checks passed out of the U.S. House Committee on Ways & Means by a 22-12 party line vote. Committee Republicans proposed and supported the measure.The bill stops illegal immigrants and others from obtaining child tax refunds through the IRS by requiring they provide a valid Social Security number on forms in the future. Currently the law only requires a taxpayer identification number for the refundable credit which can be obtained without proof of legal residence in the U.S.“This is long overdue. Why are hardworking Americans sending their taxes to Washington to have them lost to fraud and abuse in the tax system?” asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the committee. “By closing this loophole, the IRS will be able to immediately deny tax refunds when proper Social Security numbers are missing. And that means your taxes won’t go to those who are in America illegally.”Democrats on the committee unanimously objected to closing the loophole, but Brady and other members pointed out that a similar refundable credit in the tax code – the earned income tax credit – already requires a valid Social Security number. “Is Congress going to get serious about ending fraud or not?” asks Brady. According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, this reform will save taxpayers $7.6 billion over ten years. The legislation is championed by Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX). The House Ways and Means Committee identified $68 billion in cuts to wasteful spending as its share of the House’s effort to trim $261 billion over the next few years. The Senate has not proposed or passed a budget in the last three years.
04.17.2012	Joining my colleagues in the House and Senate to speak out for the Fair Tax. share: f t Watch the video here.
04.11.2012	Texas Tax Freedom Day has arrived -- four days later this year than last and our National Tax Freedom Day falls next Tuesday on the deadline for all Americans to send in their tax returns. That means Texans worked four more days this year – until to share: f t TEXAS -- Texas Tax Freedom Dayhas arrived -- four days later this year than last and our National Tax Freedom Day falls next Tuesday on the deadline for all Americans to send in their tax returns. That means Texans worked four more days this year – until today, April 11 -- just to pay their federal, state and local taxes and Americans as a whole have to wait even longer. "As Texas families scramble to fill out reams of annual tax forms, they are realizing that all their hard work so far this year has been just to pay their taxes. How ridiculous is that?" asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee."What’s even sadder is that Texans worked for nearly a third of the year-- from New Years Day to today -- just to pay their taxes yet President Obama and Congressional Democrats still don’t think Americans pay enough," If taxes were raised to cover the current budget deficit, America's Tax Freedom Day would fall nearly a month later -- even though the average working American already pays more in taxes now than to feed, clothe and shelter their families. "Hard working families should not be spending more on government than they do on food, clothing and shelter for their families," added Brady.“It's time for President Obama to stop polarizing the country against efforts to get our nation's financial house in order and join House conservative efforts to fix the problem -- including paying off the extra $5 trillion he's added to the national debt.” More information on Texas Tax Freedom Day can be found here.National Tax Freedom Day Doesn’t Arrive until Tax Filing Day TEXAS -- Texas Tax Freedom Day has arrived -- four days later this year than last and our National Tax Freedom Day falls next Tuesday on the deadline for all Americans to send in their tax returns. That means Texans worked four more days this year – until today, April 11 -- just to pay their federal, state and local taxes and Americans as a whole have to wait even longer. "As Texas families scramble to fill out reams of annual tax forms, they are realizing that all their hard work so far this year has been just to pay their taxes. How ridiculous is that?" asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee."What’s even sadder is that Texans worked for nearly a third of the year-- from New Years Day to today -- just to pay their taxes yet President Obama and Congressional Democrats still don’t think Americans pay enough," If taxes were raised to cover the current budget deficit, America's Tax Freedom Day would fall nearly a month later -- even though the average working American already pays more in taxes now than to feed, clothe and shelter their families. "Hard working families should not be spending more on government than they do on food, clothing and shelter for their families," added Brady.“It's time for President Obama to stop polarizing the country against efforts to get our nation's financial house in order and join House conservative efforts to fix the problem -- including paying off the extra $5 trillion he's added to the national debt.” More information on Texas Tax Freedom Day can be found here.
04.09.2012	A senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee is outraged that the Obama Administration stop spending $500 million to hire ‘a slew' of new IRS agents to enforce ObamaCare's individual mandate. share: f t Brady calls on Obama Administration to halt ‘financially reckless’ spending and wait for the high court’s ruling Texas – A senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee is outraged that the Obama Administration stop spending $500 million to hire ‘a slew’ of new IRS agents to enforce ObamaCare’s individual mandate. “IRS enforcement of this terrible law was something the House Ways & Means Committee pointed out early on, but the White House denied it,” said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, who says these funds, buried in ObamaCare’s nearly 3000 pages, were specifically placed outside the usual appropriations process so the IRS could beef up quickly to become ObamaCare’s enforcer. “Why the rush, Mr. President?” asked Brady, who filed HR 663 to stop the implementation of ObamaCare until the high court rules on the unpopular individual mandate. “Since the law could be struck down within the next couple of months, this decision is financially reckless at best.” “Already new taxes and fees are being put into effect so it shouldn’t come as a surprise to this administration that hard-working Americans will be furious that the White House is rushing to spend the $1 billion ObamaCare implementation ‘slush fund,’” added Brady. “While the administration tells us they are perfectly within this badly written law, the best course of action would be to step back and take a look at what they are doing. With these dangerous levels of debt, spending everything in that fund before the Supreme Court has its say is just plain reckless.” Ways & Means Oversight Committee Letter can be found here. The Treasury Department’s response can be found here.
04.03.2012	TEXAS - President Obama's budget speech today was just another example of putting politics over policy. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says instead of being part of the solution President Obama continues to exacerbate the tensions by attacking the only chamber of Congress taking the budget process seriously. "President Obama's White House has become a Glass House from him to throw stones from," said Brady. "Instead of running on his record and explaining to the American people why he added $5 trillion in debt after promising them to cut the deficit in half, he is blaming House Republicans for doing their jobs. Instead of telling the Senate -- controlled by his party -- to do their work, he is attacking the House for being responsible to the American people.""Mr. President, not even a single House Democrat voted for your budget plan," added Brady. "Why? Because a wish list of more government spending is not what the American people are demanding from their leaders in Washington. They want us to cut spending, stop borrowing from their kids and grandkids and save Social Security and Medicare for future generations. All things we can do -- if we have leadership, not stone throwing, from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue."TEXAS - President Obama's budget speech today was just another example of putting politics over policy. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says instead of being part of the solution President Obama continues to exacerbate the tensions by attacking the only chamber of Congress taking the budget process seriously. "President Obama's White House has become a Glass House from him to throw stones from," said Brady. "Instead of running on his record and explaining to the American people why he added $5 trillion in debt after promising them to cut the deficit in half, he is blaming House Republicans for doing their jobs. Instead of telling the Senate -- controlled by his party -- to do their work, he is attacking the House for being responsible to the American people." "Mr. President, not even a single House Democrat voted for your budget plan," added Brady. "Why? Because a wish list of more government spending is not what the American people are demanding from their leaders in Washington. They want us to cut spending, stop borrowing from their kids and grandkids and save Social Security and Medicare for future generations. All things we can do -- if we have leadership, not stone throwing, from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue."
04.03.2012	President Obama's budget speech today was just another example of putting politics over policy. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says instead of share: f t TEXAS - President Obama's budget speech today was just another example of putting politics over policy. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says instead of being part of the solution President Obama continues to exacerbate the tensions by attacking the only chamber of Congress taking the budget process seriously. "President Obama's White House has become a Glass House from him to throw stones from," said Brady. "Instead of running on his record and explaining to the American people why he added $5 trillion in debt after promising them to cut the deficit in half, he is blaming House Republicans for doing their jobs. Instead of telling the Senate -- controlled by his party -- to do their work, he is attacking the House for being responsible to the American people." "Mr. President, not even a single House Democrat voted for your budget plan," added Brady. "Why? Because a wish list of more government spending is not what the American people are demanding from their leaders in Washington. They want us to cut spending, stop borrowing from their kids and grandkids and save Social Security and Medicare for future generations. All things we can do -- if we have leadership, not stone throwing, from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue."TEXAS - President Obama's budget speech today was just another example of putting politics over policy. Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says instead of being part of the solution President Obama continues to exacerbate the tensions by attacking the only chamber of Congress taking the budget process seriously. "President Obama's White House has become a Glass House from him to throw stones from," said Brady. "Instead of running on his record and explaining to the American people why he added $5 trillion in debt after promising them to cut the deficit in half, he is blaming House Republicans for doing their jobs. Instead of telling the Senate -- controlled by his party -- to do their work, he is attacking the House for being responsible to the American people." "Mr. President, not even a single House Democrat voted for your budget plan," added Brady. "Why? Because a wish list of more government spending is not what the American people are demanding from their leaders in Washington. They want us to cut spending, stop borrowing from their kids and grandkids and save Social Security and Medicare for future generations. All things we can do -- if we have leadership, not stone throwing, from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue."
03.31.2012	Unfortunately, America is going from first to worst -- from having one of the lowest business tax rates in the world to having the highest among our global competitors -- placing our companies, our farmers, our workers at a major disadvantage. On April 1 U.S. Business Tax Rate to be Highest in the World SundayHouse Economic Leader says this places "our companies, our farmers, our workers" at a "major disadvantage"Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the tax writing House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement ahead of the United States’ combined federal-state corporate tax rate becoming the highest in the industrialized world on April 1, 2012:"Unfortunately, America is going from first to worst -- from having one of the lowest business tax rates in the world to having the highest among our global competitors -- placing our companies, our farmers, our workers at a major disadvantage. On April 1st, American companies will be able to land fewer contracts, sell fewer products and hire fewer American workers."In the Ways and Means Committee that I serve on, we're working to change that. This past fall we released a business tax reform draft that would lower the rate to 25 percent. And to ensure our competitiveness, we also streamline the red tape in the tax code to make it fairer and end double taxation. That’s what it is going to take to compete in a world where China, where Europe, where Latin American and other countries have taken a page from our playbook -- lower taxes, balanced regulations and a skilled workforce. And frankly, this weekend, they are beating us with our playbook. It is time for America to get back in the game."Learn more about the House Ways & Means plan here. share: f t 3/31/12 9:01
03.29.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives approved a budget today that cuts wasteful Washington spending, shrinks the size of the federal government, takes the first step to preserve Social Security and Medicare for every generation and cuts federal taxes. share: f t Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives approved a budget today that cuts wasteful Washington spending, shrinks the size of the federal government, takes the first step to preserve Social Security and Medicare for every generation and cuts federal taxes. The GOP budget was approved – 228-191 – with the support of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican in Congress on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. "If you like the direction our country is going – more debt, more deficits, more despair – than the President’s budget is the path for you. But I want to change the course of our country and President Obama’s struggling economy so I supported the GOP budget as a solid first step toward putting America back on the path to prosperity and paying down its debt,” said Brady. “Clearly the President failed on his promise to cut the deficit in half his first term – it’s nearly tripled in size. For our kids' sakes, Washington can’t keep spending money it doesn’t have for jobs it doesn’t get. Americans deserve as better future.” The House also unanimously rejected – 414-0 – the President’s budget which never balances and calls for record deficits, higher taxes and no reforms to save Social Security or Medicare. As a member of the House conservatives, Brady also supported the Republican Study Committee’s “Cut, Cap & Balance” budget which balances Washington’s books in only five years. That measure was defeated 136-285. Congressional Economic Leader says "more debt, more deficits, more despair" is the wrong direction Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives approved a budget today that cuts wasteful Washington spending, shrinks the size of the federal government, takes the first step to preserve Social Security and Medicare for every generation and cuts federal taxes. The GOP budget was approved – 228-191 – with the support of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican in Congress on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. "If you like the direction our country is going – more debt, more deficits, more despair – than the President’s budget is the path for you. But I want to change the course of our country and President Obama’s struggling economy so I supported the GOP budget as a solid first step toward putting America back on the path to prosperity and paying down its debt,” said Brady. “Clearly the President failed on his promise to cut the deficit in half his first term – it’s nearly tripled in size. For our kids' sakes, Washington can’t keep spending money it doesn’t have for jobs it doesn’t get. Americans deserve as better future.” The House also unanimously rejected – 414-0 – the President’s budget which never balances and calls for record deficits, higher taxes and no reforms to save Social Security or Medicare. As a member of the House conservatives, Brady also supported the Republican Study Committee’s “Cut, Cap & Balance” budget which balances Washington’s books in only five years. That measure was defeated 136-285.
03.29.2012	Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement on the President's latest disengenious attack on American energy manufacturing. share: f t Brady says the President "still doesn't grasp the difference between a subsidy and a true business expense" Washington, DC – As President Obama prepares for a press conference today from the White House urging the Senate to raise taxes on American energy manufacturing, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued this statement: “Here we go again. As smart as he is, the President still doesn’t grasp the difference between a subsidy and a true business expense. Raising taxes on our energy manufacturers – and make no mistake this is what he does - will mean less American-made energy, fewer American jobs and more expensive fuel at the pump. It’s no wonder we have an unemployment crisis in America and the Obama economy continues to struggle.”
03.28.2012	There are fewer jobs in America today than when this president took his oath of office. So, we are going to talk about this budget and its impact on America's economy. share: f t Watch the video here. Transcript of Vice Chairman Brady's introduction to tonight's Floor Debate: "At the end of the day the Republican budget developed by our Budget Chairman Paul Ryan is a jobs bill. We know America faces an unemployment crisis today greater than any time during the depression. We know roughly 23 million Americans can’t even find a full time job. We know that while government spending has rebounded and other factors have rebounded in this economy, what we know is that jobs have not rebounded." "There are fewer jobs in America today than when this president took his oath of office. So, we are going to talk about this budget and its impact on America’s economy. The truth of the matter is, if you like the way or economy is going, if you think this is the best we can do, stick with the President’s budget, stick with the democrat’s budget, it stays the course. If you think we can do better for American hard working tax payers and job seekers. There is a choice of two futures." Watch the closing statement here.
03.27.2012	Today President Obama's Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) unveiled a controversial new rule that will ultimately close the door on new coal-fired utility plants in the future, a move that critics say imposes a de facto energy tax on American famil share: f t White House attempt to circumvent Congress to impose Cap & Trade through back-door will kill jobs, drive up energy costs for families & businesses WASHINGTON, DC – Today President Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) unveiled a controversial new rule that will ultimately close the door on new coal-fired utility plants in the future, a move that critics say imposes a de facto energy tax on American families and businesses and the death blow for one of America's most affordable energy sources. “His own Democratic Congress rejected the President’s cap-and-trade scheme and now he’s trying to impose this mandate through the back-door of regulation. This will kill American jobs and drive up utility bills for Texas families and businesses,” said Brady. “Why are we handcuffing the plants that generate affordable electricity to so many of our homes and small businesses? This is more of the extreme environmental agenda that convinced President Obama to deny the Keystone XL pipeline.” Because White House red-tape like this that will cause more than a trillion dollars in damage to America’s economy, House Republicans this session have repeatedly sought to block and repeal global warming mandates rushed through by the White House, but the EPA continues to aggressively take controversial actions to shut down coal plants across the country. "There is bi-partisan outrage on this attack on coal," added Brady. "This ridiculous and ill-conceived rule will kill the construction of new coal-fired utility plants and have a devastating effect on electricity rates, as well as our struggling economy. With this latest massive government over reach, the EPA is once again showing us that affordable, accessible American energy is never going to be a priority for this administration."
03.22.2012	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, one of the 159 new federal agencies and programs created under the Democrat's two year old health care takeover law. share: f t IPAB Repeal Vote Marks House's 26th ObamaCare Repeal Vote Washington, DC -- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board, one of the 159 new federal agencies and programs created under the Democrat's two year old health care takeover law. "We can do better for the American Public than this horrible health care law and we're doing that today," said Texas Congressman Kevin Brady whose health care chart shows how this legislation puts levels upon levels of bureaucracy between patients and their doctors. "Today, we voted to repeal this rationing board, because America's seniors don't need 15 unelected bureaucrats making life or death decisions for them. I have no doubt that if this is not repealed, my mother and everyone else who relies on Medicare will someday see their treatments limited by these unelected bureaucrats." "The President and congressional Democrats like to claim ‘we're not rationing’ because the government will not actually deny treatment to a senior who needs care. What they don’t tell you is that this unelected board has a mandate and the power to deny reimbursements to the local doctor, hospital or health care provider so they can’t afford to treat the senior,” says Brady. “If that’s not rationing, I don’t know what is.” In repealing the IPAB board, the House voted to cancel 15 Presidentially appointed positions with annual salaries of $165,300 and address junk medical lawsuits that raise the costs of health care in America. "Frankly, I'd rather reimburse our doctors fairly and remove the fear of unsubstantiated malpractice lawsuits than waste tax dollars on more bureaucrats," concluded Brady.
03.21.2012	Congressman Kevin Brady Speaks Out on the House Floor Tonight for the Repeal of the Independent Patient Advisory Board. share: f t Watch the video of tonight's floor speech here. Download the chart here. Washington, DC -- Here is the text of Congressman Kevin Brady's Floor Speech:"Thank You, Madame Speaker. Thank you, Chairman Camp. Many members of Congress didn't have the time or the decision/choice to read this new health care law before it became law. After it passed, I asked our economists on the Joint Economic Committee -- they spent four months going through every page and provision of this new law to show the American public just what this new health care takeover looked like. They went through all 2,300 pages of the bill and (points to chart) this is what the new health care law in America looks like. Well, not completely. We could only fit 1/3rd of all that new bureaucracy on one page. Here are the physicians, over in that corner are the patients, and in-between are 159 new federal agencies and bureaucrats in-between you and your doctor. We can do better for the American Public than this horrible health care law and we're doing that today."Today we're going to take on... this chart the way it works everything in dark blue is a new expansion of government; everything in orange potential rationing boards; everything in green is a trillion dollar of new tax increases or slashing cuts to Medicare. All the light blue provisions deal with the expansion of government into the free market, but today we're gonna act. We're not going to wait. We're going to act to repeal one of the key rationing boards -- this Independent Payment Advisory Board -- you've heard today -- 15 unelected bureaucrats who'll make life or death decisions about treatment in the future. My mom is one of those Medicare seniors who, I have no doubt if this is not repealed, will someday see her treatments limited by these unelected bureaucrats."Our Democrat friends say 'we're not rationing, because the government will not actually say no to a senior who needs care, they just won't reimburse the doctor or the local hospital or the local hospice care to take care of them.' I don't know what you call that but I call that 'rationing' and this board has unlimited power to slash even more than that and Congress is virtually powerless to stop it. This is America. We don't allow these bureaucrats to make these life and death decisions."Republicans in this House are going to repeal this dangerous bureaucracy and we are -- when we get a chance -- replacing it with affordable health care for America. I yield back."
03.21.2012	This Thursday, the president will take his energy roadshow to Cushing, Oklahoma, to proclaim victory for "approving" the southern portion of the Keystone XL pipeline. However, a closer look shows us otherwise. share: f t The Keystone XL Southern Leg:President Obama’s Al Gore Moment? This Thursday, the president will take his energy roadshow to Cushing, Oklahoma, to proclaim victory for “approving” the southern portion of the Keystone XL pipeline. Some reports even indicate that he intends to announce a plan – and, no doubt, to claim credit – for expediting its construction. This segment of the pipeline will connect the storage and transportation hub at Cushing to the refining center of Houston and Port Arthur, Texas—a fraction of the original project. The president will try to characterize the project as a celebration of his accomplishments in approving pipelines, and his move to fast track the permit as atonement for rejecting the larger project. However, a closer look shows us otherwise. • The southern leg of the Keystone XL pipeline is being constructed in spite of the president—not because of him. Because this portion of the project does not cross an international border, no presidential permit is needed. The only outstanding issues are a Clean Water Act permit handled by the Army Corps of Engineers and a Biological Opinion handled by the Fish and Wildlife Service—approvals that should have been granted long ago, but for the Obama administration’s continued foot dragging, delaying approval of the project that has been under review for more than three years. For the president to claim credit for speeding up a process that his team delayed is misleading and purely political theater. • Keystone XL was intended to be a large pipeline project that brings nearly one million barrels of secure oil per day from Alberta, North Dakota, and Montana to the world’s largest refining center along the U.S. Gulf Coast. While construction of the Oklahoma-to-Texas segment will help move some oil to refineries and address the transport of crude already reaching the U.S., it does little to improve our energy security. If bringing additional Canadian oil supplies into the U.S. were truly a goal of this president, we would be celebrating the approval of a cross-border pipeline instead of this consolation prize. The president is trying to play the role of Santa Claus is coming to town, but really he is the Grinch who stole the pipeline. • President Obama states he has approved dozens of pipelines. In truth, pipelines have been constructed when he was not in a position to stop them. There is only one category of pipeline that requires presidential approval—an international pipeline like the originally proposed version of Keystone XL. This president has approved just one such project: the Alberta Clipper pipeline in 2009. But a truly notable milestone that the president probably won’t mention on his PR tour is that Keystone XL is the first time in history a Presidential Permit for a cross-border pipeline has ever been denied. Not the kind of history the president should be making in the current economy. • Embracing an “all of the above” energy strategy that will improve energy security requires us to reduce imports from dangerous overseas regimes. Blocking Canadian and American oil from reaching U.S. refineries takes us in the opposite direction. Even if President Obama thinks he deserves credit for construction of a pipeline from Oklahoma to Texas—a highly dubious claim—this does not remotely resemble a record of making energy security and affordability a top priority. Today’s staggering gas prices come as the country sees a failed energy policy by this administration. • President Obama believes he can take credit for approving Keystone XL’s southern leg, but he does not control this segment’s permitting process. This interstate pipeline requires numerous permits from state authorities, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Fish and Wildlife Service, but nothing from the White House. If the president gets credit for this project, perhaps Al Gore should get credit for inventing the Internet after all.
03.09.2012	While I am pleased that the economy is at long last adding more than the approximately 130,000 jobs necessary to keep up with the growth in population, Brady said, "we still have a long way back to where we were before the last recession.""The recessi share: f t Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee today hailed last month’s increase in the number of newly created payroll jobs last month, but cautioned that the nation’s economic recovery is proceeding too slowly to give most people comfort.The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy added 227,000 payroll jobs last month and that the unemployment rate was 8.3% for the month of February.“While I am pleased that the economy is at long last adding more than the approximately 130,000 jobs necessary to keep up with the growth in population, Brady said,” “we still have a long way back to where we were before the last recession.”“The recession ended in June 2009, more than 32 months ago,” Brady continued. “I do not think those still out of work or looking for work will take much comfort in today’s job numbers.”“I find it incredible that the Obama administration is attributing this all too slow increase in payroll jobs to its policies,” Brady said. “This is the crowd that told us that its stimulus proposals would hold the unemployment rate below 8% and that it would be cut to nearly 6% by February 2012. A more accurate description of the economic news is that, any improvement that we are seeing is the result of the hard work of the American people and the resilience of the American economy, not from the administration’s policies, but in spite of them.”“If the administration was truly determined to put American back to work, it would not be wasting taxpayers’ money on hair-brained schemes like Solyndra, piling up levels of debt that even the President calls ‘unsustainable,’ repeatedly calling for tax hikes on the American people, stifling sure job-creators such as the Keystone XL pipeline, and strangling the energy, health care, and financial sectors of our economy in Gordian Knots of regulation,” Brady concluded. “Didn’t Einstein define insanity as doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results? That describes the approach the administration has taken on the economy these past three years to a tee.”
03.08.2012	Today, the House took another step towards repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board, a controversial panel of bureaucrats created in ObamaCare, when the House Ways and Means Committee voted for H.R. 452, the "Medicare Decisions Accountability Act. share: f t If IPAB is Not Repealed, Medicare would eventually face rationing by unelected bureaucrats Washington, DC -- Today, the House took another step towards repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board, a controversial panel of bureaucrats created in ObamaCare, when the House Ways and Means Committee voted for H.R. 452, the “Medicare Decisions Accountability Act.” "If this unelected bureaucracy is not repealed, Medicare will eventually be rationed for my mom and other seniors," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the Ways & Means Committee. "The elderly already have trouble finding doctors who will treat them. Just wait until ObamaCare starts rationing reimbursements for critical care and treatments they need simply to balance the ObamaCare budget." "The sick will pay the price, the elderly will pay the price," added Brady. "And perhaps the most troubling secret about this rationing board is that is has near unlimited power with no accountability, no judicial review, and no transparency requirements. There is nothing in ObamaCare that prevents this board from going beyond its mandate and slashing Medicare even deeper than what the President already envisions, because Congress would need a super-majority to block the board’s extreme actions before those actions automatically become law." For those unaware of this powerful, unaccountable ObamaCare rationing board, the House Ways and Means Committee has put together some stunning details which can be viewed at: http://waysandmeans.house.gov/News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=283271.
03.08.2012	U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today introduced the Sound Dollar Act - legislation that would transform the mission and operations of the Federal Reserve to lay the foundation for strong economic gro share: f t Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today introduced the Sound Dollar Act - legislation that would transform the mission and operations of the Federal Reserve to lay the foundation for strong economic growth for America in the future. “America’s clear goal should be to preserve the strongest economy in the world throughout the 21st Century. To achieve that we need to get the role of the Federal Reserve right”, said Brady. “A sound dollar creates the strongest foundation for economic growth and output, while generating certainty and encouraging new business investment for job creation. To achieve America’s economic prosperity for the long-term the focus of the Fed should be to protect the purchasing power of the dollar by maintaining price stability.” The Sound Dollar Act ends the Fed’s dual mandate and replaces it with a single mission to maintain price stability; expands the Federal Open Market Committee from 12 to 19 members by including the presidents of all regional Federal Reserve Banks; limits future Fed purchases to U.S. treasuries except in unusual circumstances; speeds the public release of FOMC meeting transcripts to three years from the current five; liquidate the approximately $50 billion in marketable assets in the Exchange Stabilization Fund to reduce the federal debt; and requires the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to be funded through regular congressional appropriations. “Critics of a single mandate often charge that focusing on a sound dollar implies the Federal Reserve will ignore the employment needs of Americans. They are wrong”, said Brady. “Inflation destroys savings and jobs. Deflation destroys investment and jobs. Protecting the purchasing power of the dollar over time provides the strongest foundation for lasting economic growth and job creation for America.” Brady also believes that increasing the Fed’s accountability and transparency, diversifying the FOMC with broader geographic experience and ensuring credit neutrality for future Fed purchases can help restore congressional confidence in the Federal Reserve. “Except in the very short term, monetary policy can’t boost the economy and job creation. It makes no sense for Congress to charge the Federal Reserve to control what it cannot. Let’s give the Fed a clear mandate, focus it on the mission of stable prices and hold it accountable for the results.” The Congressman’s introduction of his bill comes three days after he outlined its contents in a speech before the American Enterprise Institute. (Rep. Brady's speech, Coverage of AEI Conference at C-SPAN) Protecting Purchasing Power of Dollar Lays Foundation for Strong U.S. Economy Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, today introduced the Sound Dollar Act - legislation that would transform the mission and operations of the Federal Reserve to lay the foundation for strong economic growth for America in the future. “America’s clear goal should be to preserve the strongest economy in the world throughout the 21st Century. To achieve that we need to get the role of the Federal Reserve right”, said Brady. “A sound dollar creates the strongest foundation for economic growth and output, while generating certainty and encouraging new business investment for job creation. To achieve America’s economic prosperity for the long-term the focus of the Fed should be to protect the purchasing power of the dollar by maintaining price stability.” The Sound Dollar Act ends the Fed’s dual mandate and replaces it with a single mission to maintain price stability; expands the Federal Open Market Committee from 12 to 19 members by including the presidents of all regional Federal Reserve Banks; limits future Fed purchases to U.S. treasuries except in unusual circumstances; speeds the public release of FOMC meeting transcripts to three years from the current five; liquidate the approximately $50 billion in marketable assets in the Exchange Stabilization Fund to reduce the federal debt; and requires the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to be funded through regular congressional appropriations. “Critics of a single mandate often charge that focusing on a sound dollar implies the Federal Reserve will ignore the employment needs of Americans. They are wrong”, said Brady. “Inflation destroys savings and jobs. Deflation destroys investment and jobs. Protecting the purchasing power of the dollar over time provides the strongest foundation for lasting economic growth and job creation for America.” Brady also believes that increasing the Fed’s accountability and transparency, diversifying the FOMC with broader geographic experience and ensuring credit neutrality for future Fed purchases can help restore congressional confidence in the Federal Reserve. “Except in the very short term, monetary policy can’t boost the economy and job creation. It makes no sense for Congress to charge the Federal Reserve to control what it cannot. Let’s give the Fed a clear mandate, focus it on the mission of stable prices and hold it accountable for the results.” The Congressman’s introduction of his bill comes three days after he outlined its contents in a speech before the American Enterprise Institute. (Rep. Brady's speech, Coverage of AEI Conference at C-SPAN)
03.07.2012	Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) today voiced concern at a report in today's Wall Street Journal that the Federal Reserve is considering a "sterilized" quantitative easing of the money supply as a means of shoring up faltering sectors of the economy. share: f t Washington, DC- Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) today voiced concern at a report in today’s Wall Street Journal that the Federal Reserve is considering a “sterilized” quantitative easing of the money supply as a means of shoring up faltering sectors of the economy. A “sterilized” quantitative easing is what occurs when the Federal Reserve simultaneously creates money by purchasing long-term Treasuries or residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac and removes this additional money through short-term deposits from banks or reversing repos with banks and other financial institutions. “Whenever you pour gasoline onto a fire, however well-controlled the fuel-feeding mechanism may be, it’s dangerous.” Brady said. “The Fed’s consideration of ‘sterilization’ is a tacit admission of the inflationary risk from additional purchases of long-term Treasuries or RMBS.” “Sterilization is difficult to achieve,” Brady said. “If the Fed successfully sterilizes its purchases, QE-3 would make little difference. If the Fed cannot, which is far more likely, QE-3 may push inflation higher in the months ahead” “This monetary experimentation must end. The Fed should stop trying to fine-tune the recovery. Instead, the Fed should focus on maintaining long-term price stability.” This week, Brady will formally introduce the “Sound Dollar Act,” that would give the Fed a single mandate for price stability. “In these difficult times, inflation may prove the greatest threat of all to the soundness of our economy,” Brady continued. “It imposes the harshest of penalties to people on fixed incomes, retirees, and senior citizens.”
03.06.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly 370 to 39 to punish China and other non-market economies when their governments unfairly subsidize products competing against American companies. Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady.. share: f t House Passes Brady Bill to Penalize China When It Doesn’t Play by the Rules Insisting China play by the rules preserves free markets, says U.S. House Trade Leader Washington, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly 370 to 39 to punish China and other non-market economies when their governments unfairly subsidize products competing against American companies. Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady's bipartisan bill restores free market principles that allow the U.S. to address China’s unfair subsidies. “This bill is about insisting China play by the rules," said Brady. "When China repeatedly undermines the free market by subsidizing its exports to the United States, we can’t give them a pass -- especially when the businesses China subsidizes are often government-owned businesses that compete unfairly against our American companies and our workers." "If you don’t believe the American government should pick winners and losers in the marketplace, then you certainly don’t support allowing the Chinese government to do the same," added Brady. "We owe it to America’s job creators and workers to make sure we have the tools at our disposal to offset such unfair trade practices and allow the free market to work properly." Brady's legislation, sponsored by Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), ranking member Sander Levin (D-MI) and others, ensures the freedom of U.S. companies and workers to compete in a market that is not distorted by the Chinese government. A summary of the bill can be found here.
03.06.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly 370 to 39 to punish China and other non-market economies when their governments unfairly subsidize products competing against American companies. Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady&# share: f t Insisting China play by the rules preserves free markets, says U.S. House Trade Leader Washington, DC -- The U.S. House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly 370 to 39 to punish China and other non-market economies when their governments unfairly subsidize products competing against American companies. Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Chairman Kevin Brady's bipartisan bill restores free market principles that allow the U.S. to address China’s unfair subsidies. “This bill is about insisting China play by the rules," said Brady. "When China repeatedly undermines the free market by subsidizing its exports to the United States, we can’t give them a pass -- especially when the businesses China subsidizes are often government-owned businesses that compete unfairly against our American companies and our workers." "If you don’t believe the American government should pick winners and losers in the marketplace, then you certainly don’t support allowing the Chinese government to do the same," added Brady. "We owe it to America’s job creators and workers to make sure we have the tools at our disposal to offset such unfair trade practices and allow the free market to work properly." Brady's legislation, sponsored by Ways & Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-MI), ranking member Sander Levin (D-MI) and others, ensures the freedom of U.S. companies and workers to compete in a market that is not distorted by the Chinese government. A summary of the bill can be found here.
03.05.2012	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's Eighth District Mobile Office is again heading out to local communities. From Wednesday, March 21st through Friday, March 23rd, the Brady Mobile Office will make stops in all 11 counties in District 8. share: f t Congressman Brady’s Eighth DistrictMobile Office ScheduleMarch 21st – 23rd, 2012 Conroe – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady’s Eighth District Mobile Office is again heading out to local communities. From Wednesday, March 21st through Friday, March 23rd, the Brady Mobile Office will make stops in all 11 counties in District 8. The Mobile Office will be staffed with Congressional caseworkers ready to help people with issues from Social Security and Medicare to Veterans Benefits, IRS, immigration and passport issues. "With rising prices at the pump, our mobile office allows us to help residents of District 8 without them having to spend their precious gas dollars to come to us," said Brady. "If people can't come see us at one of our regional offices in Orange, Huntsville and Conroe, this temporary RV office is a convenient alternative." For additional information about the mobile office tour, please contact the Conroe District Office toll free at 1-877-441-5700. The entire list is posted below and is on-line at http://www.kevinbrady.house.gov. Wednesday, March 21st(Liberty, Hardin, Orange and Newton Counties)7:30 – 8:30 amMoss Hill (Liberty County)Location: FitzpakAddress: 35 State Highway 105, Hardin (intersection of SH 146 & SH 105) 9:30 – 10:30 amSilsbee (Hardin County)Location: First Baptist Church, 350 Hwy 96 S, Silsbee 11:00 – 12:00 am Lumberton (Hardin County)Location: Lumberton City Hall, 836 North Main Street, Lumberton 12:30 – 1:30 pm Vidor (Orange County)Location: Vidor Chamber of Commerce Parking lot, 945 North Main Street, Vidor 3:00 – 4:00 pmNewton (Newton County)Location: Brookshire Brother’s Parking Lot, 609 W. Court Street, Newton Thursday, March 22nd(Jasper, Tyler, and Polk counties) 8:00 – 9:00 am Jasper (Jasper County)Location: Jasper City Hall, 465 South Main Street, Jasper 10:00 – 11:00 amColmesneil (Tyler County)Location: Colmesneil City Hall, 204 W. Elder, Colmesneil 11:15 – 12:15 pm Woodville (Tyler County)Location: Tyler County Courthouse, 100 West Bluff, Woodville 1:00 – 2:00 pm Livingston (Polk County)Location: Polk County Courthouse, 101 West Church Street, Livingston 2:30 – 3:30 pmOnalaska (Polk County)Location: Polk County Precinct 2 Sub-Courthouse, 14115 US Highway 190 West, Onalaska Friday, March 23rd(Montgomery, San Jacinto, Trinity and Walker Counties) 8:30 – 9:30 amNew Caney (Montgomery County)Location: New Caney Library, 21569 US Hwy 59, New Caney 10:00 – 11:00 amShepherd (San Jacinto County)Location: McClain’s Food Market, 5450 Highway 59 N, Shepherd 11:30 – 12:30 amColdspring (San Jacinto County)Location: San Jacinto Court House, Hwy 150 South, Coldspring 1:30 – 2:30 pmTrinity (Trinity County)Location: “Old Red” Trinity High School, 101 W. Jefferson, Trinity 3:30 – 4:30 pmNew Waverly (Walker County)Location: New Waverly Public Library, 9372 State Highway 75 S., New Waverly Congressman Brady’s Eighth DistrictMobile Office ScheduleMarch 21st – 23rd, 2012 Conroe – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady’s Eighth District Mobile Office is again heading out to local communities. From Wednesday, March 21st through Friday, March 23rd, the Brady Mobile Office will make stops in all 11 counties in District 8. The Mobile Office will be staffed with Congressional caseworkers ready to help people with issues from Social Security and Medicare to Veterans Benefits, IRS, immigration and passport issues. "With rising prices at the pump, our mobile office allows us to help residents of District 8 without them having to spend their precious gas dollars to come to us," said Brady. "If people can't come see us at one of our regional offices in Orange, Huntsville and Conroe, this temporary RV office is a convenient alternative." For additional information about the mobile office tour, please contact the Conroe District Office toll free at 1-877-441-5700. The entire list is posted below and is on-line at http://www.kevinbrady.house.gov. Wednesday, March 21st(Liberty, Hardin, Orange and Newton Counties)7:30 – 8:30 amMoss Hill (Liberty County)Location: FitzpakAddress: 35 State Highway 105, Hardin (intersection of SH 146 & SH 105) 9:30 – 10:30 amSilsbee (Hardin County)Location: First Baptist Church, 350 Hwy 96 S, Silsbee 11:00 – 12:00 am Lumberton (Hardin County)Location: Lumberton City Hall, 836 North Main Street, Lumberton 12:30 – 1:30 pm Vidor (Orange County)Location: Vidor Chamber of Commerce Parking lot, 945 North Main Street, Vidor 3:00 – 4:00 pmNewton (Newton County)Location: Brookshire Brother’s Parking Lot, 609 W. Court Street, Newton Thursday, March 22nd(Jasper, Tyler, and Polk counties) 8:00 – 9:00 am Jasper (Jasper County)Location: Jasper City Hall, 465 South Main Street, Jasper 10:00 – 11:00 amColmesneil (Tyler County)Location: Colmesneil City Hall, 204 W. Elder, Colmesneil 11:15 – 12:15 pm Woodville (Tyler County)Location: Tyler County Courthouse, 100 West Bluff, Woodville 1:00 – 2:00 pm Livingston (Polk County)Location: Polk County Courthouse, 101 West Church Street, Livingston 2:30 – 3:30 pmOnalaska (Polk County)Location: Polk County Precinct 2 Sub-Courthouse, 14115 US Highway 190 West, Onalaska Friday, March 23rd(Montgomery, San Jacinto, Trinity and Walker Counties) 8:30 – 9:30 amNew Caney (Montgomery County)Location: New Caney Library, 21569 US Hwy 59, New Caney 10:00 – 11:00 amShepherd (San Jacinto County)Location: McClain’s Food Market, 5450 Highway 59 N, Shepherd 11:30 – 12:30 amColdspring (San Jacinto County)Location: San Jacinto Court House, Hwy 150 South, Coldspring 1:30 – 2:30 pmTrinity (Trinity County)Location: “Old Red” Trinity High School, 101 W. Jefferson, Trinity 3:30 – 4:30 pmNew Waverly (Walker County)Location: New Waverly Public Library, 9372 State Highway 75 S., New Waverly
03.01.2012	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) had the following response after President Obama's latest call for tax hikes on American Energy producers during a speech at Nashua Community College. share: f t Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) had the following response after President Obama’s latest call for tax hikes on American Energy producers during a speech at Nashua Community College. “The President’s answer to high gas prices is to punish American energy manufacturing companies, drill fewer wells here at home and send good paying American energy jobs overseas? Shrewd.” ”I long for the day we have a president who understands the economy well enough to know these key tax provisions help energy manufacturers attract the necessary capital to research, explore and develop affordable energy here in America. ” Brady is a senior member of the tax-writing House Ways & Means Committee.
02.28.2012	Washington, D.C. - Republican Study Committee Chairman Tom Price (R-GA), Budget Committee Ranking Member Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Joint Economic Committee Ranking Member share: f t Washington, D.C. - Republican Study Committee Chairman Tom Price (R-GA), Budget Committee Ranking Member Paul Ryan (R-WI), and Joint Economic Committee Ranking Member Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statements urging Speaker Pelosi to delay a vote on the Democrat health care plan and declare August “America’s Right to Know Month,” so that the American people have a full understanding of the impact of the proposal.“Every day, Americans grow more concerned about the health care legislation that Speaker Pelosi and President Obama are attempting to ram through Congress,” said Chairman Price. “By now, Democrats should know what happens when they hastily pass legislation. Their proposals will change our nation’s health care forever, and Americans have a right to know every last detail. We declare August to be ‘America’s Right to Know Month’ in order to give the American people and their representatives in Washington the opportunity to examine the Democrats’ health care plan with the thoughtfulness and deliberation it deserves. We call on Speaker Pelosi to do the same.”“When it comes to health care, why are President Obama, Speaker Pelosi and Congressional Democrats afraid to let the public see their bill?” said Ranking Member Brady. “August should be made America’s Right to Know Month so those who are pushing a new government-run health care plan – as well as those of us who have better ideas – can face the music and our constituents head on.”“We all want to fix what's broken in health care, but we need to get it right,” said Ranking Member Ryan. “Let’s get input from our employers – the constituents we represent – before we’re forced to vote on a thousand-page, trillion-dollar bill that will exacerbate our fiscal crisis, impose crushing new taxes on all Americans, and violate the President’s claim: ‘If you like what you’ve got, you can keep it.’ After hearing from those we serve next month, we can come back with a renewed commitment to advance patient-centered, fiscally-responsible health care reform.” View letter here
02.28.2012	Texas barely allowed the ink to dry on brand new federal unemployment reform programs before filing to be the first state in the nation to try innovative new methods to increase employment. share: f t For Immediate Release Texas Becomes First State to Apply for a Waiver to Help the Unemployed Washington, DC -- Texas barely allowed the ink to dry on brand new federal unemployment reform programs before filing to be the first state in the nation to try innovative new methods to increase employment. "I'm very proud that my state, which currently leads the nation in job creation, would ask to be the first to blaze a new trail to get people back to work," said Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady a negotiator on the payroll tax bill which included unemployment reform who works closely with the Texas Workforce Commission on employment issues. "The federal unemployment system is a 1930’s style program that focuses on sending out payment checks. Texas can show Washington innovative new ways to match local workers with local jobs quicker. So Texas can continue to lead the way for the other 49 states, I implore the Department of Labor to move on Texas' waiver application as soon as possible and hope other states will follow Texas' lead to get Americans back to work." Brady, the only Texan on the payroll tax conference committee, fought for states to have this waiver right during the recent negotiations to extend the payroll tax holiday and reform unemployment insurance for the 21st century. He is also a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. ###
02.23.2012	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) responded to a ruling by federal Judge Susan Bolton blocking parts of Arizona's new immigration law, share: f t “We should be helping states, not suing them”Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) responded to a ruling by federal Judge Susan Bolton blocking parts of Arizona’s new immigration law, which would require that police determine an individual’s immigration status if they are being arrested or questioned. The law was set to take effect tomorrow. “This ruling is disappointing, and I hope Arizona continues to fight for their right to a safe and secure state. Can you imagine trying to protect your citizens against a wave of violent crime by illegal immigrants on one hand – and fighting your own federal government with the other?Sadly, Arizona residents are paying a steep price for the sins of Washington’s new ‘amnesty comes first’ ideology. After November the House might have more of an appetite for enforcing existing laws and tackling meaningful immigration reform. We should be helping states, not suing them. ”Judge Bolton granted part of the Justice Department’s request to block the law, ruling it would result in the wrongful detention of Americans and foreigners, and undermine the federal government’s authority to enforce immigration policy.
02.22.2012	U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the tax writing House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says President Obama's latest outline to revamp the corporate tax code begins to lower rate share: f t White House Corporate Tax Plan "Disappointing", Says GOP Economic Leader Rates lowered but U.S. companies become less competitive in world marketplace Texas -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the tax writing House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says President Obama's latest outline to revamp the corporate tax code begins to lower rates but has glaring flaws that leave American companies less competitive in the world marketplace. "It's disappointing. I was looking for a 21st century tax code but the President's proposal falls short in critical areas that leave America falling further behind our global competitors," says Brady. "By failing to move to a territorial system our companies will be dragging an outdated tax burden around with them as they try to compete. By punishing energy manufacturing in the U.S. with higher taxes we will see American energy jobs driven overseas. And while we've come to expect the President picking winners and losers in government, ratcheting it up even further in the tax code will harm the American economy." "My suggestion, Mr. President, is go back to the drawing board," added Brady. "If you're serious about fundamental tax reform there are plenty of us Republicans ready and willing to sit down with you to create the most simple, pro-growth, competitive tax code possible." ###
02.16.2012	Difficult issues require difficult negotiations. At the end of the day, we have prevented a disruption to our economy, avoided a tax increase on working families, enacted significant unemployment reductions and reforms, and ensured our local doctors will Payroll Tax Agreement Achieves Necessary Reforms while preventing Economic Disruption & Tax Increases on Working AmericansWashington, DC– Conferee Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement on the payroll tax agreement reached late tonight on Capitol Hill.“Difficult issues require difficult negotiations. At the end of the day, we have prevented a disruption to our economy, avoided a tax increase on working families, enacted significant unemployment reductions and reforms, and ensured our local doctors will not be punished merely for treating seniors in Medicare.”“And the House not only has established an important precedent that any future extensions of unemployment insurance must be paid for with genuine spending cuts, the system has been reformed to demand recipients search for a job from day one, allow states to drug test in certain instances and give ten states the opportunity to use innovative new approaches to match workers sooner with local jobs all while reducing the number of benefit weeks from 99 to 63 for most states.” share: f t 2/16/12 8:04
02.13.2012	If Democrats were serious about finding the necessary savings to offset the loss of revenue to Social Security this year I might be more hopeful. But as it is, I think the House GOP Leadership is prudent to file this as a back stop in case negotiations c Brady Statement on Payroll Tax Conference Committee Negotiations Washington, DC -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the only Texan on the House-Senate Conference Committee negotiating an extension of the payroll tax, unemployment benefits and solution to reimburse local doctors more fairly for seeing Medicare patients, said this today following House GOP leadership announcement that they are filing an extension of the payroll tax holiday through the end of the year using general revenue transfers to offset the loss of revenue to Social Security: "If Democrats were serious about finding the necessary savings to offset the loss of revenue to Social Security this year I might be more hopeful. But as it is, I think the House GOP Leadership is prudent to file this as a back stop in case negotiations continue to hit a brick wall. With these deficits I'm always stunned by how many lawmakers are in denial, but we'll keep fighting for 21st century unemployment reforms and a longer-term solution to paying our local doctors for seeing our seniors on Medicare." share: f t 2/13/12 13:54
02.13.2012	This budget is simply not grounded in reality, said Brady. "Despite imposing job-killing tax hikes on Americans and even then still projecting a $6.6 trillion deficit over the next 10 years, the President apparently thinks money grows on trees because n share: f t President's Unrealistic Political Budget Puts American Taxpayers LastHouse Economic Leader says the lack of austerity adds trillions more to the debt while imposing job-killing tax hikesWashington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee calls the President’s budget unrealistic and political.“This budget is simply not grounded in reality," said Brady. “Despite imposing job-killing tax hikes on Americans and even then still projecting a $6.6 trillion deficit over the next 10 years, the President apparently thinks money grows on trees because not once in this document is the word ‘austerity’ to be found. I don’t know whether I am more embarrassed for the President or shocked on behalf of hard-working taxpayers." "Had the President offered a serious budget to move us toward sounder fiscal footing, I believe he would have found many Republicans prepared to work with him," concluded Brady. “Instead, the President has needlessly killed many trees and wasted many bureaucrat hours on a political document aimed at his re-election instead of the betterment of the country. Had the President produced a serious budget with even modest fiscal restraint, this budget could have been a seminal document, helping him to be the transformative president that he aspired to be in 2008. Instead, if he is to be a one-term president, it will be a monument to his folly and the failure of big government.”Brady is the author of the Maximizing America's Prosperity (MAP) Act which would require a serious, prioritized budget from the White House, add smart spending caps and guardrails around Washington's out of control spending and sunset federal programs, agencies and projects that waste American's hard-earned tax dollars.
02.13.2012	Congressman Kevin Brady's releases to the News Media are archived here for everyone to read.
02.10.2012	This is a full scale retreat by a disconnected President who now knows that Washington shouldn't force Americans to abandon their religious convictions. share: f t President's Latest ObamaCare Retreat Shows How "Disconnected" He is from AmericansWashington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement as President Obama prepares to walk back his administration's controversial new ObamaCare rule that has religious organizations fuming."This is a full scale retreat by a disconnected President who now knows that Washington shouldn't force Americans to abandon their religious convictions."From his positions as a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and as the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committtee, Congressman Brady has been one of the top opposition voices to ObamaCare.
02.09.2012	It's puzzling. Democrats offered no ideas on how to pay for all the new spending, rejected all of the job-ready reforms and barely changed the unemployment weeks to 93, said Brady. "That's actually to the left of President Obama who has called f share: f t Democrat’s Offer on Payroll Tax Negotiations “Puzzling” Says GOP Conferee Democrats reject Republican reforms; offer no proposal to fill Social Security hole created by payroll tax holiday Washington, D.C. -- After several weeks of public meetings, Congressional Democrats made public today their long-awaited proposal to extend the payroll tax holiday and unemployment benefits through the end of the year. Members of the Republican negotiating team, including Texas Congressman Kevin Brady, were left scratching their heads.“It’s puzzling. Democrats offered no ideas on how to pay for all the new spending, rejected all of the job-ready reforms and barely changed the unemployment weeks to 93," said Brady. "That’s actually to the left of President Obama who has called for scaling them back to 79.”In a brief one-page offer, Democrats also rejected out of hand provisions by Republicans to reform the unemployment program by requiring workers to search for a job from day one and allowing states to drug test and help low-educated workers pursue a GED.“We want a 21st century unemployment system that does more than simply send a check," said Brady. "We want our workers to be job ready from day one and to allow states to create innovative programs to more quickly match workers with new jobs. These common-sense reforms are long overdue.”With the clock ticking to an end-of-month deadline, Brady wonders if Democrats on Capitol Hill are even serious about meeting the deadline.“Time is running out so we expected something more substantive than this," he added. "The House bill remains the only bi-partisan bill to extend the payroll tax holiday and unemployment benefits through the end of the year which doesn’t add to the deficit. Unless Democrats get serious that’s the only solution that ready to go today.”
02.09.2012	The principle here is that no one is above the law. Members of Congress shouldn't profit from information they have that isn't available to the public, says Brady, who does not trade stock. "I get concerned when Congress rushes through a law bec share: f t House Republicans Vote to Put Teeth in the STOCK ActBrady says House's version is stronger than Senate versionWashington, DC -- Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) voted yes on a stronger version of the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act (“STOCK” Act). Although the U.S. House already bars insider trading, the law passed today expands the Senate’s STOCK Act to include a broader swath of federal government workers.“The principle here is that no one is above the law. Members of Congress shouldn’t profit from information they have that isn’t available to the public,” says Brady, who does not trade stock. “I get concerned when Congress rushes through a law because it often misses the mark, or overreaches. But it’s important to get this right and I believe the House version is closer to that goal.”The House version fixes reporting conflicts in the Senate version, adds teeth to prior laws regarding congressional influence and include transactions involving the purchase or sale of any commodity in interstate commerce. It also expands the bill to cover more federal workers and prevents lawmakers and federal workers from getting preferential treatment in any initial public offering – the so-called Pelosi provision which arose after the former Democratic House Speaker was criticized for insider behavior.
02.02.2012	By a vote of 267 to 159 – with dozens of House Democrats joining Republicans -- the House voted to repeal a component of ObamaCare that the administration itself has determined is unworkable. share: f t More of ObamaCare Repealed House repeals CLASS Act that White House admits was “unworkable”Washington, DC – By a vote of 267 to 159 – with dozens of House Democrats joining Republicans -- the House voted to repeal a component of ObamaCare that the administration itself has determined is unworkable.The CLASS Act, which created a massive new entitlement program for long-term care that even supporters admit is unsustainable, was abandoned by the Department of Health and Human Services as financially unworkable."It’s wrong under ObamaCare to take money from hardworking Americans and promise them they’ll be taken care of in their senior years when the President knows he can’t keep that promise,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "Republicans warned that this scheme was unworkable and after a year and a half of trying even the White House admits this program won’t work. It’s time to repeal yet another failed provision of ObamaCare.”The Congressional Budget Office said the program would but require larger taxpayer subsidies in the future than was projected in the President’s health care law.
02.02.2012	The Republican-led House of Representatives passed three measures that freeze federal pay, cut spending by committees in Congress and stop abuse by welfare recipients. share: f t House Votes to Freeze Federal Pay, Cut Congressional Spending and Prevent Welfare Recipients from Getting Money in Strip Clubs, Liquor Stores and Casinos Washington, DC -- Today the Republican-led House of Representatives passed three measures that freeze federal pay, cut spending by committees in Congress and stop abuse by welfare recipients.H.R. 3835 extends the current freeze on the pay of federal workers and members of Congress through 2013. Although a majority of Democrats – 117 -- opposed the pay freeze, the measure passed with 309 votes.“In this struggling Obama economy and with dangerous deficits as far as the eye can see this is no time to raised the pay of government workers or members of Congress,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas who strongly supported the bill.Brady also supported an additional 6.4% cut in Congressional committee budgets on top of the earlier 5% cut House Republicans put in place last year after taking the majority. He is regularly cited as one of the more frugal members of Congress with his office budget, often returning 20% of his budget to help reduce the deficit.The final measure prevents welfare benefits from being accessed in liquor stores, adult entertainment venues and gambling establishments like casinos and race tracks. That bill passed 395-27."If you’re on welfare and want to spend your time in liquor stores, strip clubs and casinos that’s your choice. But you’re not going to get your welfare benefits there where we almost know for certain they won’t go for food, clothing or utilities for your family,” said Brady.
02.01.2012	I applaud Susan G. Komen for the Cure for their dedication to saving women's lives and for their courage in enforcing their rules that organizations that they support not be under investigation by local, state or federal authorities. It's underst Brady Applauds Susan G. Komen for the Cure for Cutting Ties with Planned ParenthoodWashington, DC -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after one of the country’s top breast-cancer charities, Susan G. Komen for the Cure, announced it was breaking ties with Planned Parenthood which is currently embroiled in a congressional investigation over whether tax dollars were illegally spent on abortions.“I applaud Susan G. Komen for the Cure for their dedication to saving women’s lives and for their courage in enforcing their rules that organizations that they support not be under investigation by local, state or federal authorities. It’s understandable why an organization dedicated to saving lives would have trouble funding an organization that has ended millions of lives.” share: f t 2/1/12 10:22
01.24.2012	Mr. President, stop dividing Americans based on their hard work and achievements, said Brady. "My children's future isn't threatened by those who succeed, it's threatened by a bankrupt America whose government won't stop spending money i share: f t Americans deserve a 'Fair Shot' at SuccessHouse Economic Leader Stresses that Food Stamps and Unemployment Checks are the Wrong Path to Success Washington, DC -- As the New York Times reported, President Obama is promising to use the State of the Union Address tonight to talk about “an America where everybody gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share.” U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady says statements like that show a clear misunderstanding of America's free market principles. "Mr. President, stop dividing Americans based on their hard work and achievements," said Brady. "My children's future isn't threatened by those who succeed, it's threatened by a bankrupt America whose government won't stop spending money it doesn't have while it grows larger and more intrusive in their lives." "I want families and young people to have a fair shot at something more than food stamps and unemployment checks," lamented Brady. "How about a career and a chance to have a better life than your parents?" Kevin Brady is the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, a Deputy Whip for GOP and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways share: f t Keystone XL would provide much needed energy security, says Brady Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following response to the Obama Administration's decision to reject Canada's Keystone XL pipeline permit."From an economic standpoint and America's energy security, this decision makes no sense." said Brady. "The Obama economy continues to struggle and millions of Americans continue to look for work. Why is he turning down jobs in energy, reliably produced in our backyard?""For three years, the administration has dithered, as this project has been studied to death and every opposition to it answered to the satisfaction of experts," added Brady. "This is -- at best -- a short-sighted decision, and at worst -- the kind of crass political pandering that turns so many people off on politics and virtually everything that comes out of Washington."Approving Keystone XL would provide a significant boost to US energy security, according to a recent study which estimates the pipeline would provide an additional 830,000 barrels of oil per day -- or about half of what America imports from the Persian Gulf. The study also points out that developing these oil sands to our north and expanding current pipeline capacity could create more than a half a million U.S. jobs by 2035."American workers, who have packed public meetings in southeast Texas looking for a opportunity to work, have also been waiting too long to get this back of the hand from their president." added Brady. "Make no mistake, Mr. President, Americans know how our economy works and they understand the link between oil production, economic independence, national security and jobs better than the bureaucrats lecturing them from Washington."
01.13.2012	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the Trade Sub-Committee of the House Committee on Ways and Means, issued share: f t Trade efforts will be second-tier priority in new consolidation; Brady Will Oppose Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the Trade Sub-Committee of the House Committee on Ways and Means, issued the following statement after learning of President Obama’s request for vast new powers from Congress so that he may restructure the federal government, starting first with a merger of certain trade-related agencies. "I'm all for streamlining agencies, but simply burying the nation's key trade negotiators within a mountain of new bureaucracy will only damage their effectiveness and delay efforts to open new markets for American businesses and agriculture. Whatever the true agenda is, I will vigorously oppose any effort by the White House to diminish the role and resources of the U.S. Trade Representative's office." Brady says USTR has a long-standing reputation as one of the smallest yet productive agencies in the federal government. "USTR is nimble, aggressive and operates on a tiny budget - yet participates in round-the-clock negotiations with trading partners throughout the world while producing job creating trade agreements to spur the American economy. Heaping who knows how many more layers of Washington bureaucracy upon them will neither save money nor help our struggling economy." "If the President wants to seriously streamline the federal government and save money, I would invite him to embrace the Federal Sunset Act modeled on successful consolidation programs in more than twenty of our states. A bipartisan sunset law, which sets an expiration date on every federal agency and program and requires them to prove their value to the taxpayers or face elimination, that's how you eliminate obsolete and duplicative federal programs."
12.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, who was appointed to the Conference Committee charged with reconciling the differences between the House and share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, who was appointed to the Conference Committee charged with reconciling the differences between the House and Senate passed Payroll Extension bills, released the following statement after the House Republican Leadership's decision to agree to a two-month extension while negotiators continue to seek a long term solution:"With Senators and the President unwilling to return from their vacations to negotiate with the House, we had a difficult decision to make with 160 million taxpayers and thousands physicians treating Medicare patients at risk. I'm disappointed because I still believe a full year extension with unemployment reforms and spending cuts is the right policy for families, doctors and small businesses. I am willing to fight on but in the end House Republicans felt like they were reenacting the Alamo, with no reinforcements and our friends shooting at us."
12.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives is poised today to take the next step to resolve their differences with the Senate over the share: f t Families, Small Businesses Need Tax Relief for Full Year, Not Just Two Months Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives is poised today to take the next step to resolve their differences with the Senate over the extension of a payroll tax and other provisions. The Democratic-led Senate abruptly left town last weekend after hurriedly passing only a two-month extension of the measure while House Republicans are continuing to fight for a full year extension through all of 2012. “Mr. President, Senator Reid, don’t go on vacation until you finish the job. Families and small businesses across America need tax relief for a full year, not just two measly months. House Republicans are ready to work through the holidays to get this job done for the America people,” said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee that developed the bill.House Republicans last week passed a full year-long extension of the payroll tax cut with unemployment reforms and two years of fairer payments to local doctors treating Medicare patients. The bill, which gathered ten Democratic votes, also unlocked the Keystone Pipeline, allowed states to drug test federal unemployment benefits and cut wasteful spending to fully pay for the measure. “Just last week President Obama insisted on a full year tax cut. Just last week Democrats in the House and Senate insisted on a full year tax cut,” noted Brady. “House Republicans are going to hold them to their word. We are moving forward with a full year tax cut, advancing the bill to conference committee to work out the differences – not next year, not when Democrats get around to it, but now.”“That’s the next step in the constitutional process and we are willing to work through the holidays to get the job done for the American people.”Following the House approval to move to a conference committee the Senate must appoint its committee members to the bicameral, bipartisan committee.
12.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - The Speaker of the House John Boehner today named U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas to the conference committee designed to share: f t Speaker John Boehner names Congressman Kevin Brady to House Conference Committee Washington, D.C. - The Speaker of the House John Boehner today named U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas to the conference committee designed to resolve the differences between the House and Senate over the extension of a payroll tax and other provisions. The Democratic-led Senate abruptly left town last weekend after passing just a two-month extension of the measure while House Republicans are continuing to fight for a full year extension through all of 2012. Brady issued the following statement after completing the first committee meeting this afternoon:“Republicans are willing to work through the holidays to make sure families and small businesses can count on this tax cut for a full year and local doctors can be fairly paid for treating Medicare patients. The House has voted to advance the bill to a conference committee and now the bill lies in the Senate.“Senate Democrats short-changed the American people by rushing through a mere two-month extension and then racing from the Capitol to their holiday vacations. President Obama needs to direct Senate Democrats to do their jobs first, and vacation later. Democratic Leader Harry Reid needs to take action to appoint the Senators who can sit down across the table from Republicans to finish this job now – not next year, not when they get around to it, but now.“Hard-working taxpayers don’t get to start their vacations until their work is done. Why are President Obama and Senate Democrats any different? House Republicans are committed to making sure that millions of Americans avoid a needless tax hike.”
12.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a leading advocate in the House for bringing profits home to America, and author of the share: f t House Repatriation Leader Criticizes Levin’s “Offshore Funds Located Onshore” Report Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a leading advocate in the House for bringing profits home to America, and author of the Freedom to Invest Act which has 104 House sponsors, dismissed Senator Levin’s latest attempt today to attack American business as “missing the point”.“What stimulative effect is there to trapping American profits in U.S. debt rather than allowing them to be injected directly into our economy to create new jobs and fund new research, buildings and business expansion?” asks Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “Regardless of where the money is physically located, the bottom line is that these earnings are trapped in the foreign subsidiaries of American international companies and effectively blocked from being invested in America’s struggling economy. It makes no sense, especially with 25 million American workers who can’t find a full-time job.”Brady also noted that like Senator Levin’s first report, no Senate Republican signed today’s report. “Partisan attacks on a bipartisan solution like repatriation won’t get America’s economy back on track,” concludes Brady.Levin today announced an addendum to a one-sided investigation which was first launched by the Senate Permanent Select Committee on Investigations earlier this year. This investigation has received considerable opposition given its inability to attract bipartisan support and omission of numerous real life examples that would refute the Senator’s assertion that the stranded profits are already at work here in America.
12.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congress overwhelmingly approved the annual 2012 budget for the U.S. Military today, which among other things includes a pay increase for share: f t Congress Backs Efforts to Fund Troops, Streamline Spending, and Support Military Operations Washington, D.C. - Congress overwhelmingly approved the annual 2012 budget for the U.S. Military today, which among other things includes a pay increase for our troops, a plan to consolidate overseas bases, and continued detainment of terrorists outside the United States.“Our troops and their families need our support, and this legislation provides just that and more. Even in these lean financial times we must provide the resources necessary to fund the wars of today, while smartly assessing and preparing our military for the emerging threats of tomorrow,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas. “This bill will continue to fund operations at Guantanamo Bay, ensuring that terrorists will not be housed in the United States. And this bill promotes family values, ensuring that funding is used to protect America---not to promote a liberal social agenda.”Brady continued, “This legislation also provides a 1.6% pay increase for America’s men and women in uniform, makes the Chief of the National Guard a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and sets up an independent panel to review consolidation of overseas bases.”The National Defense Authorization Act provides a base military budget of $554 billion for Fiscal 2012 and an additional $115.5 billion for overseas contingency operations. The bill recognizes the extent of cross border terrorism, clarifies the U.S. Military's responsibility and authority to detain al Qaeda terrorists, and strengthens policies on detaining, interrogating and prosecuting terrorists and those who support them while explicitly exempting U.S. citizens from provisions related to military custody of terrorists.
12.13.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas and a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee, told the share: f t Will Work to Replace with Tax Relief that Protects Social Security Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a Republican from Texas and a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee, told the U.S. House of Representatives today he will not support extending the payroll tax deduction past 2012 because it cuts the funding stream for Social Security and makes it harder to keep the program afloat.“2012 is it,” Brady plainly alerted his constituents from the House floor. “Payroll taxes fund Social Security and over the long term cutting Social Security contributions makes an already fragile program more fragile.”Brady is “very troubled” about reducing Social Security revenue another year through the payroll tax holiday, although he commended the bill’s writers who “have responsibly included reforms that fill next year’s hole in Social Security and then some”. Instead of future extensions, Brady vowed to replace them 'with tax relief of an equal amount that doesn’t impact Social Security or make it harder to preserve Social Security for future generations'. The measure by House Republicans passed 234 to 193. While not pleased with the reduction in funding for some local hospitals, Brady noted there is a lot to admire in the Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act of 2011:“This bill helps move the unemployed back into the workforce after a year, allows states to drug test for unemployment checks, ends taxpayer fraud in the Child Tax credit, helps small business invest in equipment, pays local doctors fairly for treating our seniors, cuts spending and reforms entitlements so we don't add to the dangerous deficit,” said Brady.“It also tells the President that he can’t delay a decision to approve the thousands of jobs potentially created by the Keystone Pipeline.” Watch Rep. Brady's floor speech here.
12.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Jim McDermott (D-WA) are leading a bi-partisan multi-state push to include the extension of the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Jim McDermott (D-WA) are leading a bi-partisan multi-state push to include the extension of the state and local sales tax deduction for when Congress considers a larger tax extension package early next year. The two senior members of the House Ways & Means Committee are joined by 66 Democrat and Republican lawmakers in submitting a letter today to Chairman Dave Camp and Ranking Member Sander Levin urging the committee to extend the deduction which they describe as being critically important to families in the seven so-called "sales tax states": Texas, Florida, Tennessee, Washington, Wyoming, South Dakota, and Nevada. "This is an issue of fairness. Since 2004 when the deduction was restored Congress has agreed that taxpayers in sales tax states should be treated equally in the tax code as taxpayers in states that rely upon an income tax", said Brady, who helped lead the successful effort to restore the deduction after a 16 year absence. “Sales taxes add up for families. We’re trying to protect them from a significant tax increase and help them stretch their pocket books a little further.” McDermott said, “Washington State’s businesses and taxpayers rely on the deduction for state and local sales tax. Without it, taxpayers in states without an income tax, like Washington and Texas, will shoulder a larger piece of the federal tax burden. We depend on a system that treats the residents of all states fairly and equally, and extending this deduction ensures that.” Taxpayers in the seven states who itemize their deductions have come to depend on the provision. In 2009 nearly 850,000 Washington state taxpayers claimed a total of $1.8 billion in deductions for state and local sales taxes on their federal income tax returns. Over the same time period 2.1 million taxpayers in Texas claimed $3.9 billion according to the IRS. “Extending the sales tax deduction will benefit millions of Texans who work hard to keep our state’s economy vibrant,” said Texas Comptroller Susan Combs. “It is vitally important for taxpayers in states without an income tax to be able to take the sales tax deduction and be on equal footing with residents in other states. The deduction puts extra money in Texans’ pockets which helps any family’s budget.” Signers of the letter include: Florida:U.S. Representative Sandy Adams (R-FL)U.S. Representative Corrine Brown (D-FL)U.S. Representative Gus Bilirakis (R-FL)U.S. Representative Vern Buchanan (R-FL)U.S. Representative Ander Crenshaw (R-FL)U.S. Representative Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL)U.S. Representative Allcee L. Hastings (D-FL)U.S. Representative Connie Mack IV (R-FL)U.S. Representative John L. Mica (R-FL)U.S. Representative Jeff B. Miller (R-FL)U.S. Representative Richard B. Nugent (R-FL)U.S. Representative Bill Posey (R-FL)U.S. Representative David Rivera (R-FL)U.S. Representative Tom Rooney (R-FL)U.S. Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL)U.S. Representative Dennis A. Ross (R-FL)U.S. Representative Steve Southerland II (R-FL)U.S. Representative Cliff B. Sterns (R-FL)U.S. Representative Daniel Webster (R-FL)U.S. Representative Allen B. West (R-FL)U.S. Representative C.W. Young (R-FL)Nevada:U.S. Representative Mark Amodei (R-NV)U.S. Representative Shelley Berkley (D-NV)U.S. Representative Joseph J. Heck (R-NV)South Dakota:U.S. Representative Kristi L. Noem (R-SD)Tennessee:U.S. Representative Diane Black (R-TN)U.S. Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-TN)U.S. Representative Steve Cohen (D-TN)U.S. Representative Scott DesJarlais (R-TN)U.S. Representative John J. Duncan Jr. (R-TN)U.S. Representative Steven Lee Fincher (R-TN)U.S. Representative Charles “Chuck” J. Fleischmann (R-TN)U.S. Representative David P. Roe (R-TN)Texas:U.S. Representative Joe Barton (R-TX)U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX)U.S. Representative Michael C. Burgess (R-TX)U.S. Representative John R. Carter (R-TX)U.S. Representative Francisco R. Canseco (R-TX)U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX)U.S. Representative John A. Culberson (R-TX)U.S. Representative Blake Farenthold (R-TX)U.S. Representative Bill Flores (R-TX)U.S. Representative Louie Gohmert (R-TX)U.S. Representative Charles A. Gonzalez (D-TX)U.S. Representative Kay Granger (R-TX)U.S. Representative Ralph M. Hall (R-TX)U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX)U.S. Representative Sam Johnson (R-TX)U.S. Representative Shelia Jackson Lee (D-TX)U.S. Representative Randy Neugebauer (R-TX)U.S. Representative Kenny Marchant (R-TX)U.S. Representative Michael T. McCaul (R-TX)U.S. Representative Pete Olson (R-TX)U.S. Representative Ron Paul (R-TX)U.S. Representative Ted Poe (R-TX)U.S. Representative Pete Sessions (R-TX)U.S. Representative Lamar S. Smith (R-TX)U.S. Representative William “Mac” Thornberry (R-TX)Washington:U.S. Representative Jamie Herrera Beutler (R-WA)U.S. Representative Norm D. Dicks (D-WA)U.S. Representative Doc Hastings (R-WA)U.S. Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA)U.S. Representative Rick Larsen (D-WA)U.S. Representative Jim McDermott (D-WA)U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA)U.S. Representative David G. Reichert (R-WA)U.S. Representative Adam Smith (D-WA)Wyoming:U.S. Representative Cynthia Lummis (R-WY)
12.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is seeking a congressional hearing into rampant Medicare fraud in the Houston region. Hundreds of millions share: f t Millions of dollars stolen from the elderly program; fraud practices here likely occurring elsewhere, says Brady Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is seeking a congressional hearing into rampant Medicare fraud in the Houston region. Hundreds of millions of dollars have potentially been stolen from the health care program for seniors as reported in a recent investigative series by Houston Chronicle reporter Terri Langford. Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee which has jurisdiction over Medicare, requested the hearing in a letter to the chairman of his committee’s Oversight Sub-Committee, Representative Charles Boustany of Louisiana."Medicare fraud isn’t simply another white collar crime. This is stealing from America’s elderly and ill," said Brady. "My guess is that if this shocking amount of fraud is occurring here in the Houston region it's probably happening all across the country. We need to shine a bright light on it all." The Chronicle investigation revealed millions of dollars of apparent Medicare waste and abuse in ambulance trips for healthy patients, the appearance of collusion between some ambulance services and mental health clinics, shell owners of Medicare transportation companies and inflated home health care billings. For example, Medicare paid $62 million to private ambulance services in Harris County during 2009 while the entire city of New York required only $7 million for the same services that year. The series also revealed Medicare seemingly ignored local requests for closer scrutiny of the Medicare providers, including a bi-partisan letter in 2009 from Harris County District Attorney Pat Lycos, U.S. Congressman Gene Green and Brady. "My concern is not only the millions of taxpayer dollars lost to rampant fraud within these Medicare services but also the lack of responsiveness by Medicare to local officials raising red flags about the financial integrity of the programs," wrote Brady. "The series of news articles makes a compelling argument that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) needs to significantly strengthen the integrity of Medicare programs by responding immediately to referrals from law enforcement, tightening loose payment regulations and providing much stronger oversight of its state contractors." Congressman Brady's letter to Oversight Sub-Committee Chairman Boustany is attached here.
12.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today the U.S. House of Representative passed the REINS Act, a key plank in the Republican jobs effort. The measure, co-sponsored share: f t Brady-sponsored REINS Act passes U.S. House 241 to 184 Washington, D.C. - Today the U.S. House of Representative passed the REINS Act, a key plank in the Republican jobs effort. The measure, co-sponsored by U.S. Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, seeks to curtail White House efforts to impose a growing regulatory burden on America's small businesses."Every day and a half in America the White House unleashes a major new regulation on America’s job creators. From energy to health care, banking to small business Main Street is under attack from its own federal government. It’s time to rein it in,” says Brady. Brady says small, medium and major companies in his district cite the crush of new regulation as a major obstacle to hiring new workers. A recent report estimates local companies pay more than $10,000 in added regulation cost for every worker. To slow down the White House rush on regulation, the REINS Act requires Congress to approve every new major rule that impacts the economy by $100 million or more. If Congress and the President don't act within 70 legislative days, the rule automatically fails. "The White House has used regulation to advance a radical agenda that couldn’t pass Congress and as a result, the Obama economy has stalled out”, adds Brady. "Commonsense tells us to get our economy back up to steam we need balanced regulations that considers how much they will hurt job creators and job seekers in America.” More than 4,000 new regulations are currently in the federal pipeline. According to the Phoenix Center, 420 private sector jobs are lost for every $1 million in new regulatory spending and the Small Business Administration's most recent figures put the annual cost of federal regulations at more than $1.75 trillion. This year, the burden of new regulations has already added an additional $67.4 billion on the backs of America's employers and the proposed CAFE (Corporate Average Fuel Economy) Standards alone could add as much as $141 billion in compliance costs by 2025. "In his State of the Union address, President Obama said [w]hen we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix them," concluded Brady. "This bill is a strong start in the right direction."
12.02.2011	Washington, D.C. - While the top line number of 8.6% may sound good, today's employment report holds very little good news for American workers share: f t President Obama's Average Unemployment Rate remains at 9.4% as 5.7million Americans remain out of work for more than half a year Washington, D.C. - While the top line number of 8.6% may sound good, today’s employment report holds very little good news for American workers with 315,000 leaving the workforce and only 120,000 new payroll jobs created nationwide."Since President Obama has been in office, unemployment has averaged 9.4%," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top Republican and vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. "It's no wonder why Americans overwhelming said they believe our nation is still in recession. While I'm grateful for any new payroll jobs as opposed to job losses, this employment growth remains too weak to give real hope to America's long-term unemployed." “The Obama administration told the American people that the stimulus legislation would bring the unemployment rate down to 6.5% by now," added Brady. "Instead we have 5.8 million fewer jobs than were promised by the end of last year and are still 6.3 million jobs below where we were when the recession started.""Uncertainty caused by Obama policies have kept business investment in buildings, equipment, and software weak," concluded Brady. "In the third quarter of 2011, real business investment was still $166 billion below its pre-recession level holding back job growth."
11.21.2011	Conroe, TX --- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior share: f t Conroe, TX --- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, is disappointed with today's announcement from the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. “It's disappointing because the committee was tasked with only finding three cents of savings for every dollar Washington spends over the next decade,” said Brady. “In the end, the Democrats asking price of at least $1 trillion in higher taxes was not something Republican members of the committee could accept because they believe, as I do, that out-of-control spending is the real problem.” The automatic spending cuts of $1.2 trillion over ten years will begin in 2013, reducing discretionary programs by an average 8%, defense by 10% and 2% from Medicare - mainly hospitals, nursing homes and other health care providers. “While these automatic savings aren't the design I would have chosen - and ignore the urgent need to make Medicare and Social Security solvent - it's necessary that we make serious spending cuts sooner rather than later,” added Brady, who has stated he opposes lowering the amount of automatic spending cuts. “Congress is gridlocked by two very different visions of the direction America should go. It will be the voters next November who will make the choice that it's either taxpayers who should tighten their belts by paying higher taxes or it's Washington that should tighten its belt by spending less. That's the stark choice.”
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today voted in support of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. share: f t Rep. Brady, bill sponsor, calls on Washington to live within its meansWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today voted in support of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Following the Congressman’s vote in support of the bill, which he has sponsored and long supported, Brady made the below remarks:“Why do families and businesses have to live within their means, but not Washington? The Balanced Budget Amendment places common-sense discipline on future presidents and Congress to control wasteful spending and will keep us financially sound. Make no mistake; my goal is not to simply balance the budget, but to pay off America’s national debt – every dime.“Can you imagine how much better financial shape America would be in today had the same balanced budget amendment had been enacted 15 years ago when it came so close to passage? For the life of me I don’t understand why so many lawmakers in Washington keep coming up with excuses for not balancing our nation’s budget.”The Balanced Budget Amendment required a two-thirds majority vote to pass, and ultimately failed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 261-165. A nearly identical to the version passed the House in 1995 by a vote of 300-132.
11.17.2011	Washington, D.C. - The House today overwhelmingly passed legislation that will repeal the job-killing 3 percent withholding mandate on local companies doing business with share: f t Permanently ending 3 percent withholding law helps local businesses; passes with overwhelming bipartisan support Washington, D.C. - The House today overwhelmingly passed legislation that will repeal the job-killing 3 percent withholding mandate on local companies doing business with state, local and federal governments. The bill tracks an earlier version of the law co-sponsored by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas).The measure also simplifies the process for companies to hire unemployed and disabled veterans. This legislation passed the Senate last week with overwhelming bipartisan support. “Congress is looking for ways to help American job creators survive the Obama economy and hopefully to start adding local jobs. Today’s strong bipartisan vote is evidence that this Congress can work together to reduce the uncertainty facing our local businesses and is capable of enacting legislation that will free up valuable resources for hiring.”The 3 percent withholding rule would require all levels of government to withhold 3 percent of payments owed to their contractors throughout the United States. The withholding, if allowed to occur, would prevent businesses from hiring new employees and in some cases could require that businesses take out loans to cover the losses due to complying with the law.“In addition to providing job creators with the necessary cash flow to pay their wages, this bill will also provide assistance to our unemployed veterans. This legislation will aide our veterans in their transition to the civilian workforce by providing them with the ability to build upon their skills learned while serving our country,” concluded Brady.The provisions in this legislation which apply to veterans include a tax incentive for businesses that hire veterans and specialized job training for unemployed veterans that will assist in job placement efforts.
11.15.2011	Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is thrilled his fight to secure a major expansion of the Conroe VA Clinic has been successful share: f t Persistence by Local Lawmaker Pays Off Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is thrilled his fight to secure a major expansion of the Conroe VA Clinic has been successful with the VA Secretary Eric Shinseki's signing of the request. "The Conroe VA Clinic is a remarkable success, now serving 7,500 area veterans whose families no longer have to make long drives into Houston for routine care," says Brady. "Our community, our veterans and the Houston VA leadership have worked for several years to secure a major expansion of the clinic so this expansion is very good news. I thank and commend Secretary Shinseki for approving and supporting this important expansion for our veterans."The Conroe VA Clinic opened four years ago after a successful community wide campaign spearheaded by Brady, local veterans groups and community leaders. The clinic quickly expanded into adjacent space with additional services as its patient load has more than tripled from its original 2,000 veterans. The next step for the VA is to find a location for an expanding clinic which currently has the largest utilization rate in the entire DeBakey VA system."The Conroe VA Clinic has an amazing staff and it has quickly become indispensable for our veterans and their families. Conroe VA doctors are already seeing the maximum number of patients allowed by VA policy and last year clinic staff handled nearly 40-thousand outpatient visits," says Brady. "A larger, permanent home will allow this clinic meet the needs of our growing veteran population."Brady applauds the work of Dr. Rajani Potu, clinic medical director, and Rachel Adams, clinic administrator, whose creativity and commitment to local veterans led them for the last four years to find as many nooks and crannies as possible to expand the clinic’s capabilities in its current location. "The Conroe VA Clinic's staff should all be commended, because it’s not possible to see more than three times the patients your facility was designed -- or projected to handle -- without amazing management and skillful use of resources," concluded Brady. "The sooner the VA can open the new clinic the better."
11.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - A bipartisan proposal authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Kevin Brady, TX-08, to promote U.S. exports to the Asia-Pacific share: f t Washington, D.C. - A bipartisan proposal authored by Rep. Rick Larsen, WA-02, and Rep. Kevin Brady, TX-08, to promote U.S. exports to the Asia-Pacific region became law today. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Business Travel Cards Act of 2011 will allow American business and government personnel traveling to the Asia-Pacific region access to expedited visa processing and designated airport travel lanes. Foreign travel card holders in 18 other economies already have access to these privileges when traveling to the United States. President Obama signed the legislation at the APEC Economic Leaders’ meeting in Honolulu today.“The president’s signature on this bill means American business men and women will be able to travel more freely to the Asia-Pacific region, expanding opportunities to export American goods to these important markets,” Larsen said. “This travel card will level the playing field for American business people traveling overseas, giving them the same expedited travel benefits that foreign travel card holders enjoy when they come to the United States.”“Today’s passage of the APEC Business Travel Card is a step in the right direction for American jobs and falls in line with our mission to provide better, faster, cheaper access for our American businesses to the Asian Pacific economies,” Brady said. “By allowing U.S. Citizens the same opportunities that citizens of the other 18 economies in this region, we are providing increased opportunities for Americans to sell. I applaud the President for signing this long overdue legislation in to law today and look forward to sharing this welcome news with our partners, and potential partners at the APEC conference this week.”
11.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - This Veterans Day and Every Day, 'Thank You' is never enough Watch video here share: f t Washington, D.C. - This Veterans Day and Every Day, 'Thank You' is never enoughWatch video here
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. - After intense pressure from Congress, the Department of the Interior has changed course from holding no Gulf of Mexico oil and share: f t Obama Administration’s Change of Course is Welcome News Along the Gulf Coast Washington, D.C. - After intense pressure from Congress, the Department of the Interior has changed course from holding no Gulf of Mexico oil and gas lease sales this year to holding a December lease sale of nearly 21 million acres."After 20 months with no oil and gas lease sales, this is good news our energy workers have waited too long to hear,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). However, today’s announcement doesn’t signal an end to Congress’ battles with the Administration over producing American energy.“We still need the Administration to get serious about permitting,” added Brady. “Industry experts say the average time period for permit approval has more than tripled in the last year and a half. That’s just not acceptable when we know that producing American energy creates American jobs we need right now."
11.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - The latest U.S. jobs report shows yet another lackluster month for job creation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics announced today that share: f t New Jobs Report Says "Never" Washington, D.C. - The latest U.S. jobs report shows yet another lackluster month for job creation. The Bureau of Labor Statistics announced today that payroll job growth was just 80,000 for the month of October, and the unemployment rate was 9.0%, within the 9.0% to 9.2% range where it has been since mid-summer."At this anemic pace, the answer to when America's unemployment will return to the level before the recession is never", said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the vice chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "If you're one of the 25 million Americans who can't find work or a full-time job, today's numbers are disheartening, yet again." More than two years after the recession officially ended, there are 6.4 million fewer payroll jobs in America than when the recession began, and nearly that many are out of work for the long term, notes Brady."Enough is enough. The President's economic policies are just not working. Hardworking Americans deserve a fresh start. What they don't need is a second round of stimulus we can't afford that creates tax-payer subsidized government jobs."October's performance continues a trend of anemic job growth that had persisted throughout the summer and into the fall. During the last six months, payroll job growth has averaged just 90,000 per month, well below the level of 130,000 needed to begin to reduce the nation's high unemployment rate."Instead of more stimulus sugar highs, we need long term policies that will put high octane jet fuel into our private sector engine instead of headwinds and turbulence on the flight path to more robust economic growth," added Brady. "The Administration needs to stop patting itself on the back and reverse course on stimulus spending and over-regulation that actually harm American workers and keep our businesses from making key job-creating investments."
11.03.2011	Washington, D.C. - Leaders of Republican conservatives in the U.S. House of Representatives introduced a jobs plan this week that focuses on lowering taxes, share: f t Brady Tax Reforms Highlighted in “Jobs Through Growth” Proposal Washington, D.C. - Leaders of Republican conservatives in the U.S. House of Representatives introduced a jobs plan this week that focuses on lowering taxes, cutting burdensome business regulations and getting American energy companies back to work in the United States.The Jobs Through Growth plan is being proposed by the Republican Study Committee which includes over 170 conservatives and Tea Party freshmen lawmakers. In contrast to President Obama’s jobs plan which relies on a second round of stimulus spending, the conservatives' plan focuses on getting government out of the way of job creators in America. “This is about keeping America open for business by cutting red tape, making the tax code simpler, tearing down barriers to more American-made energy and growing the economy – not the government,” said Rep. Kevin Brady of Texas, a long-time member of the House conservatives. Two of Brady’s tax proposals are highlighted in the new plan: abolishing the Death Tax and tax relief to bring profits back from overseas to be invested in the American economy. Brady, a senior member of the tax-writing Ways & Means Committee, is leading the charge in Congress to permanently abolish the estate tax – often called the Death Tax – once and for all. Brady’s bill has bi-partisan support with 72 sponsors in the House.“The Death Tax remains the number one reason family businesses and farms aren’t passed down to the next generation in America. It’s long past time for this terrible tax to be repealed forever,” he said.Brady is also promoting the leading free-market alternative to the President’s stimulus spending. His Freedom to Invest Act temporarily lowers the tax gate to allow an estimated $1.2 trillion in U.S. profits stranded overseas to flow back into America within the year to create jobs, increase research and development, expand facilities and strengthen the U.S. economy.A recent study estimates his measure – often termed repatriation – would create up to three million new jobs and increase the U.S. economy by 1 to 4 percent."Rather than borrowing money America doesn’t have to create jobs we never see, which is what the President proposes in his second stimulus, why not bring back a trillion dollars of American profits from overseas and invest it now in American jobs and expansion?” asked Brady.
10.27.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Brady, of Texas, today voted in support of repealing the small-business killing 3% withholding rule. The 3% withholding rule which share: f t Rep. Brady Votes to Reduce Uncertainty for Job Creators Washington, D.C. - Congressman Brady, of Texas, today voted in support of repealing the small-business killing 3% withholding rule. The 3% withholding rule which the House repealed today by a vote of 405 to 16, required that all levels of government withhold 3 percent of payments owed to their contractors throughout the United States. The bipartisan bill, H.R. 674, would repeal this burdensome requirement. The withholding, if allowed to occur, would prevent businesses from hiring new employees and could in some cases require that businesses take out a loan to cover the losses due to complying with the law.“Supporting the repeal of the 3 percent withholding law is a demonstration that Washington can work together. Today’s strong bipartisan vote is evidence that this Congress can work together to reduce the uncertainty facing America’s job creators, and we can free up valuable resources businesses can use for hiring,” said Brady.
10.27.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Brady, of Texas, today voted to fix yet another poorly thought out provision of the Obamacare bill. H.R. 2576, amends share: f t Rep. Brady votes to fix yet another poorly thought out provision of Obamacare Washington, D.C. - Congressman Brady, of Texas, today voted to fix yet another poorly thought out provision of the Obamacare bill. H.R. 2576, amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to eliminate a provision that would allow couples making as much as $64,000 to apply for Medicaid, a program intended for the very poorest of Americans.“Obamacare legislation has time and time again proven itself to be ridden with snafus, glitches, and mistakes. The MAGI provision was a nonsensical provision that would let early retirees making as much as $64,000 a year as a couple to enter in to Medicaid. Already, the government doesn’t have the funding to support this program—yet this loophole could add 3 million more people to the program,” said Brady.“A couple making more than the average U.S. household should not be eligible for taxpayer dollars meant to care for the very poorest of Americans---whose numbers as a result of the economy are growing by the day.”
10.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - In response to the discussion draft proposal released today by Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, which outlines the transition of share: f t “If America is to remain competitive we need a modern tax system that meets or beats our competitors.” Washington, D.C. - In response to the discussion draft proposal released today by Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp, which outlines the transition of America’s tax code from a complex worldwide taxation system to a more competitive territorial system and lowers the top tax rates for both individuals and employers to 25 percent, Congressman Kevin Brady made the following statement:“If America hopes to remain the world’s largest economy, we need a modern tax system that meets or beats our competitors. I applaud Chairman Camp for developing this discussion draft on international tax reform and I encourage businesses to inform members of the Ways & Means Committee on how this approach will impact their ability to compete and win in the global marketplace.“As for the repatriation provisions, there is a great deal to analyze in the proposal.“The draft answers the question of whether lowering the current tax gate to let stranded U.S. profits flow back into the American economy is a necessary action. Now the question is simply when. Absent fundamental tax reform this fall, I believe there is a strong case in this weak economy to allow companies to repatriate those investments sooner rather than later. This will be the first step towards fundamental tax reform.“The clock is ticking and U.S. companies face increasing pressure to deploy their overseas profits now outside the United States where they get a much bigger bang for their buck than paying the large penalty to bring them home to be reinvested in America.“Repatriation this fall would be a significant free-market stimulus of up to $1 trillion that will create jobs, generate new federal revenue, and inject new investment into American research and development, expansions, and strengthening the stability of America’s job creators.”
10.25.2011	Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2042, The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2011. This bill will share: f t Levels Playing Field for American Business Leaders Traveling Overseas Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2042, The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Travel Cards Act of 2011. This bill will help level the playing field for American business men and women traveling overseas and will facilitate commerce with this rapidly growing economic region. The APEC Business Travel Card (ABTC) will help promote fast and efficient travel for security-screened business people and government officials within the APEC region.Congressman Rick Larsen, Co-Chair of the APEC Caucus stated “After nearly three years of work, the House passed the APEC Business Travel Card Program today. The U.S. is one step closer to finally joining 18 other APEC economies that already have this full background check, expedited travel card for business people traveling between the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation economies. The U.S. will be one of the last to establish the travel card, but will be the largest economy.“This travel card will equip our business leaders with the tools and resources they need to compete in the global marketplace,” said Rep. Larsen. “The APEC Business Travel Card will level the playing field for American business people traveling overseas and provide them with the same expedited travel benefits foreign travel card holders enjoy when they travel to the U.S,” said Rep. Larsen.Congressman Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee concluded “Today’s bipartisan passage of the APEC Business Travel Card indicates an increased interest in regaining America’s competitiveness in the Asian Pacific Economic region. This bill will increase trade and investment within the region by opening markets in the Asia-Pacific region and connecting them to American exporters. We greatly appreciate the support of Peter King, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, on this legislation.”
10.13.2011	Watch Video "Thank you, Madame Speaker. As a co-sponsor and proud parent of two young boys -- adopted young boys, whose share: f t Watch Video"Thank you, Madame Speaker. As a co-sponsor and proud parent of two young boys -- adopted young boys, whose family exists only because two women in two difficult situations in two different states chose life and gave us a family, I am proud to rise in strong support of the rule to allow the House to consider the Protect Life Act led by my friend and colleague, Congressman Joe Pitts. "Over a year ago, President Obama's healthcare plan was signed into law despite a strenuous outcry by the American people without significant and substantial prohibitions on federal funding for abortion."This funding of abortion through insurance plans, community health centers and other programs created by the new healthcare law could have been avoided if such language was intentionally left out. "There've been restrictions on abortions in subsidies for over thirty years beginning with the Hyde Amendment in 1976, and I'm proud that today we are acting in that spirit. "Regardless of whether you are pro-choice or like me strongly pro-life, Americans have always agreed we will not use federal tax dollars to subsidize or incentivize abortion. And, you don't have to take my word for it. In poll after poll, more than 60% of Americans oppose using federal funding for abortions, and more recently two-thirds of Americans said we shouldn't subsidize health insurance plans that includes abortions. "The President's healthcare plan fails to provide real conscious protection for healthcare providers who decline to participate in abortions by mandating that they not be discriminated against because of their religious faith. "The bottom line is this bill that we take up today strikes an important balance to make sure your federal tax dollars are not used to subsidize abortions in the president's plan and will make sure that people and institutions are able to care for their patients and are not forced to violate their moral principles. "I strongly urge my colleagues to respect America's conscientious objections to abortions by voting for the rule and for the protect life act. I yield back."
10.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and chief House proponent of a repatriation share: f t We must bring stranded U.S. profits home to invest in new jobs and new research. It worked before, and will work again, says House author Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and chief House proponent of a repatriation tax holiday to spur the American economy, dismissed the recent report by U.S. Senator Carl Levin as incomplete and one-sided.“The Senator’s report is flawed and factually deficient”, says Brady, whose Freedom to Invest Act has 60 bi-partisan co-sponsors. “The questionable assertion that allowing U.S. companies to bring back stranded profits from overseas to invest now in American jobs, research, and expansion would somehow damage this struggling economy is simply not grounded in fact or in practice.” Brady continues, “The previous tax holiday that occurred in 2005 created jobs, boosted the economy, and increased federal tax revenues which in turn led to the strongest growth year in the decade that wasn’t fueled by an artificial asset bubble.”Brady adds, “By omitting numerous real life examples of companies creating jobs and unleashing new investment, as well as ignoring recent economic studies that demonstrate the economic boost from repatriation, this report appears to be little more than a factually deficient attack on bi-partisan legislation that could help get our economy back on the right track.” “At the end of the day, this report fails to explain how a dollar of American profit left overseas is better than a dollar of profits back home that could be invested in American jobs, research, expansion and financial stability. While the ultimate solution is comprehensive tax reform that permanently lowers the barriers to bringing U.S. investment back home, the clock is ticking on this dismal economy. We need a free-market solution that creates tax revenue rather than spends it,” concludes Brady.Multiple recent studies have shown the benefits we can reap from allowing American businesses to reinvest here at home: Former Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin published a study for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that found a reduced repatriation rate could help produce nearly three million jobs and increase the GDP.Former Clinton administration official Dr. Robert Shapiro for the New Democrat Network found that reducing taxes on repatriated earnings could lead to billions in revenue for the Treasury.The Establishment Survey published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics affirms that by far the greatest private sector job growth over the past decade occurred during the period when the 2004 Homeland Investment Act (HIA) was in effect.
10.06.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Kevin Brady, of Texas, today called for Congressional and Administration action this fall on long overdue legislation that would temporarily share: f t Rep. Brady calls for action on repatriation legislation this fall Washington, D.C. - Rep. Kevin Brady, of Texas, today called for Congressional and Administration action this fall on long overdue legislation that would temporarily lower the corporate tax rate to allow American companies to bring home trillions in profits stranded overseas. Rep. Brady’s statement is below:“In this stagnant economy, allowing American businesses to bring back their profits from overseas to invest in jobs and expand their businesses in our backyard is just common sense. Today’s bipartisan action by Senators McCain and Hagan is further evidence of the fact that we must explore all options that will allow our businesses to reinvest right now here at home. I hope that Congress can act quickly so that the President can sign repatriation legislation that will take effect this fall.”
10.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - Following today's passage of the pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea out of Committee, Rep. Kevin Brady, share: f t Washington, D.C. - Following today’s passage of the pending free trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea out of Committee, Rep. Kevin Brady, Chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Trade, released the below statement:“These three “Sell American” agreements have been five years in the making. The game clock has been ticking and until these agreements are implemented, we will continue to miss out on the 250,000 jobs and $13 billion in new sales opportunities for our manufacturers, farmers, and service companies. To get back in the game we must pass these agreements now. Let’s not delay any longer.”Today’s Committee action clears the way for formal consideration of the agreements on the House floor.
09.23.2011	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Kevin Brady voted in support of H.R. 2608, Continuing Appropriations for FY 2012 on Thursday evening. This bill will prevent share: f t Washington, D.C. - Rep. Kevin Brady voted in support of H.R. 2608, Continuing Appropriations for FY 2012 on Thursday evening. This bill will prevent a federal government shutdown while funding disaster relief efforts. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 219 to 203.“Tonight’s vote was a choice to fund disaster relief efforts. We did the right thing tonight by voting to fund relief efforts while keeping our focus on American taxpayers’ bottom line by paying for disaster relief by cutting other frivolous spending. This short-term extension will provide disaster relief, keep government open while we complete the appropriations bill, and not add more to this dangerous deficit.”
09.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) would like to remind high school seniors and first year college students in the Eighth Congressional share: f t Rep. Kevin Brady seeks exceptional young men and women who wish to serve their country Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) would like to remind high school seniors and first year college students in the Eighth Congressional District that the deadline to apply for a service academy nomination is fast approaching. Applications are due to the Congressman's office by October 24, 2011."It's a great honor as a member of Congress to nominate my district's best and brightest young men and women to our military service academies," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "Military service academy nominees are the cream of the crop and I'm looking for servant leaders who seek to earn a top of the line education and serve their country as a military officer."To receive a service academy nomination from Congressman Brady, candidates must reside in the Eighth District of Texas, be a United States Citizen, be between the ages of 17 and 23 and unmarried. All applicants must submit a completed and signed Application for Nomination, official high school and/or college transcripts that show GPA and class rank, official SAT or ACT scores and 3 letters of recommendation. Interested students who meet the above criteria should contact Congressman Brady's Academy Coordinator Justin Veillon at (936) 439-9532 or justin.veillon@mail.house.gov with any questions concerning the application process. Applications can be found online on Congressman Brady's website at: www.house.gov/brady/academy_page.html. Congressman Brady serves the 8th Congressional District in Washington, DC. He is the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
09.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today released the following statement regarding the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals decision in Virginia share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today released the following statement regarding the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals decision in Virginia v. Sebelius:“As an opponent of Obamacare, I am greatly disappointed, but not surprised, that the 4th Circuit refused to rule on the merits of the law by denying that Virginia has standing to challenge Obamacare. All three of the judges on the panel were Democratic appointees, including two by President Obama. I expect that the legality of Obamacare will be settled by the Supreme Court and hope that those justices will throw out this terrible law.”
09.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - In a district prone to frequent hurricanes and now wildfires, fighting for federal disaster relief in Washington is familiar territory for share: f t Says Congress should budget for disasters; eliminate wasteful spending Washington, D.C. - In a district prone to frequent hurricanes and now wildfires, fighting for federal disaster relief in Washington is familiar territory for Texas Congressman Kevin Brady. But the senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee believes Washington should start budgeting for natural disasters by setting aside funding or cutting less critical programs to pay for the necessary help."The reason Congress doesn’t include disaster relief in its budget is so it has an excuse to avoid paying for it. Plus an ‘emergency’ bill in Washington usually turns into a Christmas tree for a host of unrelated pork barrel spending”, says Brady. “With these dangerously high deficits what’s wrong with setting an adequate amount aside at the beginning of the year for these disasters and cutting lower priority projects to pay for it?”Brady notes that budget-writers have the historical data to predict yearly disaster costs. He is pushing for new disaster relief this year to be offset with cuts elsewhere in a federal budget that has exploded in size the past four years.“Rather than borrowing more money from China and other nations to give relief to our local communities, let’s be responsible and pay for these predictable disaster costs up front.”The House passed a general funding bill for FEMA earlier this summer, but the Senate has yet to take up the measure. The White House has requested billions of dollars in additional spending for the new health care law, banking regulations and green jobs subsidies but has not yet requested any additional disaster funding for this summer's tornadoes, wildfires, flooding, earthquake or Hurricane Irene.
09.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and vice chairman of the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement today in remembrance of the infamous events which took place on September 11, 2001.“On this tenth anniversary of the terrible attacks of 9/11, I pray three things for America: 1) That we never again let our guard down against an enemy that continues today to plot the death and destruction of our nation and our families; 2) That we never forget the innocent lives lost that day, the heroism of our first responders and the everyday Americans who brought Flight 93’s terrorist mission to an end, as well as the men and women of our military who have sacrificed their lives and their dreams to keep us safe in the years since; and 3) That every parent commit to make sure our children born since that fateful September day understand the horror, the heroism and the resilience of a nation that refused to be brought to its knees – a nation that responded with flags flying, with churches overflowing and a determination to never again take our freedoms for granted."As a parent of two young boys, I must make sure that 9-11 isn’t some distant historical event but a continued call to action to preserve a nation whose values of liberty and freedom are granted from God and must be preserved for generations of Americans to come. “On the evening of September 11th, 2001 after a stunned Congress gathered on the steps of the Capitol to sing “God Bless America”, I and a couple other members of Congress walked around to the west steps of the Capitol. As the smoke of the burning Pentagon rose and the National Mall and surrounding city streets stood eerily empty – devoid of cars, planes and people, we sat in silence watching the sun set in a stunningly clear blue sky and I asked God to wrap his arms around this nation and the loved ones we lost. It is a moment I will never forget and a prayer I will never stop giving.”
09.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - "The President's message was powerful and clear: ‘Government made America great and government can make it great again.' This misguided view share: f t Washington, D.C. - “The President’s message was powerful and clear: ‘Government made America great and government can make it great again.’ This misguided view explains why two years after the recession ended Americans are still left suffering with a second-rate economy that’s held up to ridicule by the world as our nation sinks deeper into debt and 20 million Americans can’t find work. “I was looking for real leadership – an admission the President’s economic policies have failed and a call for a fresh start, a new direction for this dismal economy. Other than the call for passing the new sales agreements with Korea, Colombia and Panama – which the President himself continues to hold up – what America witnessed was a shopping cart of gimmicks to special interest voting blocks paid for by crushing tax increases on the very consumers and job creators we need to get this economy back on track.’“It’s also mystifying why the President continues to block our successful companies from bringing back home to America a trillion dollars of their stranded profits overseas to be invested in new jobs, research & development, buildings and expansion. That’s a trillion-dollar free market stimulus that can create nearly three million new American jobs in the next few years. “
09.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation, which would renew the Generalized System of Preferences. Renewing the GSP program share: f t Remarks as Prepared Washington, D.C. - Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this legislation, which would renew the Generalized System of Preferences. Renewing the GSP program is one valuable step Congress can take to help spur economic and job growth in our country.As last week’s jobs number, or more accurately zero jobs number, showed us, our economy is struggling, and nearly 14 million Americans who want a job cannot find one. The lapse of the GSP program has hurt the competitiveness of American manufacturers and others who rely on GSP imports as raw materials and inputs. In Texas alone, twenty-seven companies have asked Congress to renew the GSP program. These companies import such products as chemicals, iron and steel flanges, and ceramics for use as inputs in their manufacturing operations in Texas. These imports support jobs for Texans and make Texas manufacturers more competitive when they compete against companies overseas. And the program benefits every state in this same way, not just Texas. The lapse of the GSP program since the beginning of the year has cost these Texas companies over $21 million in unnecessary duties. That $21 million that could have been used to hire more employees or invest in new equipment – instead it was taxed away from them. This legislation would provide a retroactive renewal of the GSP program and give these companies the opportunity to get these duties refunded to them. I am confident that these companies can use this $21 million far more effectively to promote jobs and invest in our economy then the federal government can.Mr. Speaker, I am particularly pleased that there is strong bipartisan support for this legislation -- I have joined Chairman Camp along with Ranking Member Levin and Congressman McDermott as original cosponsors of this legislation. As a result of this strong bipartisan support, I expect it to easily pass the House.I hope that the other body will move quickly to consider this legislation. Last December, the House passed by voice vote a renewal of the GSP program before it expired. This legislation would have prevented the lapse of the program, and Texas companies would not have had to pay over $21 million in unnecessary duties. Unfortunately, the legislation never made it out of the Senate. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge not only bipartisan support for this legislation but bicameral support for it as well so that we can get this money back into the hands of American manufacturers and job creators. Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
09.02.2011	Washington, D.C. - Heading into the Labor Day weekend, America's economic outlook remains grim. In August the unemployment rate stayed unchanged at 9.1% with share: f t Top Republican on Joint Economic Committee says Americans need new direction Washington, D.C. - Heading into the Labor Day weekend, America's economic outlook remains grim. In August the unemployment rate stayed unchanged at 9.1% with no job growth. August’s payroll job growth rate of zero is shocking. The American economy needs to create at least 130,000 jobs each month just to break even over time."More than 22 million Americans can't find full time work, while 6 million out of work Americans have been unable to find work for more than six months," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "How long must Americans suffer through this dismal economy before the White House finally changes course?"Next Thursday, President Obama will announce what his press office is touting as a new jobs strategy before a joint session of Congress.“Like the movie ‘Groundhog Day’ we will again wake up to learn the President has decided his number one focus is on jobs. What's clear is that his speech is a public admission that his economic leadership has failed to restore a strong American economy."
08.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today released the below statement following the S&P announcement of the U.S. credit rating downgrade: "I'm share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today released the below statement following the S&P announcement of the U.S. credit rating downgrade:“I'm disappointed but not surprised. Washington has piled on an unprecedented $5.5 trillion in new debt the past four years under Speaker Nancy Pelosi and President Obama. I hope this will convince Democrats in Congress to stop spending, to join us in putting America's financial house in order and saving our economy from further decay."
08.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today called on the Senate to return to Washington in order to pass the Federal Aviation share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, of Texas, today called on the Senate to return to Washington in order to pass the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) extension bill which passed the House of Representatives on July 20th. The Congressman's statement comes in the wake of multiple local airports calling on the Senate to return to Washington act.“Why are Senate Democrats irresponsibly, holding thousands of workers hostage to protect their pork projects and outrageous subsidies? The House has acted. Even the White House is calling on the Senate to pass the House bill now. For the sake of the economy and 70,000 American construction workers, the Senate needs to convene this afternoon and resolve this unnecessary dispute. Let’s put jobs ahead of pork."
08.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement after voting share: f t Washington Must Learn to Live Within its Means Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, today released the following statement after voting in support of the bipartisan Budget Control Act, which will cut spending, advance the cause of a Balanced Budget Amendment and prevent America from defaulting on its obligations. The measure passed the House of Representatives 269- 161 and will go to the Senate tonight. “Enough is enough. Washington must stop spending and learn to live within its means.“Without this Budget Control Act the federal government would keep growing to over 23% of the economy this decade; with its passage the government shrinks to 21.6%. That’s the direction President Reagan took our nation, and the economy grew strong.“Today we cut government spending by the size of the stimulus. This fall we cut it again by the size of ObamaCare. That’s a start, but hardly enough. I will continue to fight as long as it takes to stop heaping more and more debt on our children, and until we force Washington to balance its budget.”
07.30.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today voted against H.R. 2693 Senator Reid's Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation as presented would share: f t Rep. Brady statement following the failure of Senator Reid’s Budget Control Act in the House of Representatives Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today voted against H.R. 2693 Senator Reid’s Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation as presented would allow for an immediate increase in the debt ceiling, without safeguards to protect Americans from rampant federal spending:"The Senate’s inability to pass the common-sense House Budget Control Act is telling of the challenges we face in responsibly raising the debt ceiling."Instead of checking Washington’s spending and providing for a path forward, Senator Reid’s legislation hikes more than it cuts, calls for phantom savings, and it fails to provide a path to balancing the budget. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House until we find a solution that allows for America to pay its bills, but won’t bankrupt future generations."
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the vice chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement share: f t Disappointing Second Quarter Numbers Shows America’s Economy Still Lackluster “GOP Economic Leader says White House policies have failed to revive economy” Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the vice chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement after a weak 1.3% growth rate in the Second Quarter."If White House leadership on the economy for the past three years had merely been adequate, America’ s economy would be much stronger by now and Main Street would be adding hundreds of thousands of new jobs each month”, said Brady. “The second quarter growth of 1.3% confirms a lackluster recovery and reinforces the urgent need for a new economic strategy from the President.”“Jettison the talk of new taxes, stem the tide of burdensome new regulation, block the implementation of ObamaCare and get America’s financial house in order now. Those pro-growth policies will go a long way toward ending business uncertainty and turning on the flow of private business investment in America that creates jobs.”
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, issued the following statement after voting in support of the Budget Control Act of 2011, which share: f t A common-sense step forward Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, issued the following statement after voting in support of the Budget Control Act of 2011, which passed the House of Representatives today:“If we don’t start to fix Washington’s broken spending system today, when is the time? This is a common-sense step forward to cut spending now, control spending by Congress in the future, and will hold both the White House and Congress accountable to begin living within their means.“To protect this economy and preserve America’s world class credit rating, I call on Senator Reid to pass the House bill this weekend without budget gimmicks, empty promises, or tax increases on our job creators. Then we’ll start the hard work of convincing lawmakers in Washington that America needs a balanced budget amendment to the constitution that will prevent this debt crisis from every happening again.”
07.27.2011	Washington, D.C. - The United States is on the precipice of a financial crisis because Washington spends too much relative to the size of share: f t Washington, D.C. - The United States is on the precipice of a financial crisis because Washington spends too much relative to the size of our economy. Under President Obama, federal spending has grown far beyond the ability of our tax system to generate revenues from American families and businesses sufficient to pay for Washington’s overspending. The resulting large budget deficits are causing an unsustainable accumulation of federal debt.Business investment in new buildings, equipment, and software drives job creation, not federal spending. Today, both large corporations and entrepreneurs are not investing because of uncertainty. They fear higher taxes and new burdensome regulations. Consequently, job creation is anemic, the unemployment rate remains stubbornly high, and American families are suffering.As entrepreneur Steve Wynn, a self-identified Democrat, observed, “[T]his administration is the greatest wet blanket to business and progress and job creation in my lifetime. … Everybody complains about how much money is on the side in America. You bet. … [T]he business community in this country is frightened to death ...”Overspending cannot be cured by a so-called “balanced approach.” A study, Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy, published by JEC Republican staff on March 15, 2011, found that successful fiscal consolidations by our global competitors were composed of at least 85 percent spending reductions with additional revenues largely from non-tax sources such as asset sales. Balanced approaches that included both spending reductions and tax increases failed in other countries.Instinctively, Americans know that federal spending must be reduced. Nevertheless, Washington has demonstrated that it cannot maintain a spending diet. Public choice economists have identified many biases in our political system against fiscal restraint and for higher federal spending. When I became Vice Chairman, I asked the JEC Republican staff to examine what constitutional and statutory tools our global competitors and our states use to control their government spending. The results were published in the study, Maximizing America’s Prosperity, on June 21, 2011. This study found that our global competitors capped the spending of their national government relative to the size of their economy to put their fiscal house in order. Washington must do the same.Washington should also consider using a number of tools that our states employ to control their spending, including the item-reduction veto and sunset laws. The item-reduction veto allows state governors to reduce specific items in appropriations bills without vetoing an entire bill. Sunset laws require the periodic review of all state agencies and programs. State agencies and programs expire if the legislature does not renew them before their sunset date.Interestingly, the study found that effectiveness of state tax and expenditure limitations have varied greatly based on their design. In particular, expenditure limits tied to measures of a state’s actual GDP have been breached during recessions when mandated spending cuts proved to be politically unsustainable.Today’s hearing will examine how these lessons can be applied to the federal government. Like our global competitors, Congress must establish spending caps. Yet, from our states, we have learned that the durability of spending caps through business cycles depends in large part on their metrics. In my opinion, caps should be placed on federal non-interest spending. Congress can control discretionary and entitlement spending through legislation. However, interest spending is a function of past fiscal decisions, the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy, and financial market conditions largely beyond the control of Congress.Clearly, any spending caps should be related to the size of the economy over time. However, actual GDP poses a problem because it fluctuates with the business cycle. Therefore, spending caps based on actual GDP allow rapid spending growth during booms only to force large, politically unsustainable spending cuts during recessions. A better choice is potential GDP. Potential GDP is a measure of what GDP would be at full employment without inflation. It is a well understood and a widely used economic concept. For example, Stanford University economist John Taylor uses potential GDP in the “Taylor rule” to estimate what the Federal Reserve’s target rate for federal funds should be. The Congressional Budget Office already calculates potential GDP for its 10-year budget window.Potential GDP is the GDP family’s smarter brother. Using potential GDP provides a more stable path for non-interest spending through time, eliminating the spending blowouts on the upswing and preventing draconian spending cuts or the downswing that have not proven to be politically sustainable.Given the differences between Republicans and Democrats on the size and scope of the federal government, it is unlikely that we will agree on the level of spending caps. However, I hope that we could agree on the metrics used to design spending caps. I look forward to hearing the testimony of today’s witnesses. To view witness testimony please visit here:http://jec.senate.gov/republicans/public/index.cfm?p=CommitteeNews&ContentRecord_id=df95e13c-e265-4dab-b94e-78547d74e652
07.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the below statement today following the announcement of Speaker of the House John Boehner's Debt Ceiling share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the below statement today following the announcement of Speaker of the House John Boehner’s Debt Ceiling Plan:“As a Conservative, you can’t cut deep enough or soon enough for me.“Overall the plan the Speaker has presented is substantive: it rejects the President’s insistence on tax increases, requires $3 trillion in cuts to become law before the President can request a debt limit increase that will carry through to the end of next year, and it will force Congress to hold an up-or-down vote on entitlement reforms and a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. “However, the details are important, so I withhold final judgment until the full text of the bill is published and the spending cuts are verified as real and front loaded. If we don’t put real spending discipline in place, Americans may avoid a default only to invite a downgrade of America’s credit rating.”
07.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the below statement tonight following the President's prime-time address regarding the ongoing debt ceiling discussions: "If share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the below statement tonight following the President’s prime-time address regarding the ongoing debt ceiling discussions:“If the President is hoping to rally middle-class Americans behind his ‘blame Bush, blame Boehner, blame billionaires’ plea, I’m confident that he will fail. Americans know how dangerous this debt is. They know the President has failed to revive the economy while heaping more than $5 billion in new debt onto taxpayers. And they know how Washington wastes so much of their money. “It’s time for a balanced approach that cuts wasteful spending now, restricts future spending by Congress and gives voters the chance to weigh in on a balanced budget for America. That’s what Republicans are fighting for – a government that lives within its means and creates a stronger economy for our families.”
07.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - In response to recent reports that Greece has defaulted on its debt obligations to private bond holders, Congressman Kevin Brady today share: f t Washington, D.C. - In response to recent reports that Greece has defaulted on its debt obligations to private bond holders, Congressman Kevin Brady today made the following statement:“The lesson for America is that Greece didn’t default because it passed a certain date; their default was the result of the Greek government living beyond its means. Today’s news dramatically drives home the need for immediate spending cuts and significant restraints on future spending to help restore confidence in American businesses and investors. Thankfully for us, America isn’t Greece---yet.”
07.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - Republican Members of the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, led by Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, will join their share: f t Washington, D.C. - Republican Members of the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, led by Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, will join their Democrat JEC colleagues in examining how fiscal rules impact Federal spending. This is a timely discussion on enforceable spending caps, one of the key components in the ongoing debt ceiling discussion. The hearing will take place on Wednesday, July 27, 2011 in Room 216 of the Hart Senate Office Building.In announcing the hearing, Vice-Chairman Brady stated, “To avoid future default and a downgrade of America’s credit rating we need a balance of immediate spending cuts and real spending caps that shrink the size of government over time. We must examine the success stories of our foreign competitors and our states, and utilize their time-proven tools to restrain spending and boost our economy.”WHAT: Hearing on “Maximizing America’s Prosperity: How Fiscal Rules Can Restrain Federal Overspending.”WHO: The Honorable James C. Miller, III, Senior Advisor, Husch Blackwell, LLP and former Director of the Office of Management and Budget Washington, DC Dr. Daniel J. Mitchell, Senior Fellow, Cato Institute Washington, DC The Honroable Robert D. Reischauer, President, Urban Institute Washington, DC Additional witnesses may be announced WHEN: 10:00 a.m., Wednesday, July 27, 2011WHERE: 216 Hart Senate Office BuildingVice Chairman Kevin Brady presiding
07.21.2011	Washington, D.C. - With just three words 'Mission Complete, Houston,' an era of manned space flight ended this morning on a runway at Kennedy share: f t Brady echoes Atlantis Commander's words, Thanks all who have made the Shuttle a Success Washington, D.C. - With just three words 'Mission Complete, Houston,' an era of manned space flight ended this morning on a runway at Kennedy Space Center. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement to thank NASA for taking us all to to the stars. "We have cheered launches and landings and grieved along with our NASA family amid the losses of Challenger and Columbia, but today we can all reflect in awe of what the shuttle program has accomplished in its three decade history. The shuttle has been instrumental in helping us better understand manned space flight and helping us built an orbital outpost. As the program ends, I for one look forward to what NASA has in store for us for the next thirty years and beyond."
07.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today voted in support of H.R. 2560, the "Cut, Cap, and Balance Act". Following his vote, the share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today voted in support of H.R. 2560, the “Cut, Cap, and Balance Act”. Following his vote, the Congressman released the below statement:“Overall the concept of ‘Cut, Cap, and Balance’ is sound. To avoid future default and a downgrade of America’s credit rating we need a balance of immediate spending cuts, real spending caps that shrink the size of government, and the opportunity for Texans and other taxpayers to vote on a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget”, said Brady. “While I believe these spending caps should have been designed differently and we can’t count on states ratifying a balanced budget amendment, overall this bill is much more responsible than simply raising America’s borrowing limit without conditions or raising taxes on small businesses, professionals and job creators”.“The question remains– where’s the President’s plan? House Republicans have made it clear where we stand and what we stand for; when will the President do the same?”
07.18.2011	Washington, D.C. - The anemic 18,000 payroll jobs the United States gained last month clearly shows America's job creators are on strike against President share: f t Washington, D.C. - The anemic 18,000 payroll jobs the United States gained last month clearly shows America’s job creators are on strike against President Obama’s failed big government policies. If we want to spur business investment that will create new jobs we must change our fiscal course.In his 1981 inaugural address, President Reagan said, “government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.” Reagan began to reduce the size and scope of the federal government and produced spectacular growth dividends. Over the next two decades, federal spending shrank from 22 percent to 18 percent of our economy, and the United States created 37 million private payroll jobs.Since 2001, Congress has allowed federal spending to expand once again to 24 percent of our economy. Not surprisingly, the United States has lost 2.7 million private payroll jobs since then. Since 2009, when the Obama stimulus was enacted, the United States lost 1.3 million private payroll jobs. The lesson is clear: we must shrink Washington to create jobs on Main Streets around America.When I became vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, I asked my staff to study what our foreign competitors, who found themselves in fiscal trouble, did to right their situation. The findings were unambiguous: Successful countries cut government spending as a share of their economies. The countries which failed to improve their financial fortunes tried a mixture of tax increases and spending cuts. Moreover, successful countries had a strong and immediate rebound in economic growth. A second study examined which tools were effective in controlling spending. This study provides two lessons, one from our states, and one from our foreign competitors. From our competitors: federal spending must be capped relative to size of the economy. From our states: states with an item-reduction veto and sunset provisions for state agencies had less spending than other states.Applying these lessons, I introduced H.R. 2319, the Maximizing America’s Prosperity (MAP) Act to cap non-interest spending on all federal agencies and programs, and then reduce spending as a share of our economy over the next decade. A family cannot control credit card interest payments on previous debts, but a family can reduce future purchases. Similarly, Congress cannot control interest payments, but Congress can control and must be held accountable for spending on discretionary and entitlement programs. MAP Act will cut spending and reduce federal programs with a level of certainty never seen before.MAP constructs durable guardrails that will keep Washington on the path to a smaller government that fosters business investment and job creation. For the first time, MAP transforms the President’s Budget from a political wish list into a real management tool that prioritizes all non-interest spending into 5 categories from most to least essential, and proposes plans to make both Social Security and Medicare sustainable for future generations.MAP sunsets obsolete agencies and programs, would create the constitutional equivalent of an item-reduction veto, and end forever the threat of government shutdowns by allowing government operations to continue after a 10 percent cut when new spending bills are not enacted on time. This provision alone will prevent the political brinksmanship that we have seen as of late.Jim Miller observed of the MAP Act, “As Director of the Office of Management and Budget for President Ronald Reagan, I applaud Rep. Brady for introducing the MAP Act. MAP’s smart spending caps and innovative guardrails would keep Congress on the path of reducing federal spending as a percent of GDP back down to its level during the late 1990s.”MAP’s cap and guardrails will reduce federal spending and create an environment conducive to job growth. In a time where Americans and our small businesses are hurting, it is our duty to do all that we can to put Americans back to work and restore confidence in our economy.Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee.
07.18.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following statement following Moody's announcement today that the ratings agency has placed the U.S. Government bond ratings on review for possible downgrade within weeks:“Moody’s announcement is not unexpected. America is facing a serious fiscal crisis and it’s critical we handle it right and handle it now. There’s little question, America will pay its debts; the real question is whether Washington will put in place the cuts and restraints on future spending that will return our nation to a sound financial basis.”Congressman Kevin Brady represents Texas 8th District and serves as Vice Chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee and is a senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means. Brady recently authored the MAP Act, a comprehensive budget reform package to reduce spending and shrink the size of the federal government.
07.18.2011	Washington, D.C. - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is suggesting the Fed might engage in a third round of "quantitative easing" if the U.S. share: f t Washington, D.C. - Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke is suggesting the Fed might engage in a third round of “quantitative easing” if the U.S. economy continues to stagnate. In the most recent round of quantitative easing (QE), known as QE2, which ended last month, the Fed purchased $600 billion of long-term treasuries.“While it provided a lift to the stock market, the last round of quantitative easing did not accelerate job creation nor did it create certainty for America’s job creators. It succeeded however in driving down the value of the dollar and increasing the likelihood of future inflation,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “Our economic problems have grown beyond monetary solutions and are firmly fixed on Washington’s inability to restrain spending and continued focus on tax increases, heavy regulation and anti-business rhetoric.”“A third round of QE drives home the impression that the Fed has run out of bullets in boosting this economy,” added Brady. “Congress must act decisively to cut federal spending and reduce the size of the federal government relative to the economy to give American businesses the confidence to invest and create new jobs.”The Federal Reserve Chairman’s remarks came in prepared testimony today before the House Committee on Financial Services.
07.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - I am pleased that Chairman Casey convened this hearing on job training and manufacturing. Manufacturing in the United States has changed share: f t Washington, D.C. - I am pleased that Chairman Casey convened this hearing on job training and manufacturing. Manufacturing in the United States has changed dramatically over the last 60 years. Low-tech, labor-intensive goods such as apparel, shoes, sporting goods, and toys that were once made in America are now imported, while U.S. manufacturers export high-tech, capital-intensive goods to the rest of the world.Computer-driven machinery has replaced routine labor in manufacturing. This has boosted productivity growth, averaging 2.9 percent a year. What took 1,000 workers to manufacture in 1950 now takes only 184 workers. Consequently, manufacturing jobs as a share of total non-farm jobs have declined from 30.6 percent in 1950 to 8.9 percent in 2010.Six decades ago, a high school dropout with no special skills could get a job on an assembly line, work hard, and over time enter the middle class. Today, a job in manufacturing demands special skills and may even require a college degree.The changing nature of manufacturing demonstrates the importance of job training for the success of both America’s manufacturers and their workers. Congress enacted the Workforce Investment Act in 1998 to consolidate the federal government’s fragmented job training system into a coherent one-stop system that could serve the needs of employers and workers. However, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found continuing fragmentation, overlap, and potential duplication in job training programs run by multiple federal agencies. For fiscal year 2009, the GAO found 47 federally funded job training programs administered across nine agencies. Almost all of those programs overlap with other programs in the provision of similar services but with differences in eligibility, objectives, and service delivery.In addition to costly duplication, federal job training programs do not necessarily serve their purpose well either for those seeking jobs or workers seeking retraining. Job training programs that work best are employer-driven, not bureaucracy-driven. Manufacturers know what skills employees need to succeed better than bureaucrats.The Senate will soon be reconsidering the Workforce Investment Act. Congress has an opportunity to consolidate and reform existing federal job training programs and to improve their value for U.S. taxpayers. I urge Republicans and Democrats in both Houses of Congress to seize this opportunity.However, the best job training programs are meaningless if there are no jobs available for their graduates. The Employment Situation Report for June, which was released last Friday, confirms that the economic policies of President Obama and Congressional Democrats are failing to revive our moribund economy and create jobs – manufacturing or otherwise.By the Obama Administration’s own standards, its stimulus plan has failed to create jobs. According to the June report, the United States still has 6.5 million fewer payroll jobs than promised. And June’s unemployment rate of 9.2 percent is far above the promised 6.7 percent.History demonstrates that business investment in new buildings, equipment, and software, not federal spending, drives the creation of new payroll jobs. U.S. businesses are sitting on nearly $2 trillion that they could invest here at home to create jobs for American workers, but they are refusing to do so.Why does American capital seem to be “on strike”? The answer is that the Administration’s economic policies keep businesses guessing what onerous burdens await them. As several Texas businessmen have told me, “Predicting market conditions is what we do for a living, but predicting what the President and Congress may do—forget it!”It now is widely understood that excessive federal spending, budget deficits, and debt accumulation mortgage our economic future and increase uncertainty over the size and form of future tax increases. However, we also have a regulatory explosion under President Obama that thwarts business expansion and increases uncertainty.Here are just a few examples of regulatory excesses that discourage job creation:The State Department’s failure to issue a construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada, a project estimated to create over 13,000 high-wage manufacturing and construction jobs in 2011-2012 across the country, stimulating significant additional economic activity. The Administration’s moratorium on and subsequent slow rolling of permits for deep-water oil exploration and development;The EPA’s proposed regulations on greenhouse gas emissions; andThe National Labor Relations Board’s unprecedented actions against Boeing for locating one of its manufacturing facilities in South Carolina.While solving our fiscal problems requires congressional action, President Obama could end his regulatory onslaught on American business on his own and without delay. If President Obama is serious about relieving unemployment, he should act now to reverse his Administration’s confidence-shattering, job-destroying regulatory policies.I look forward to hearing the testimony of today’s witnesses.
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - The nation's unemployment rate inched up to 9.2% in June as our economy created an anemic 18,000 total payroll jobs when share: f t House Economic Leader says the choice is a growing economy or a growing government Washington, D.C. - The nation's unemployment rate inched up to 9.2% in June as our economy created an anemic 18,000 total payroll jobs when roughly 250,000 new payroll jobs are needed to significantly reduce the unemployment rate."America is at an economic decision point," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "When the choice is between growing the federal government and growing jobs, I choose jobs."From 1981-2001, Congress cut the size of the federal government from 22% of our nation's Gross Domestic Product to 18%. The result was 37 million new private sector jobs – an increase of 50%. As government grew again, Main Street lost 2.7 million jobs."We are several million jobs below what the stimulus sales pitch promised," concluded Brady. "Big government solutions have failed and there are fewer Americans in the workforce now than in the past quarter century. The choice here is an easy one."Brady has introduced the MAP Act which, if enacted, will decrease the size of the federal government and allow the private sector to do what it does best -- create jobs. The MAP act caps and then reduces federal spending as a share of our economy down to its level during the prosperous second half of 1990s. MAP also has durable guardrails to enforce these spending caps.
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) today introduced bipartisan legislation that will help protect small businesses and ensure better share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Mike Thompson (D-CA) today introduced bipartisan legislation that will help protect small businesses and ensure better compliance with complex federal employment tax responsibilities. H.R. 2466, The Small Business Efficiency Act of 2011 would provide clear rules for Professional Employer Organizations (PEOs) that are voluntarily certified by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to collect and pay federal employment taxes for their small business clients. The legislation will provide certainty for small businesses that use certified PEO services and allow employers to focus on their core business, not government paperwork. “America’s economic recovery depends upon our small businesses being able to create jobs and this bill helps get Washington out of their way," said Rep. Brady, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Our legislation provides small business owners the flexibility to do what they do best – deliver quality products and services to their customers and expand their businesses, instead of worrying about reams of government paperwork.”“Congressman Brady and I introduced the Small Business Efficiency Act to remove the regulatory burdens that stand in the way of small business success,” said Rep. Thompson, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee. “By providing clear rules for Professional Employer Organizations to collect and pay federal taxes on behalf of their small business clients, our bill will allow small businesses to focus on innovating, growing, and creating good-paying jobs. These are the kinds of smart, targeted policies that will keep our small businesses – and our economy – on the path to prosperity.”PEOs provide human resources services to their small business clients, including access to retirement plans, health insurance, life insurance, and other benefits that many small businesses would not otherwise be able to afford. One of the most important tasks that PEOs can perform for small businesses is the collection and payment of employment taxes. The Small Business Efficiency Act would create a voluntary IRS certification process to strengthen the ability of PEOs to accept liability for filing payroll taxes of their clients’ employees and, in the process, reduce the amount of burdensome paperwork for small businesses. “I have started three businesses, and I would not start a fourth without the ability to use a PEO to help me take care of my people,” said Stephen King, a Texas Small Business Owner. “As CEO of Growth Force, I applaud the introduction of the Small Business Efficiency Act because it will allow me to continue to leverage our PEO relationship with Insperity to reach our growth potential and create more jobs in Montgomery County in the next five years.”To become a certified PEO (CPEO) under Congressmen Brady and Thompson’s legislation, a PEO must meet certain basic financial conditions, satisfy reporting obligations, and maintain ongoing certification with the IRS. After meeting certification requirements, the CPEO would assume full and sole responsibility and liability for employment taxes due as long as they are certified.
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, today issued the following statement in honor of the final Space Shuttle Atlantis launch. "For three decades, share: f t Rep. Brady thanks Americans who made the shuttle the first space 'workhorse' Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, today issued the following statement in honor of the final Space Shuttle Atlantis launch."For three decades, NASA's space shuttles, astronauts, scientists and ground crews have made what was once seen as impossible, look effortless. Like all Americans, I grieved with the NASA family over the losses of Challenger and Columbia, and then watched with pride as our workhorse shuttles returned to flight. To generations of Americans, space exploration is synonymous with hope, because NASA appeals to the explorer in us all.”“While today’s final space shuttle launch marks the end of an era, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Texas delegation to see that our opportunities remain unlimited and that America’s space program continues to lead the way to the stars.
06.30.2011	The Honorable Eric K. ShinsekiSecretary of Veterans AffairsU.S. Department of Veterans Affairs810 Vermont Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary Shinseki: share: f t The Honorable Eric K. ShinsekiSecretary of Veterans AffairsU.S. Department of Veterans Affairs810 Vermont Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20420 Dear Secretary Shinseki: I am deeply troubled by complaints that the Houston Veterans Cemetery is discriminatingagainst private religious speech and ask your immediate attention to this matter. A complaint filed in federal district court on behalf of The American Legion Post 586, Veteransof Foreign Wars - District 4 and the National Memorial Ladies alleges that Houston VeteransCemetery Director Arleen Ocasio banned veterans organizations and volunteer groups fromusing certain religious words such as "God" or "Jesus," censored the content of prayer andforbade the use of religious messages in burial rituals unless the deceased's family submitted thetext for prior approval. The complaint further alleges that the VA prohibited volunteer honorguards from providing optional recitations to families for consideration, and that when burialteams conduct military honors for a veteran's funeral, a government official monitors what issaid, according to the Houston Chronicle. Please respond to my office in writing whether these allegations are in fact true and whetherDirector Ocasio has acted independently of Department of Veterans Affairs policy or if thisstandard is the result of a directive made by your office. These allegations are deeply disturbing and if true an unbelievable outrage and an unimaginableaffront to the freedoms these men and women risked and sacrificed their lives for. I trust thatyou will make haste in publicly resolving this matter. Sincerely, Kevin Brady
06.24.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady voted today in support of H.R. 2278, which would limit funds with respect to U.S. Armed Forces in share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady voted today in support of H.R. 2278, which would limit funds with respect to U.S. Armed Forces in Libya. The bill failed to pass the House by 180 to 238 votes. Following the vote, the Congressman released the below statement:“We shouldn’t be in Libya, especially without a clear mission, but how we exit matters to American credibility. This bill sends a clear signal to the president--- this engagement is not authorized by Congress--- but does so in a way that doesn’t leave our important allies hanging.”
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, today introduced legislation that would impose mandatory smart caps on federal spending and provide for flexible fiscal guardrails share: f t "If Washington Were a Manufacturing Plant, It Would Manufacture Spending" Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, today introduced legislation that would impose mandatory smart caps on federal spending and provide for flexible fiscal guardrails that shrink the size of government.“Creating jobs is our number one priority. In order to get our economy moving again we need to put America’s fiscal house in order,” said Brady. “Our federal government is already too big, and is only growing bigger under this Administration. This represents a significant threat to our nation’s future prosperity."Brady unveiled details of his proposal today during an address at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. The legislation, titled the “Maximizing America’s Prosperity Act” imposes smart statutory caps on congressionally controllable spending relative to the size of the economy.“Our persistent deficits and growing debt are significant road blocks to job creation. However, debt and deficits are merely symptoms of an underlying disease – excessive federal spending. We need to treat the disease in order to alleviate the symptoms,” Brady added.In addition to mandatory smart caps on spending, Brady’s legislation includes other important guardrails around Congress and the White House to keep America on the path to restoring fiscal responsibility:A politically sustainable and tough sequestration process that would put every federal spending program at risk – no sacred cows – for spending reductions if Congress and the White House fail to comply with the smart caps;Would transform the President’s budget from of political wish list into a meaningful decision-making tool by requiring that it comply with the mandatory smart caps;For the first time ever, the budget would be required to prioritize every dollar of federal spending into 5 categories from most to least essential. Each category could contain no less than 12% of spending;An Item Reduction veto that would allow the President to reduce the amount of any appropriation and have that proposal given a prompt up or down vote;A Sunset Commission to make every federal agency justify its existence like the Sunset Commission in Texas that has saved taxpayers millions of dollars;A permanent continuing resolution that sets spending at 90% of the prior year’s levels. This would avoid government shutdown threats that result in higher spending by establishing a default position where the government spends less.Brady concluded, "Experience at the federal level, the state level and among our global competitors offers us important lessons in how to get the job done. We need to learn from those lessons. We don’t have the luxury to wait."Despite being released only a short while ago, The MAP Act has garnered significant grassroots support, as shown below:“Representative Brady is to be commended for sponsoring the most comprehensive and well-conceived plan ever to reduce the size of the federal government and protect the American people from higher taxes.”--- Kevin Hassett of the American Enterprise Institute“Because they are thorough, and well put together the fiscal reforms in the MAP Act would – over a period of several years – significantly reduce the burden federal spending and save America from a fiscal crisis.”---Dan Mitchell of the Cato Institute“As Director of the Office of Management and Budget for President Ronald Reagan, I applaud Rep. Brady for introducing the MAP Act. MAP’s smart spending caps and innovative guardrails would keep Congress on the path of reducing federal spending as a percent of GDP back down to its level during the late 1990s.”---Jim Miller, Senior Advisor to Husch Blackwell, LLP, and former member of President Ronald Reagan’s cabinet“At a time when the nation’s debt has ballooned to more than $14.4 trillion, members of Congress should be looking for every viable way to slash wasteful programs and curtail superfluous spending. The MAP Act safeguards taxpayers against irresponsible increases in federal expenditures, encourages healthy budgeting, promotes transparent accounting practices, and provides a framework to keep lawmakers in check.”---Thomas Schatz, President of Citizens Against Government Waste Congressman Kevin Brady represents Texas 8th District and serves as Vice Chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee and is a senior member of the House Committee on Ways & Means.For additional information, see http://jec.senate.gov/republicans/public/
06.21.2011	Chairman Casey and I have agreed to share the task of organizing hearings for the Joint Economic Committee during the 112th Congress. share: f t Chairman Casey and I have agreed to share the task of organizing hearings for the Joint Economic Committee during the 112th Congress. Pursuant to our agreement, I convened this hearing because the once vigorous American economy is languishing.A recent op-ed by Harvard University Professor Martin Feldstein entitled, “The Economy Is Worse than You Think,” laments that final sales grew at an anemic annual rate of 0.6 percent during the first quarter of 2011. The month of May witnessed the unemployment rate rising above 9 percent again and a collapse of payroll employment gains.. Feldstein offers us another wakeup call.President Obama’s economic policies have failed to launch a vigorous expansion. Instead, his policies have increased the cost of doing business, heightened uncertainty, and deterred job-creating investment. Moreover, his policies have burdened our children with an enormous federal debt that continues to grow as a share of the economy.One of our witnesses, Stanford University Professor John Taylor, published a graph that depicts President Obama’s last two spending proposals, his Budget in February and his informal framework in April, and compares them with the House budget resolution. From this graph, it is clear that President Obama and Congressional Democrats want to make federal spending a permanently larger share of our economy, whereas Congressional Republicans want merely to return federal spending to its pre-recession share of our economy.Returning federal spending to a pre-recession share of the economy is normal and prudent. Nevertheless, President Obama and Congressional Democrats have embraced a radical, historically unprecedented expansion in the size and scope of the federal government.Let me be clear. Excessive federal spending is our disease. Large federal budget deficits and accumulating federal debt are symptoms of this disease. If you cure our spending disease, the symptoms will vanish. If you treat the symptoms, you may temporarily alleviate some of the pain, but over time our economy will continue to weaken, our international competitiveness will erode, and our children will become the first generation in American history that is poorer than the previous generation.In response to these grave fiscal challenges, the House of Representatives passed a responsible budget resolution that would bring federal spending in line with revenue over time. Unfortunately, the Senate has failed to even consider, let alone pass, a budget resolution.Congressional Republicans want to cure our spending disease, in part, by reforming entitlement programs to make them sustainably solvent for future generations. In contrast, President Obama and Congressional Democrats are still flogging the discredited notion that entitlement programs can largely continue as they are without reforms if we only “tax the rich” enough.Congressional Republicans are demanding that any debt ceiling legislation must contain substantial spending reductions and new fiscal guardrails to ensure these reductions actually take place. In response, President Obama and Congressional Democrats have launched all-out political attacks, asserting cuts in federal spending would push the economy back into recession and destroy social programs. These false attacks must cease if Americans are to come together to reduce federal spending and grow our economy.On March 15, 2011, I released a JEC Staff Commentary entitled Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy. This study examined other developed countries – our international competitors – that had large, persistent government budget deficits and a high level of government debt. This study found:Countries that adopted fiscal consolidation plans to reduce their government budget deficits and stabilize the level of government debt that were based predominantly or entirely on government spending reductions were successful in achieving their goals, while countries that included significant tax increases in their fiscal consolidation plans failed to achieve their goals.Fiscal consolidation plans based predominantly or entirely on government spending reductions not only increased economic growth over the long term, but also provided a significant short-term boost in many cases.Today, I am releasing another JEC Republican Staff Commentary entitled Maximizing America’s Prosperity. This study examined what fiscal “guardrails” would keep Congress on track to reduce federal spending relative to the size of our economy. This study found:A balanced-budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution would not counteract the bias toward higher federal spending unless it contains explicit spending limitations. The federal government needs a statutory spending cap with a credible enforcement mechanism regardless of whether a constitutional balanced-budget amendment is ratified.The item-reduction veto has reduced the growth of state spending by strengthening the role of the governor relative to the legislature in making spending decisions. Enhanced rescission authority would also help to control the growth of spending at the federal level. Sunset provisions, which have been effective in eliminating inefficient and unnecessary programs and agencies in U.S. states, would be helpful at the federal level.So long as President Obama and Congressional Democrats continue to behave in politically expedient, but fiscally irresponsible ways, American families and businesses will look to the future with trepidation. Promises of fiscal rectitude in the out years will no longer suffice. As Eliza Doolittle sung in the musical My Fair Lady, the American people are saying, “show me now.”I look forward to hearing the testimony of our witnesses.
06.21.2011	Washington, D.C. - This afternoon, the Joint Economic Committee Republicans, led by Vice-Chairman Kevin Brady released a report titled Maximizing America's Prosperity: Lessons share: f t Maximizing America’s Prosperity lies in Fiscal Restraint and Comprehensive Spending Controls Washington, D.C. - This afternoon, the Joint Economic Committee Republicans, led by Vice-Chairman Kevin Brady released a report titled Maximizing America’s Prosperity: Lessons on Fiscal Rules from Other Developed Countries and U.S. States. During the Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy hearing, JEC members heard testimony from The Honorable John B. Taylor from Stanford’s Hoover Institution, Dr. Simon Johnson from MIT’s School of Management; Dr. Kevin Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies at the American Enterprise Institute, and Dr. Chad Stone, Chief Economist for the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities. Below are some of the key findings from the JEC report.A balanced-budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution is unlikely to counteract the bias toward higher federal spending unless it is combined with explicit spending limitations.Constitutional balanced-budget provisions are not self-executing and must be supplemented by other statutory fiscal rules.Government spending caps expressed as a percentage of GDP have been successful in countries that have undergone fiscal consolidations.The U.S. government needs a statutory spending cap with a credible enforcement mechanism regardless of whether a constitutional balanced-budget amendment is ratified.The item-reduction veto has reduced the growth of spending in U.S. states by strengthening the role of the governor relative to the legislature in making spending decisions.Sunset provisions have been effective by eliminating inefficient and unnecessary programs and agencies in U.S. states.The effectiveness of tax and expenditure limitations in U.S. states has varied greatly based on their design.Testimony offered by the witnesses emphasized the need for Congress to address the United States’ impending fiscal crisis and to implement a series of well-designed, workable, and automatically enforceable fiscal rules. Several highlights from the testimony follow.“The best way to reap the benefits of a return to a sound fiscal policy is with a credible and transparent budget strategy. Having a strategy is important because it enables the private sector to know what to expect in the years ahead and allows businesses to bolster their hiring and investing accordingly. Credibility is important because it helps alleviate people’s concerns about higher future taxes or higher debt; if people are not confident that the government will follow through on promises to reduce spending in the future, then they will remain reluctant to move ahead. Economic simulations with forward-looking econometric models demonstrate the importance of credibility in budget consolidation plans.”The Honorable John. B Taylor, George P. Shultz Senior Fellow in Economics at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution.“The sorry state of the current economy is the predictable result of a serious policy error that appears to have been motivated by a fundamental misunderstanding of the economic challenges we face as a nation.“Those challenges should have been clear. Economists Carmen Reinhart and KennethRogoff have studied the history of financial crises and found that they inevitably create lengthy periods of slow economic growth….the typical duration of the employment downturn after a financial crisis is 4.8 years. Another study found that economic growth rates tend to be lower for as much as a decade after the crisis. Given that such a lengthy period of slow growth is the challenge, it was a mistake to address it with short term Keynesian stimulus.”Kevin A. Hassett, Director of Economic Policy Studies at The American Enterprise InstituteA copy of the report, “Maximizing America’s Prosperity” is attached.
06.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - The top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, will unveil new legislation at the share: f t Rep. Kevin Brady to Unveil New Legislative Proposal to Shrink Government, Place Spending Guardrails Around Path to Prosperity Washington, D.C. - The top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, will unveil new legislation at the American Enterprise Institute this Wednesday which proposes a comprehensive way to control federal spending. It is especially timely as the White House and Congress debate budget reform in advance of the vote to increase the nation's debt ceiling.The address is scheduled for Wednesday, June 22, 2011 at 12:30 p.m. at the offices of AEI, located at 1150 Seventeenth Street, NW , in Washington D.C. WHAT: Congressman Kevin Brady delivers speech at AEI on controlling Congressional SpendingWHO: Congressman Kevin Brady, Senior Member of the House Ways & Means Committee and Vice-Chairman of the Joint Economic CommitteeKevin A. Hassett, Senior Fellow & Director of Economic Policy Studies at AEIWHEN: 12:30 p.m., Wednesday, June 22, 2011WHERE: AEI Main Conference Room, 12th Floor 1150 Seventeenth Street, NW Washington, DC 20036Address will be live streamed starting at 12:30 p.m. at http://www.aei.org/event/100428
06.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Republican members of the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, led by Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, will join share: f t Washington, D.C. - Republican members of the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress, led by Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, will join their Democrat JEC colleagues in holding a hearing on how the United States can boost economic growth and job creation through the reduction of federal spending. The hearing, which will focus on the results of a recent economic report identifying the experiences of America’s global competitors in reducing their debt and its impact on their economies, will take place on Tuesday, June 21, 2011 at 2 p.m. in Room 1100 of the Longworth House Office Building. In announcing the hearing, Vice-Chairman Brady stated, “America’s troubling economic recovery needs a fresh approach. Lawmakers in Congress must gain a deeper understanding of how other countries, our global competitors, have reduced their dangerous levels of debt and grew their economy in the short term by reducing spending and addressing unsustainable entitlement growth.” WHAT: Hearing on “Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy”WHO: The Honorable John B. Taylor, Ph.D., George P. Shultz Senior Fellow in Economics, the Hoover Institution, and the Mary and Robert Raymond Professor of Economics, Stanford University Stanford, CA Dr. Simon Johnson, Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship, MIT Sloan School of Management and Senior Fellow, Peterson Institute for International Economics Cambridge, MA and Washington, DC Dr. Kevin A. Hassett, Senior Fellow and Director of Economic Policy Studies, American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research Washington, DC Dr. Chad Stone, Chief Economist, Center for Budget and Policy Priorities Washington, DC WHEN: 2:00 p.m., Tuesday, June 21, 2011WHERE: 1100 Longworth House Office Building
06.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Kevin Brady and Jim Matheson today released the following statement in response to the Administration's opposition to lowering tax barriers share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressmen Kevin Brady and Jim Matheson today released the following statement in response to the Administration’s opposition to lowering tax barriers to encourage American companies with earnings overseas to bring those dollars back to the U.S. for investment. “In this economy, why the President would turn down an immediate opportunity to bring back $1 trillion in American profits is beyond me,” said Brady. “U.S. profits which are stranded overseas would allow American business to create much needed jobs, invest in infrastructure, and strengthen their companies.”H.R. 1834: the Freedom to Invest Act of 2011, introduced by Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Congressman Jim Matheson (D-UT), would temporarily lower a tax barrier to encourage American companies selling their goods and services abroad to bring those earnings back to the U.S. for investment. Presently more than $1 trillion dollars in capital earned by American companies and workers is stranded overseas, due to an out-dated tax structure that penalizes companies for bringing global earnings dollars back home to invest in the United States.“Putting more private sector capital into the U.S. economy will strengthen recovery efforts and help reduce the federal deficit,” said Matheson. “Let’s do some good now, for American employers and for the U.S. taxpayer, rather than do nothing by maintaining the status quo.”The last time businesses were allowed to repatriate their overseas earnings in 2004, the S&P rallied 6.5% and gained 15% by the end of the next year. Real GDP grew substantially, from 3.1% in 2004 to 4.3% in 2005, and unemployment dropped from 5.5% in 2004 to 5.0% in 2005, and continuing to drop to 4.5% in 2006.
06.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - "Thanks so much, Terry, for that kind introduction. I would like to thank ECAT for hosting this lunch. I would also share: f t Washington, D.C. - "Thanks so much, Terry, for that kind introduction. I would like to thank ECAT for hosting this lunch. I would also like to welcome our many distinguished guests, including numerous ambassadors and members of the diplomatic community, as well as senior officials from a number of U.S. agencies.ECAT is an important voice about the benefits of international trade and investment. ECAT’s mission is vital today because the public perception of trade is not always that favorable, which creates very tough politics here in Washington.You’ve heard the numbers, but they bear repeating. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll last November found that almost half of Americans (47%) think that free trade hurts the United States. Almost the same percentage of Americans (42%) told the Washington Post later in January that the trend toward a global economy is a bad thing for America.Pessimism about trade could not come at a worse time in our economic history. Expanding international trade is a vital component in restarting our stalled economy and putting America on the path to continued growth and prosperity.International trade provides new and expanding markets for our goods and services and increases the competitiveness of our companies and workers through global supply chains. Trade also allows consumers to get the most value and variety for their hard-earned dollars.I am glad that we are finally getting off the sidelines and moving forward with a proactive trade agenda. Since January, we have made more progress on the trade front than in the prior four years.I would like to share with you where things stand now on trade and where I see the greatest opportunities for the future.My priorities are:• Opening new markets for U.S. exports and creating U.S. jobs through moving the pending trade agreements• Improving trade facilitation, the bread and butter of the trade world, to make trade better, faster, and cheaper• Avoiding protectionism, including by assuring that we are in compliance with our trade obligations, so we can credibly argue that our trading partners should be in compliance with theirsChairman Camp, Speaker Boehner, many others, and I are working hard to get all three pending trade agreements considered in the few weeks remaining this summer. As you know, these agreements have the potential to add over $10 billion to our economy and will help to reinforce vital strategic partnerships. Many of you in the room have been essential to convincing the Administration and many of my colleagues in Congress of the need to move these agreements quickly.We are not moving as fast as I would like, but I remain optimistic that we can meet this timetable. The fact is that there is strong bipartisan support in both chambers of Congress for moving all three agreements.We expect to hold our Ways & Means non-markups for the three agreements next week. Now that Colombia has met the second tranche of its action plan, the Administration should send up the bills right after that non-markup. Then we would move right to the floor in July after our formal markups.The need to act is urgent. Colombia, Panama, and South Korea are negotiating and completing agreements with other countries. Unless we pass and implement our agreements soon, I am very concerned that America and our farmers, ranchers, and workers will be left further behind. We have already lost market share because of our delay, particularly in Colombia.In addition, I’m well aware that the United States must pass these agreements to build confidence that we are back in the trade game. Trade officials and business people from around the world have told me that the U.S. and this Administration in particular will simply not be credible on trade until the three trade agreements are passed.As everyone in this room surely knows, the Administration recently announced that we must have a deal on Trade Adjustment Assistance before it will send the pending agreements to Congress. This announcement came as a bit of a surprise, to put it mildly.I, together with Chairman Camp, am working to find a bipartisan path forward, but there should be no illusion that we will be able to pass the 2009 bill given strong Republican concerns about spending.In short, we will not reach a bipartisan deal as long as Democrats insist on essentially renewing the 2009 version of the TAA program. Many Republicans see that program as wasteful, costly, and ineffective, and they are demanding spending cuts necessary to put our financial house in order.At the same time, the Administration must build confidence that it will in fact send the trade agreements to Congress.In addition to our pending trade agreements, new initiatives to create jobs and increase our competitiveness are essential. Other countries are aggressively building new economic relations, while we are pursuing only one trade agreement. Our bilateral investment treaty negotiations, including important negotiations with China, have sat idle for more than two years.Simply focusing on tariffs, import quotas, and other traditional barriers to trade is no longer enough. We must seek 21st century solutions to facilitate trade, end non-tariff barriers, and promote regulatory coherence. I want to work with you to develop new and creative approaches to these problems.That is why I have been a strong supporter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which enjoys bipartisan support. It is important that the TPP have high standards that existing and future members are expected to meet.The TPP enables us to deepen our relations in the fast-growing Asia-Pacific region and allows us to connect Asia and Latin America. I see the TPP as a "plug and play" agreement that countries willing to meet its standards can join over time. I also see it as a stepping-stone to the eventual goal of an FTAAP.The regional nature of the TPP also allows our countries to address important "horizontal" issues such as "behind the border" barriers and trade facilitation.It is becoming increasingly clear that an ambitious outcome to the Doha round of trade talks on the key market access issues is not feasible this year. This is deeply disappointing news. Congress has supported the current and prior Administrations in their good work to find a path forward in the negotiations. We must now start to think realistically about practical, achievable steps that might lead us in a more hopeful direction. As we begin this process, we must keep in mind that any outcome must be balanced, ambitious and benefit our manufacturers, farmers, and service providers.China, India, and Brazil must show a level of ambition that reflects their important roles in the global economy. That has not occurred, and this lack of commitment has created the impasse we now face.We are discussing options and potential next steps with the Administration.I have been open-minded about these next steps, but our position must be balanced and support a wide range of U.S. sectors.And we must see flexibility from the major emerging economies. Our exploration of next steps is not an excuse to let China, India, and Brazil off the hook. We should not agree to a weak or substandard agreement simply so we can get an agreement. An unappetizing small meal is just as unsatisfactory as an unappetizing large one.I’d like to touch on U.S.-China relations for just a minute. Past Congresses have looked at China policies in a vacuum, focusing almost entirely on China’s misaligned currency.China’s currency is a perennial problem and a high priority, but it is not the only challenge facing us. China must take concrete steps to refocus its economy away from export-led growth and to encourage domestic growth. Throughout that process, China must also open up its market more fully and come into compliance with its existing obligations.My colleagues and I are working hard to reorient Congress’s approach to China by focusing on the full range of issues inhibiting U.S. companies from selling their goods and services in China, including Chinese indigenous innovation requirements, subsidized capital, directed lending policies, intellectual property theft, and restrictions on exports of key raw materials – as well as currency misalignment and China’s closed capital account.We raise these issues regularly with the Chinese, including with Vice Premier Wang (WAHNG) when he was in town for the S&ED just a few weeks ago. Ahead of the Strategic & Economic Dialogue last month, Chairman Camp and I led a letter – which all Republican Members of the Ways & Means Committee signed – highlighting these issues.We also need meaningful metrics to measure whether China is actually complying with the obligations that it commits to in such meetings like the S&ED, and I have encouraged USTR to develop these tools. Talking is not enough. We need to see concrete improvements.And where negotiations are unsuccessful, we need to aggressively pursue WTO violations when they occur.I would also note that it is high-time that we resuscitate the bilateral investment treaty negotiations begun with China several years ago. An agreement would provide important protections and level the playing field for U.S. investors. China already has 70 BITs in place with our competitors. Continued delay is unacceptable.Another priority area for me is easing the flow of goods and services across borders through trade facilitation. To this end, I plan to continue the bipartisan work that the Committee has done on a customs reauthorization bill and also coordinate with other committees to ensure that our trade policies help our workers compete, not hold them back.Finally, we must aggressively enforce our rights in our existing agreements. If countries are not living up to their obligations, we should use the tools we have in these agreements to resolve these issues.However, this also means that the United States must comply with and live up to our own obligations. We cannot lecture other countries on meeting their obligations if we won’t meet ours. In that regard, I hope that we will quickly come into compliance with our NAFTA trucking obligations so we can set a good example – and end the costly retaliation against us.I also hope that we can find a way to address amendments included in the Agriculture Appropriations bill concerning our settlement with Brazil in the cotton case. While I believe that the settlement is an unsatisfactory means of resolving the dispute, that settlement protects us from costly retaliation, particularly with respect to intellectual property. I am working with Ag Committee Chairman Lucas on this problem.In closing, we should all welcome the progress on trade this year. The United States is back in the game again, and I am eager to regain the edge we lost while we sat on the sidelines.However, do not forget the unfortunate poll results that I mentioned earlier. If the American people do not believe in the benefits of international trade and investment, we could easily see a reverse in course.Many of you have heard me say this before: We all need to do a better job in convincing the American people why international trade and investment will make themselves, their children and their country more prosperous. We must counter the doomsayers who say that we should close our borders and that America’s best days are behind it.Repeating the same talking points to those who already agree with us will not work. We need to develop new and creative approaches to build support for international trade.My charge to ECAT and its members is to provide this needed creativity and help change the public’s negative perception of trade. You know firsthand the benefits of trade, and your success shows that you know how to be innovative.There has been a saying around town that the U.S. needs to "out compete" the rest of the world. Well, we also need to out-compete those who continue to bash free trade and win the hearts and minds of the public.Otherwise, America won’t just be sitting on the sidelines; it will no longer be able to show up at all.Thank you."
06.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - I am pleased that Chairman Casey convened this hearing on job training and manufacturing. Manufacturing in the United States has changed share: f t Washington, D.C. - I am pleased that Chairman Casey convened this hearing on job training and manufacturing. Manufacturing in the United States has changed dramatically over the last 60 years. Low-tech, labor-intensive goods such as apparel, shoes, sporting goods, and toys that were once made in America are now imported, while U.S. manufacturers export high-tech, capital-intensive goods to the rest of the world.Computer-driven machinery has replaced routine labor in manufacturing. This has boosted productivity growth, averaging 2.9 percent a year. What took 1,000 workers to manufacture in 1950 now takes only 184 workers. Consequently, manufacturing jobs as a share of total non-farm jobs have declined from 30.6 percent in 1950 to 8.9 percent in 2010.Six decades ago, a high school dropout with no special skills could get a job on an assembly line, work hard, and over time enter the middle class. Today, a job in manufacturing demands special skills and may even require a college degree.The changing nature of manufacturing demonstrates the importance of job training for the success of both America’s manufacturers and their workers. Congress enacted the Workforce Investment Act in 1998 to consolidate the federal government’s fragmented job training system into a coherent one-stop system that could serve the needs of employers and workers. However, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found continuing fragmentation, overlap, and potential duplication in job training programs run by multiple federal agencies. For fiscal year 2009, the GAO found 47 federally funded job training programs administered across nine agencies. Almost all of those programs overlap with other programs in the provision of similar services but with differences in eligibility, objectives, and service delivery.In addition to costly duplication, federal job training programs do not necessarily serve their purpose well either for those seeking jobs or workers seeking retraining. Job training programs that work best are employer-driven, not bureaucracy-driven. Manufacturers know what skills employees need to succeed better than bureaucrats.The Senate will soon be reconsidering the Workforce Investment Act. Congress has an opportunity to consolidate and reform existing federal job training programs and to improve their value for U.S. taxpayers. I urge Republicans and Democrats in both Houses of Congress to seize this opportunity.However, the best job training programs are meaningless if there are no jobs available for their graduates. The Employment Situation Report for June, which was released last Friday, confirms that the economic policies of President Obama and Congressional Democrats are failing to revive our moribund economy and create jobs – manufacturing or otherwise.By the Obama Administration’s own standards, its stimulus plan has failed to create jobs. According to the June report, the United States still has 6.5 million fewer payroll jobs than promised. And June’s unemployment rate of 9.2 percent is far above the promised 6.7 percent.History demonstrates that business investment in new buildings, equipment, and software, not federal spending, drives the creation of new payroll jobs. U.S. businesses are sitting on nearly $2 trillion that they could invest here at home to create jobs for American workers, but they are refusing to do so.Why does American capital seem to be “on strike”? The answer is that the Administration’s economic policies keep businesses guessing what onerous burdens await them. As several Texas businessmen have told me, “Predicting market conditions is what we do for a living, but predicting what the President and Congress may do—forget it!”It now is widely understood that excessive federal spending, budget deficits, and debt accumulation mortgage our economic future and increase uncertainty over the size and form of future tax increases. However, we also have a regulatory explosion under President Obama that thwarts business expansion and increases uncertainty.Here are just a few examples of regulatory excesses that discourage job creation:The State Department’s failure to issue a construction permit for the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada, a project estimated to create over 13,000 high-wage manufacturing and construction jobs in 2011-2012 across the country, stimulating significant additional economic activity. The Administration’s moratorium on and subsequent slow rolling of permits for deep-water oil exploration and development;The EPA’s proposed regulations on greenhouse gas emissions; andThe National Labor Relations Board’s unprecedented actions against Boeing for locating one of its manufacturing facilities in South Carolina.While solving our fiscal problems requires congressional action, President Obama could end his regulatory onslaught on American business on his own and without delay. If President Obama is serious about relieving unemployment, he should act now to reverse his Administration’s confidence-shattering, job-destroying regulatory policies.I look forward to hearing the testimony of today’s witnesses.
06.03.2011	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. unemployment rate crept back up to a disappointing 9.1% percent for May, according to data just released by the share: f t House Economic Leader: Our Job Creators need Washington to do the Right Thing Washington, D.C. - The U.S. unemployment rate crept back up to a disappointing 9.1% percent for May, according to data just released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Adding to a recent spate of bad economic news, only 54,000 payroll jobs were added. This was the smallest monthly increase since September 2010. Recent economic news has been anything but encouraging. The 1.8% economic growth estimate for the first quarter of this year has shown a drop in factory orders, a six-month low in consumer confidence and falling housing prices. "Sadly, expectations for future business growth and employment continue to deteriorate," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Americans who were hoping for better days ahead are instead bracing for declining income and higher prices.""Winston Churchill once said 'the United States invariably does the right thing, after having exhausted every other alternative.' Well, President Obama has tried just about every form of Keynesian economics – fiscal stimulus, easy money, large budget deficits – but has failed to revive economic growth," added JEC Vice Chairman Brady. "It's time for the President to do the right thing and join House Republicans in implementing sound economic policies."Curbing excessive federal spending, reforming unsustainable entitlements, implementing pro-growth tax and regulatory policies, stabilizing the value of the U.S. dollar and reducing federal debt are the right steps to putting our financial house in order and restore fiscal sanity to our flailing economy. "Instead of more stimulus, more debt, more regulations and yes, more taxes, the President needs to take a cue from the Reagan recovery and get Washington out of the way of our job creators," concluded Brady.During the first 7 quarters of the Reagan Recovery, real economic growth averaged 7.1% as opposed to President Obama's 2.8%. Over 6.5 million jobs were added in the first 22 months of the Reagan recovery, over 12 times the number of new jobs since the most recent recession officially ended. The unemployment rate also dropped by 3.5 percentage points during the first 22 months of the Reagan recovery.
06.03.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement today after voting in favor of a resolution opposing deployment of American ground troops in Libya, share: f t The President owes the American people some serious answers on Libya Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement today after voting in favor of a resolution opposing deployment of American ground troops in Libya, and requiring President Obama to report to Congress within 14 days on the activities of the U.S. Armed Forces in Libya, including justification for why the President did not seek Congressional authorization for the use of force in Libya, the cost of U.S. involvement in Libya, and how and when U.S. and NATO activities in Libya will end. "The President has failed to explain to Congress and the American people the reason for U.S. involvement in Libya, nor has he provided a clear timetable on how long that involvement will last. This is unacceptable. It’s high time the President answered the American people. Over two months have passed since the U.S. joined NATO allies in carrying out air strikes in Libya – and there are more questions than ever. Ordering military action is Congress' most solemn duty and the American people are asking for answers."
06.02.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following in response to Moody's statement: "It share: f t House Economic Leader says Washington must cut spending and debt Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following in response to Moody's statement: "It is no idle threat that Americans faces a credit rating downgrade if the President and Congress don't act quickly to get our country's fiscal house in order. "According to Moody's, the right path forward includes 'meaningful progress toward substantial and credible long-term deficit reduction.' As a recent Joint Economic Committee Study points out, reducing government spending and debt grows economies. As we've seen in recent years, deficit spending and quantitative easing holds back economic growth."
05.31.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), today voted against H.R. 1954, "To Implement the President's Request to Increase the Statutory Limit on the share: f t No Increase in Debt Ceiling without Controls on Spending, says Brady Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), today voted against H.R. 1954, “To Implement the President's Request to Increase the Statutory Limit on the Public Debt”. The bill - which failed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives by a vote of 97 to 318 - would have increased America’s ability to borrow from $14.294 trillion to $16.7 trillion with no spending cuts or limits on future federal spending. Congressman Brady released the following statement following his vote against the measure.“Mister President, it should be clear now that Republicans will not grant you an unconditional increase in America’s debt. Any increase in the debt limit must be accompanied by even larger cuts in spending and limits on future spending. And for those of us still concerned about the economy, the clearest signal we can send anxious consumers and America’s job creators is that Congress is going to put America’s financial house back in order.”Congressman Kevin Brady is a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee serves as the top Republican in Congress on the Joint Economic Committee.
05.27.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-8) today released the below statement following passage by Congress extending three key provisions in the PATRIOT share: f t Key PATRIOT Act provisions critical to keeping Americans safe, says Brady Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-8) today released the below statement following passage by Congress extending three key provisions in the PATRIOT Act until 2015: “Terrorists, in their determination to attack the United States, are using every available technological tool as well as developing new ones”, said Brady. “We need to make sure our intelligence community has every constitutional tool available to root out and disrupt these plots before they kill innocent American lives.”“I never again want to witness the devastation and terror of 9-11. Keeping American families and our nation safe is my highest constitutional duty, so I strongly support this critical legislation.”The PATRIOT Act extension updates United States intelligence capabilities to reflect modern technologies and provides access to tools for our intelligence and law enforcement community to combat terrorist attacks.
05.27.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08), today released the following statement in commemoration of Memorial Day, which is being observed on Monday, share: f t Washington, D.C. — Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-08), today released the following statement in commemoration of Memorial Day, which is being observed on Monday, May 30:“This Monday we honor those men and women who have paid the ultimate sacrifice while serving in the armed forces. We must never forget the sacrifice these brave men and women have made. They died to protect the freedoms that we hold so dear.“Like my father, a Korean War veteran, they leave homes, families, and jobs in a simple, patriotic response, emulating what millions before them did for the good of the nation. Many return home, but some do not. Nothing we can say or do can ever repay the debt we owe them, but we can resolve to honor them by living our lives in such a way as to be worthy of their sacrifices.”Congressman Kevin Brady will honor fallen American service members at the following events this Memorial Day weekend: Memorial Day Service Honoring SGT Calvin HarrisonWHAT: Congressman Kevin Brady to join in honoring SGT Calvin Harrison at the Coldspring American Legion Post 629 Memorial Day ServiceWHEN: Sunday, May 29, 2011 3:00 pmWHERE: San Jacinto County Courthouse 1 State Highway 150 Coldspring, Texas 77331 Willis American Legion Memorial Day CelebrationWHAT: Congressman Kevin Brady to join the Willis American Legion Memorial Day celebrationWHEN: Monday, May 30, 2011 11:00 amWHERE: American Legion Post 13054 E. FM 1097 Road Willis, Texas 77378Walker County Memorial Day CelebrationWHAT: Congressman Kevin Brady to speak at the Walker County Memorial Day celebration being held at H.E.A.R.T.S. Veterans’ MuseumWHEN: Monday, May 30, 2011 7:00 PMWHERE: H.E.A.R.T.S. Veterans’ Museum 463 State Highway 75N Huntsville, TX 77320Congressman Kevin Brady serves on the House Ways & Means and Joint Economic Committees. He serves as the top Republican on the Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee and Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. He served previously at the Beaumont Chamber of Commerce and the South Montgomery County Woodlands Chamber of Commerce.
05.25.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-8) joined House Republican Leaders in announcing The Plan for America's Job Creators. Following the announcement, share: f t Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (TX-8) joined House Republican Leaders in announcing The Plan for America’s Job Creators. Following the announcement, Congressman Brady released the below statement:"I applaud Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader Cantor, Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp and all of our Republican leaders for the jobs agenda released today. In addition to getting our skyrocketing debt under control by cutting spending, this is a key step toward rebuilding our economy and growing jobs here at home. We must reform our tax code and reign in burdensome regulations to ensure U.S. workers have the tools to remain competitive in the global economy through the next century. I am pleased our leaders have included a proposal I have championed to lower tax barriers to provide worldwide American companies the freedom to bring back stranded profits for investment here at home. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to advance this critical legislation."
05.24.2011	Washington, D.C. - Since the end of World War II, Democrats in Congress have generated 90.3% of federal debt held by the public while share: f t New Report Reveals Democrats Generated 90% of Federal Debt Held by the Public since WWII Washington, D.C. - Since the end of World War II, Democrats in Congress have generated 90.3% of federal debt held by the public while Republicans have been responsible for 9.7% during the same period. This debt is owed by America to individuals, firms, foreign governments, and the Federal Reserve.To make an apples-to-apples comparison, the new congressional report by the Joint Economic Committee staff of Vice Chairman Kevin Brady of Texas uses constant 2010 dollars to ensure a dollar of debt incurred in the past is compared equally with a dollar of debt today. Since Congress holds the purse strings, the change in federal debt during each fiscal year was attributed to the party that controlled Congress at the beginning of the fiscal year. When congressional control was split control, one-half of the change was assigned to each party.“As the debt ceiling vote nears, it’s clear Democrats are responsible for running up the lion’s share of America’s dangerous debt," said Brady, the top Republican on the JEC. "Republicans are committed to controlling spending, but the White House and Congressional Democrats can no longer shirk their obligation to help clean up a mess they played an overwhelming role in creating.” Republican control since 1945 produced two periods of federal budget surpluses – fiscal years 1948-1949 and 1998-2001 – for a net reduction in federal debt held by the public of $352 billion in today’s dollars. This includes the four years of GOP control during the George W. Bush presidency.The U.S. debt ceiling limit also includes intra-governmental debt owed mainly to the Social Security and Medicare trust funds. The analysis of that debt shows Democrats are responsible for 74.1% and Republicans 25.9% of the gross federal debt since World War II.The summary and year-by-year breakdowns are attached. A link can be found here. A pdf is available here.
05.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - Conroe, Texas – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) today announced the students from the 8th District of Texas that have share: f t Washington, D.C. - Conroe, Texas – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) today announced the students from the 8th District of Texas that have received military service academy appointments after being nominated by his office.“These young men and women honor us with their desire to serve and have been honored with an appointment to one of America's distinguished military academies", said Brady. “Leadership matters. At a time in our nation's history when strong military leadership is essential, the 8th District can be as proud as I am of these young men and women. Their integrity and character are what our country seeks."Each member of Congress is guaranteed one appointment to each of the service academies - Air Force, West Point, Naval, and Merchant Marine. The 8th Congressional District has a reputation for exceptional candidates and an extremely competitive selection process, and will send 17 young people to the academies this year. This year’s District 8 academy appointments are:Wesley Frazier, Stagecoach (Tomball HS) – Naval AcademyBrittany Medina, Conroe (Conroe HS) – Naval AcademyMatthew Benner, Pinehurst (Tomball HS) – Naval AcademyMichael Taylor, Spring (The John Cooper School) – West Point AcademySavannah Stachowiak, Willis (Willis HS) – West Point AcademyVictoria Maya, Magnolia (Magnolia HS) – New Mexico Military Institute Prep SchoolCorrinne Easter, Montgomery (Montgomery HS) – Air Force AcademyNoel Niccum, Magnolia (Magnolia West HS) – Air Force AcademyEvan Pohler, The Woodlands, (Klein Oak HS) – Air Force AcademyChristophe Mateo, The Woodlands (Oak Ridge HS) – Air Force AcademyCody Womack, Cleveland (Hardin HS) – Air Force AcademyZachary Blanchard, Orange (Little Cypress-Mauriceville HS) – Naval AcademyDavid Williford, Woodville (Woodville HS) – Air Force Academy In order to be offered an appointment to a service academy, candidates must first be nominated by their U.S. Representative or Senator. Students interested in applying should speak with their local high school guidance counselor. Congressman Brady’s office coordinates with local high school students through these counselors. Students can also learn more about the process and download the application at http://www.house.gov/brady/academy_page.html or by contacting Justin Veillon in the Huntsville district office at 936-439-9532
05.17.2011	The Woodlands, TX – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) called on the Senate today to reject a politically-motivated bill to raise taxes share: f t Politically-motivated bill means higher pump prices, less American-made energy The Woodlands, TX – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) called on the Senate today to reject a politically-motivated bill to raise taxes on America’s traditional energy manufacturers. The Senate is expected to vote later today on whether to move forward on S. 940, offered by Democrat Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, that will single out some energy companies operating in the U.S. for higher taxes while foreign competitors and other U.S. manufacturers are left alone. "Raising taxes on American-made energy won't lower fuel prices and will drive American jobs and manufacturing overseas," said Congressman Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee where tax changes must originate. "Traditional oil and gas manufacturing should not be singled out for political flogging just because the energy illiterate in Washington wrongly believe these 9.5 million U.S. jobs are expendable." A report released by Joint Economic Committee staff this week shows consumers pay 56 cents more per gallon of gas due to the declining dollar caused by major injections of money into the economy by the Federal Reserve. "Businesses and families face high prices today due to many factors, including misguided monetary policies that add 56 cents to the price of every gallon of gasoline we pump and the Administration's increased reliance on foreign oil from unstable countries.”
05.16.2011	Washington, D.C. - A weak U.S. dollar due to the Federal Reserve's unprecedented pumping of dollars into the American economy is adding 56 share: f t Americans pay the price of Loose Monetary Policy and Quantitative Easing at the Pump Washington, D.C. - A weak U.S. dollar due to the Federal Reserve's unprecedented pumping of dollars into the American economy is adding 56 and a half cents* to the price of every gallon of gasoline, according to a new study by the Joint Economic Committee Republican staff. Titled The Price of Oil and the Value of the Dollar, the study notes the value of the U.S. dollar has declined 14 percent since the Federal Reserve began its program of quantitative easing in November of 2008. With oil an international commodity that trades in U.S. dollars, the declining value of the dollar has added $17.04* per barrel to the price of Brent Crude oil. Crude oil is the primary input in the process of making gasoline."Americans are paying a steep price at the pump as a result of the weak dollar policies pursued by this Administration and the Federal Reserve", said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the vice chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "There are two lessons here. Rather than pointing fingers at energy manufacturers the President should be looking to his own Treasury and the Fed for answers to the high price of fuel. And this drives home the point that the Federal Reserve should have one mandate, price stability, to prevent inflation and preserve the value of th U.S. dollar."The Federal Reserve has maintained an exceptionally low target Federal Funds rate for an extended period of time. The Fed's program of quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2, the purchase of GSE obligations, mortgage backed securities and Treasury securities have been accompanied by a steady decline in the value of the dollar.*Oil and gasoline price data is from week of May 2, 2011. The Price of Oil and the Value of the Dollar
05.13.2011	Washington, D.C. - Because of his commitment to the elderly, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), has earned the coveted Guardian of Seniors' Rights award from share: f t LAWMAKER LAUDED FOR COMMITMENT TO ELDERLY Washington, D.C. - Because of his commitment to the elderly, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), has earned the coveted Guardian of Seniors' Rights award from the 60 Plus Association, a national non-partisan organization advocating lower taxes and an adherence to the Constitution. Now in its 19th year, 60 Plus presents Guardian awards each Congress to Democrats and Republicans alike based on their 'pro-senior' views and legislative initiatives.60 Plus Chairman Jim Martin said, "we seniors felt we should show our gratitude to dedicated lawmakers like Kevin Brady who show compassion towards the elderly by pledging to 1) always protect Medicare, 2) always protect Social Security, and 3) just as importantly, to vote against wasteful spending of our tax dollars, excessive spending that has our government now borrowing over 40 cents of every dollar it needs to pay its bills. Seniors have to balance their budgets and so should our government.” In an award ceremony in the nation's capital, Martin cited Congressman Brady for "his commitment to look out for America's greatest generation as well as the Congressman's promise to always work to preserve Medicare and Social Security for future retirees, our children and grandchildren. "While both programs are running deficits, seniors are not to blame," Martin emphasized. "After all, we seniors have paid into both all our working lives. We've paid our dues but seniors know why deficits face both Medicare and Social Security. For example, Congress raids the annual surpluses from Social Security to pay for other government programs, leaving nothing but trillions of dollars of IOUs. "Seniors know this. Many of us are well aware of the famous quote from two U. S. Senators, the late Republican, John Heinz of Pennsylvania and the recently retired Democrat, Fritz Hollings of South Carolina who called the annual raid on the Social Security Trust Fund 'embezzlement,' robbing Peter to pay Paul. "Thankfully it’s Members of Congress like Kevin Brady who show caring concern towards our senior population, the very ones who have sacrificed all these years and who now face uncertain retirements due to the impending bankruptcy of their entitlement programs. Representative Brady has also pledged to work hard to halt out of control spending of hard earned tax dollars in order to right our fiscal ship before it sinks from tons of heavy debt. "On behalf of 7.l million seniors that 60 Plus looks to for support, seniors know you’re in our corner. Congressman Brady, you have earned our respect and our appreciation. 60 Plus thanks you."
05.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - House Republicans have passed two more bills in an aggressive push to stop the Obama Administration's assault on Gulf of Mexico share: f t Reversing Drilling Moratorium and Speeding up Permits is Needed to Lower $4 Gas price Washington, D.C. - House Republicans have passed two more bills in an aggressive push to stop the Obama Administration's assault on Gulf of Mexico energy jobs and start producing more American energy now. The latest bills accelerate the permit process for offshore oil and natural gas drilling and put a firm end to the President's drilling moratorium. "I voted to end the Obama Administration's assault on Gulf energy jobs," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. "With gas and milk both costing near $4 a gallon, we need to drill in the Gulf of Mexico to lower prices at the pump and decrease our dependence on foreign sources. Even the administration can't dispute the fact that more American energy production will mean more jobs and revenues for the U.S. Treasury." The President's drawn out moratorium on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico has decimated many Texas energy companies. "The Administration added insult to injury with their decision to reverse course and not proceed with new lease sales in the Gulf and offshore Virginia," said Brady. "Our legislation would lift that ban and move forward with new American energy production we so desperately need to get prices down." Brady, who has no concerns that America's 9.5 million energy workers can meet every safety standard, says they just need the opportunity to compete and that's what this legislation provides. "It's been heartbreaking to watch these jobs and rigs move overseas," added Brady. "I wish the President would have taken the time while he in Texas this week to meet with our energy workers and hear the challenges they face. It would have been eye-opening for him."
05.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today responded to statements made during the hearing held by the House Committee on Ways and share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today responded to statements made during the hearing held by the House Committee on Ways and Means on international tax reform."I think one thing was clear from today’s hearing: Our punitive tax structure makes it hard American companies to compete in a global market," said Brady. "U.S. tax rates are the highest in the world, and our structure is set up to double tax earnings – giving a hand to our competitors at the expense of American business and workers.""We must continue to examine and pursue tax reform, and I applaud Chairman Camp for holding the hearing today," added Brady. "But as we are working toward that goal, we should also look at measures that can provide a down payment and help grow our economy in the short-term. Our legislation, the bi-partisan Freedom to Invest Act, would remove a tax barrier that’s keeping more than $1 trillion in capital earned by American companies stranded overseas."
05.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Jim Matheson (D-UT) were joined today by Representatives Robert Dold (R-IL), Jim Cooper (D-TN), share: f t Brady, Matheson file Freedom to Invest Act of 2011 to let U.S. Companies invest their global profits here at home Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Jim Matheson (D-UT) were joined today by Representatives Robert Dold (R-IL), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Devin Nunes (R-CA) and Jared Polis (D-CO) in filing H.R. 1834: the Freedom to Invest Act of 2011. This legislation would temporarily lower tax barriers to encourage American companies with earnings overseas to bring those dollars back to the U.S. for investment. Currently, more than $1 trillion in capital earned by American companies and workers is stranded overseas because of out-dated tax laws. "Why, in this weak economic recovery, would we not act now to bring back $1 trillion in stranded U.S. profits back to America for investment?" questioned Brady, the vice chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “This is about creating jobs, expanding U.S. businesses and strengthening American companies.” “Putting more private sector capital in the US economy will strengthen recovery efforts and help reduce the federal deficit,” said Matheson. “Let’s do some good now, for American employers and for the U.S. taxpayer, rather than do nothing by maintaining the status quo.” At 35%, the U.S. has one of the developed world's highest corporate tax rates and a complicated tax structure. It is currently to a company's advantage to keep those profits overseas. The Freedom to Invest Act allows the “repatriation” of those profits at a time when private investment and job growth are needed to strengthen the U.S.'s fragile economic recovery. A similar law passed in 2004 resulted in an inflow of $312 billion in private capital that likely would have stayed abroad otherwise. Companies like Adobe, Oracle and Duke Energy used this cash to create or retain jobs, finance new capital spending and pay down domestic debt. "I join today in sponsorship of the Freedom to Invest Act of 2011 because we must put America first and act now to bring an estimated $1.2 trillion American dollars home to create jobs and grow our economy," said Rep. Dold. "My home district in Illinois is the third largest manufacturing district in the country and my top priority in Congress is to put our Nation on a fiscally sustainable path to give American job creators the confidence to grow their businesses, invest and create jobs," continued Dold. "The time is now to throw open our gates and allow a flood of private sector stimulus to pour into our economy." “Our corporate tax rates are the highest in the world and they keep American companies from investing their overseas earnings here in the United States,” said Congressman Cooper. “Over $1 trillion is sitting in foreign banks; money that could be used to create jobs and get our economy back on track. To me, this is a no brainer. “ “Too often the United States unilaterally surrenders, whether it’s in energy policy, trade policy, or tax policy. We can’t afford to tax our companies more than our competitors tax theirs," said Rep. Nunes. "That’s why we need to pass the Freedom to Invest Act of 2011, and lower U.S. taxes on American companies doing business overseas.” "This bipartisan legislation will bring jobs back home. By encouraging companies to reinvest in America, we can make it in America and create jobs for American workers," said Rep. Polis. "While we still need comprehensive tax simplification with a lower overall rate to help U.S. companies keep their competitive edge, this measure will encourage job creation in Colorado and across America."Today's legislation also includes a disincentive designed to discourage American companies from repatriating earnings at the lower rate and reducing their workforce.
05.06.2011	Washington, D.C. - Following on the heels of a disappointing first quarter economic report, the unemployment rate rose back up to 9 percent share: f t Job growth continues, but jump in workers recently laid off and rise in jobless claims are troubling Washington, D.C. - Following on the heels of a disappointing first quarter economic report, the unemployment rate rose back up to 9 percent in April. The nation also experienced a significant rise in the number of workers recently unemployed, which confirms yesterday's report of a large jump in initial unemployment claims. This as the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported 244,000 new payroll jobs in April.“Every month of new job growth is welcome, but this is an exceptionally weak recovery, especially given the unprecedented trillions of dollars thrown at the economy by the White House and Federal Reserve," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. “Usually a small jump in the unemployment rate signals people moving back into the workforce, but the rise in jobless claims and jump in workers recently laid off are not signs of a healthy recovery.” This shows job creators along Main Street as well as the public remain skeptical of President Obama’s ability to revive the sluggish economy – and for good reason, says the Texas Republican.“In the face of such a weak recovery it’s puzzling the White House continues to pursue a failing jobs agenda based on higher taxes, more regulation, more expensive energy prices and dangerous deficits. It doesn’t make sense,’ said Brady.At this point in the Reagan recovery of 1981-82, America had added 6.6 million jobs and the unemployment rate had fallen to 7.3% from 10.8% at the end of the recession. The current unemployment rate is higher than what White House officials had warned would occur if the stimulus was not enacted. The BLS reports 1.8 million fewer payroll jobs today than when President Obama’s stimulus was enacted in February of 2009.
05.05.2011	Washington, DC -- Today, by a vote of 266 to 149, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1230: The Restarting American share: f t White House plan to skip 2011 sale would be first since 1950’s Washington, DC -- Today, by a vote of 266 to 149, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1230: The Restarting American Offshore Leasing Now Act which requires the Obama Administration to conduct oil and natural gas lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Virginia that have been delayed or cancelled by the Administration. The legislation is designed to help increase American oil and natural gas production at a time when the country needs more good-paying jobs, more revenues for the Treasury and less dependence on foreign oil.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says this is no time for Washington to block access to more American-made energy."It's time for the Administration to move forward with lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Virginia as the President once promised,” said Brady. “The moratorium has hurt energy production and jobs. With four dollar a gallon gas and more production moving to other countries its critically important to send a strong signal that the Gulf is open for business again.”
05.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - Watch Video Here share: f t Congressman Kevin Brady Leads Floor Debatefor House Ways & Means Committeeon H.R. 3:No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act Washington, D.C. - Watch Video Here
05.02.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement on the death of Osama Bin Laden:"My congratulations go out to those share: f t Al Qaeda Leader Osama Bin Laden killed by U.S. strike team Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement on the death of Osama Bin Laden:"My congratulations go out to those brave Americans who found this monster and ended his personal reign of terror. The terrorist who ordered the attacks on New York City and Washington, DC can no longer harm anyone. While his death doesn't end the terrorist threat, it does open the door for some much needed closure for thousands of American families who have spent the last decade dealing with the tragic loss of loved ones on September 11, 2001."
04.28.2011	Washington, D.C. - America's economy slowed to a sluggish 1.8 percent annual growth rate in the first quarter of 2011 according to data released share: f t Sluggish First Quarter GDP numbers reflect slow down in private sector spending Washington, D.C. - America’s economy slowed to a sluggish 1.8 percent annual growth rate in the first quarter of 2011 according to data released today by the Bureau of Economic Statistics. The figure fell significantly below the pre-announcement market expectation of 2.6 percent growth and reflects a nearly 60 percent decline from fourth quarter growth in 2010. "Today’s GDP report is a flashing yellow warning light to President Obama and congressional Democrats about their failed economic policies of higher spending, regulation, health care and energy prices," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, vice chairman and top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Washington clearly remains the single biggest obstacle to America’s recovery, and until we restore business confidence and business investment we won't see the job growth Americans deserve."The deceleration in growth compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 reflected a sharp uptick in imports and a slower growth in both personal consumption expenditures and business investment in buildings, equipment, and software.“The sharp drop in private business investment to an anemic annual rate of 1.8 percent is particularly disappointing,” said Representative Brady. “Private sector spending, not government spending, drives growth in payroll employment,” he said. “Reducing government spending now will spur our private job creators to make the kinds of investments that lead to economic growth and jobs for out of work Americans.”
04.18.2011	Conroe - "Very large budget deficits and rising government indebtedness" are cited as reasons for Standard & Poors decision to downgrade the share: f t "America's Dangerous Deficits have come home to roost," says JEC Vice Chairman Conroe - "Very large budget deficits and rising government indebtedness" are cited as reasons for Standard & Poors decision to downgrade the United States economic outlook to negative. "America's dangerous deficits have come home to roost," said Joint Economic Committee Vice Chairman Kevin Brady. "Standard & Poors is comparing our nation's deficits and debts to our AAA peers and finding reason for concern."On Friday, the House passed the Ryan Republican Budget plan which would cut government spending by $6.2 trillion over the next ten years and lower the deficit by over $4 trillion compared with the President's budget. "Today's news from S&P should be a wakeup call for the Senate and the White House," added Brady, a Texas Republican. "President Obama needs to stop ridiculing Rep. Ryan's plan which begins to seriously address our country's long term spending issues and start supporting it as the best way forward."S&P said today their move signals there's at least a one-in-three chance that the United States' long term rating could fall within two years.
04.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady voted for a 2012 federal budget proposed by House Republicans that reverses the federal spending share: f t House Republicans Vote to Control Washington Spending, Grow Economy Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady voted for a 2012 federal budget proposed by House Republicans that reverses the federal spending spree of the past two years and puts America back on a path to financial solvency. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan's budget - which passed the House today - cuts $6.2 trillion in spending over the next decade, shrinks the size of the federal government, keeps taxes low and takes the first concrete steps to preserve the financially shaky Medicare and Medicaid programs."If you've lost hope that America's government will ever live within its means again and are frightened by the massive amount of debt this nation is amassing, the House Republican budget is the change in America's direction you've been waiting for," said Brady, a Republican from Texas. "We face a huge fight to pass it through the Democratically controlled Senate but this is a fight to put America back on a path to financial soundness and prosperity."Brady, who helps lead House conservatives known as the Republican Study Committee, joined with 118 Republicans to support an alternative budget by the RSC that cuts spending more quickly and balances the budget within the decade. "It's tough medicine, no doubt, but it shows the American people just how deeply in debt we are as a nation and how difficult it will be to dig out of it," said Brady, who co-sponsored the conservatives' budget which failed to secure a majority of votes.
04.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the FY2011 spending bill passed the House by a vote of 260-167:"This share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after the FY2011 spending bill passed the House by a vote of 260-167:"This is a simple principle: when given the opportunity to cut spending, cut taxes or protect the life of the unborn I am voting a strong ‘yes’. Given America’s dangerous deficits we can’t miss an opportunity to cut spending. I argued for bigger cuts and different cuts, but I’ll take the billions in savings from this bill - as well as ensuring we pay our troops - and start fighting for over $6 trillion more in cuts to this massive federal budget in the Republican Ryan budget."Shortly after the vote on spending cuts for the remainder of the budget year, Congressman Brady and House Republicans voted again to repeal ObamaCare and to defund Planned Parenthood, sending those bills to the Senate for straight up-or-down votes. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid had been trying to shield his party from direct votes ahead of next year’s election, but the GOP budget agreement forced the public votes on these key issues.Congressman Brady is the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee.
04.12.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, NASA Administrator Charles Bolden confirmed what Houston officials had long feared. Houston, the home of human space flight, has share: f t Brady lauds JSC Achievements, Honors Sacrifices and calls today's decision "tawdry politics" Washington, D.C. - Today, NASA Administrator Charles Bolden confirmed what Houston officials had long feared. Houston, the home of human space flight, has been shunned by President Obama’s administration which has chosen New York, Florida, Washington, DC and California to be the future homes of America's shuttle fleet.“With this White House I always expect the worst and am rarely disappointed,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). “What this decision won’t change is the legacy of the men and women of Johnson Space Center who have changed the face of manned space flight forever. Their innovation, dedication -- and even the loss of loved ones in pursuit of their mission -- will live far beyond the tawdry politics of today.”
04.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - As Americans celebrate Tax Freedom Day on April 12th, it's a subdued celebration. Most Americans have worked since New Year's share: f t Washington Doesn't have a Revenue Problem, it has a Spending Problem Washington, D.C. - As Americans celebrate Tax Freedom Day on April 12th, it's a subdued celebration. Most Americans have worked since New Year's Day until now just to pay their taxes at the federal, state and local level and most will pay more in taxes this year than they will on their housing, food and clothing combined. "A $14 trillion plus debt is a tax freedom killer," lamented U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "Washington doesn't have a revenue problem, it has a spending problem and we work far too long for Uncle Sam until we start working for our families and our dreams." If the government collected enough taxes this year just to pay for all its spending this year, the Tax Foundation estimates Tax Freedom Day would fall much later and Brady says if Washington raised taxes instead of cutting spending to address our dangerous debts and deficits, "You would have to double the four months Americans have already worked before they saw Tax Freedom Day. That's crazy." Tax Freedom Day for the entire country is Tuesday, April 12th, but Texas Tax Freedom day actually arrived last week. "Thankfully, we live in a state that understands you can't tax your way back to prosperity," added Brady.
04.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - Statement of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) on the agreement by Congressional leaders and the White House to cut $38.5 share: f t Debate quickly shifts from billions of cuts to trillions in House GOP Budget Washington, D.C. - Statement of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) on the agreement by Congressional leaders and the White House to cut $38.5 billion from the last half of this budget year, pay the troops, end taxpayer funding for abortions in the District of Columbia and force up-or-down votes in the Senate on repealing ObamaCare and defunding Planned Parenthood.The cuts reportedly translate into over $400 billion in spending cuts over the next ten years. "As a conservative I’m always hungry for more spending cuts. This is a start - more than $400 billion over the next decade and the end to taxpayer funded abortions in D.C. - but we need to do much more.The hard truth is that until the Senate and White House is replaced we’re forced to fight and claw for every dollar of cuts, then come right back to fight and claw for more. This time we cut billions but next week we cut trillions from the bloated federal government as we fight to pass the House Republican budget developed by Paul Ryan. This is the much bigger battle and will shape the size and role of government for a generation. We can't give up. With these dangerous deficits we have to keep fighting for our children's future."
04.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - For the second time in a month, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady has been applauded by one of the nation's largest share: f t "2010 Taxpayers' Friend Award" is for consistently voting to reduce the burden on America’s taxpayers Washington, D.C. - For the second time in a month, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady has been applauded by one of the nation’s largest tax watchdog groups for his fight to reduce Washington spending. The National Taxpayers Union has awarded him the "2010 Taxpayers' Friend Award"."When taxpayers of the eighth district needed an ally they could count on to fight for them day in and day out in Congress, Kevin Brady was there," said NTU Executive Vice President Pete Sepp. "On issue after issue in 2010, from health care to taxes to controlling federal spending, Congressman Brady was a tireless advocate for limited government. Our members in the eighth district look forward to his leadership on fiscal policy in 2011."NTU also recently applauded Brady as having the fifth largest spending cut agenda in Congress."I thank NTU for their hard work on behalf of overburdened taxpayers and I will continue to fight for a smaller, disciplined, more efficient federal government," said Brady, who is one of just 79 members of Congress to receive an "A" for his voting record on issues of importance to taxpayers. "Shrinking the size of this bloated government is the best way to get a handle on these dangerous debts and deficits and put America back on the path to economic prosperity."Brady is the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
04.05.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady today applauded the Senate for overwhelmingly approving a House bill that repeals the so-called 1099 provision share: f t Strong Bi-Partisan Support to Cut $17 Billion Small Business Paperwork Provision Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady today applauded the Senate for overwhelmingly approving a House bill that repeals the so-called 1099 provision which would have forced businesses of all sizes to file reams of new paperwork with the Internal Revenue Service at great expense in employee time and resources.The repeal now goes to the President’s desk for his signature. Small business groups from around the nation have fought vigorously for Congress to repeal the costly mandate."This paperwork nightmare is one of many bad parts of ObamaCare that small businesses desperately need repealed,” said Brady. “The new IRS reporting requirements weren't going to make any American healthier.”Brady added, “But the fight is far from over. There are other provisions that will drive up health care costs for small businesses and force their workers into the government run plans. Those mandates need to be repealed next and replaced with common-sense reforms that actually lower health care costs and make them more affordable.” Today's Senate vote was 87 to 12 to repeal the provision. The House passed the bill with 314 votes, including 76 Democrats, early last month.
04.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Employment number for March show payroll employment gains of 216,000 and an unemployment rate of 8.8%. "Given how weak share: f t Business investment, not more government spending, key to job growth, says Republican JEC leader Washington, D.C. – Employment number for March show payroll employment gains of 216,000 and an unemployment rate of 8.8%.“Given how weak this recovery has been, even moderate job growth is welcome,” says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “But looking at the bigger picture, 21 months after the recession ended we are still down more than 7.2 million jobs. That’s not acceptable by any standard.”A key to sustainable economic growth is the size of the U.S. labor force which is the lowest since the mid 1980’s, says Brady. That makes the unemployment rate look more attractive for the wrong reasons, he says.“There’s no reason to celebrate a lower unemployment rate caused by more Americans leaving the workforce and fewer entering it. A small workforce means millions of discouraged workers, lower output in the future and a weak recovery. Those are unhealthy signs,” Brady points out. The solution, he says, is to lower barriers to business investment which creates jobs along Main Street. “Rather than spending more, Congress can help by doing less – less deficit spending, less taxes and less extreme regulations that drive up costs for businesses of all sizes.”
03.31.2011	Washington, D.C. - A bipartisan group of lawmakers joined Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Mike Ross (D-Ark) in reintroducing legislation to permanently repeal share: f t Permanent Repeal Would Provide Certainty, Hope for Families Washington, D.C. - A bipartisan group of lawmakers joined Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Mike Ross (D-Ark) in reintroducing legislation to permanently repeal the estate, or “death” tax, including Representatives Kristi Noem (R-SD), Dan Boren (D-OK), and Devin Nunes (R-CA).Family owned small businesses, farms and ranches are the most vulnerable targets of this double tax because the law doesn't differentiate between people and their businesses. When the full value of a business' assets, such as equipment and property, are included in someone's estate, many are forced to sell needed assets just to write a check to the Internal Revenue Service.“Can you imagine working your whole life to build up a nest egg or family business – only to see Uncle Sam swoop in to take more than half of it upon your death?” asked Congressman Brady. “The Death Tax is still the #1 reason family farms and businesses in America aren’t passed down to the next generation. It’s the wrong tax at the wrong time and hurts the wrong people.” "We pay taxes all our lives, so it just doesn’t make sense to be taxed again when we die," said Ross. "I’ve heard from farmers and small business owners all over Arkansas who are concerned that when they die, their loved ones won’t be able to afford the estate taxes in order to keep the family farm or business in their family. The death tax is unfair and punishes those Americans who work hard all their lives so they can pass their family business down to the next generation when they die. I have long supported the repeal of the death tax and I’m proud to join this bipartisan effort to finally and fully repeal the death tax once and for all." "The death tax is unfair and hurts family farms, ranches and small businesses at the worst possible time," said Noem. "When my own dad died, our family was forced to make the choice to either sell land or take out a loan to pay the tax. We took out the loan, but that lesson taught me a lot about the reach of government. Death simply should not be a taxable event."“It is an honor to join my colleagues on this bipartisan legislation to permanently repeal the estate tax," said Boren. "Estate taxes are especially harmful to farmers, ranchers, and other small businesses because these operations tend to be capital-intensive with a high concentration of assets tied up in land, buildings, and equipment. I look forward to working on this important legislation to bury the death tax for good.”“The estate tax is one of the worst forms of double taxation in the United States," said Nunes. "Money that has already been taxed when a person is alive is taxed yet again at death. There is no reason why American families should have to answer a knock on the door by the IRS during a time of sorrow. The death tax needs to be repealed.”Small business associations, farm, ranch and seniors groups support ending this outdated, unfair and onerous tax that the U.S. Department of Agriculture confirmed is one of the leading causes of the breakup of multigenerational farms and ranches. “The estate tax imposes a major cost on small businesses, not only when it is levied, but also in the expensive estate planning which businesses must undertake to prepare for the tax,” said Susan Eckerly, Senior Vice President for Public Policy at the National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB). “Small businesses around the country thank Reps. Brady, Ross, Nunes, Boren, and Noem for introducing this important bill. Full repeal of the estate tax will provide all small businesses the capital they need to grow and create jobs.”“Estate taxes continue to be a problem for our nation’s farm and ranch families who are crippled when the tax exceeds their operations’ cash and liquid assets,” said American Farm Bureau Federation President Bob Stallman, a rice and cattle producer from Columbus, Texas. “Permanent estate tax legislation is needed to relieve farmers and ranchers from the financial drain of estate tax planning and prevent the damage caused to farms and ranches when a family member dies.”“For four generations and more than 100 years, my family has raised cattle on the same land in Montana. Like farmers and ranchers across this country, it is my hope to pass our family’s land on to my kids and grandkids," said National Cattlemen's Beef Association President Bill Donald. "But the one thing that could stop that from happening is the death tax. Cattlemen across the country join me in thanking Congressman Brady for introducing this commonsense legislation and we will work with him to ensure it becomes the law of the land.”“Repeal of the Federal Estate Tax has long been a goal of the Texas Farm Bureau,” said Texas Farm Bureau President Kenneth Dierschke. “We applaud the efforts of Congressman Brady. The Death Tax is a double dip tax, taking a significant portion out of a person’s estate when he or she dies despite the fact that those assets have already been taxed.”"It's immoral that seniors should spend their golden years worrying about Uncle Sam -- who is not a blood relative -- being the first claimant in line," said James L. Martin, Chairman of the 60 Plus Association. "It's time to bury the death tax and stop forcing grieving families to sell off what has already been taxed."
03.24.2011	Houston - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House share: f t While Texas makes progress, the EPA still seeks to impose a global warming agenda that Congress has rejected Houston - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, joined the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Power's field hearing in Houston today.During his opening statement at the hearing, Brady spoke out about the economic effects of the EPA's planned regulation of greenhouse gas and other Clean Air Act rules are having on Texas "we ought to be real clear; this isn’t a choice between clean air and jobs. Texas is achieving both. The question here is does Washington have the power to seize the states permitting authority to impose -- among other mandates -- a global warming agenda that Congress has rejected?" Congressman Brady also questioned Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality Chairman Brian Shaw and Texas Agricultural Commissioner Todd Staples about their interactions with the EPA.
03.23.2011	Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady had one of the top five most ambitious federal spending cut agendas of the 111th Congress. share: f t If Brady agenda followed, NTUF says "the federal budget deficit would likely be significantly lower" Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady had one of the top five most ambitious federal spending cut agendas of the 111th Congress. According to the National Taxpayers Union Foundation just released BillTally, Brady's 14 spending cut bills in the 111th Congress had a total savings value of $282.6 billion."While a number of House Members had legislative agendas to reduce, rather than raise, spending in the 111th Congress, fewer still proposed to cut the budget by more than $200 billion," said Demian Brady, Senior Policy Analyst for the National Taxpayers Union Foundation. "If all lawmakers had sponsored agendas similar in savings to that of Congressman Kevin Brady’s, the federal budget deficit would likely be significantly lower than it is today.""Our deficits and debt are so dangerous, we have to keep cutting every day," said the Congressman, whose bills repealed and defunded ObamaCare, reformed welfare and cut non-defense discretionary spending, including public broadcasting and subsidies."The truth of the matter is we could double everyone's taxes in America and still run a deficit," added Congressman Brady who recently released a report detailing how to grow the economy through spending and debt reduction. "We have to make tough choices now. If we are to get our country back onto a fiscally responsible path, nothing can be off the table."The NTUF BillTally includes 1,654 U.S. House of Representative bills valued at or above $1 million. Congressman Brady is the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
03.22.2011	Conroe - One year and a blizzard of new bureaucracy later, little the President promised the public about his massive national health share: f t Now one year old, President's plan looks worse with higher costs & prices; waivers abound Conroe - One year and a blizzard of new bureaucracy later, little the President promised the public about his massive national health care plan has materialized.The Congressional Budget Office confirmed the law will cost half a trillion dollars more than represented. The President's own health care secretary admitted the White House double-counted savings in the bill to mask its deficits and Medicare's chief actuary said at least 7 million seniors will lose their Medicare Advantage plans. Most Americans face higher health care costs, many businesses are hinting they may be forced to drop health care coverage for their workers, fewer doctors are seeing Medicare patients and over 1,000 health plan sponsors -- such as unions -- that cover over 2 million Americans have received ObamaCare waivers because this poorly-written law is proving unworkable in practice.Especially embarrassing are published reports that only three percent of Americans with pre-existing illnesses have been helped by the bill - a key selling point by congressional Democrats and the President. The Congressional Budget Office also estimates ObamaCare will result in the loss of more than 800,000 jobs over the next 10 years."Conceived in a backroom and rushed to a vote, this is an ugly bill that's that's only grown uglier in the light of day," said Texas Republican Congressman Kevin Brady, whose chart unveiled the law's bewildering complexity. "Nearly every week the American public learns of another ObamaCare promise that won't be met. The good news is that it's not too late to start over with common sense health care reforms that actually lower costs for families and make it more affordable for businesses to offer to their workers."Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the top Republican in Congress on the Joint Economic Committee, has co-sponsored legislation to repeal and replace the new national health care law. He is leading legislation to save states from incurring costs to implement the bill until the U.S. Supreme Court has determined if the new individual health care mandate is constitutional. Federal courts have split over the constitutionality of the measure and governors of both parties are protesting the high costs of complying with all the federal mandates.
03.22.2011	Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady announced today that Orange County native Justin Veillon has been promoted to Regional Field Representative. The share: f t Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady announced today that Orange County native Justin Veillon has been promoted to Regional Field Representative. The former eastern district field representative will helm Congressman Brady’s Huntsville Office, oversee all field operations in the 11-county Congressional District and continue to handle the U.S. Military Academy Nominations process and constituent outreach programs. “Justin is a dedicated worker who daily proves his commitment to providing top notch constituent service," said Brady. "He is a huge asset to our district and has earned this promotion."Justin, the son of Rick and Debbie Veillon of Orange, joined Congressman Brady’s staff in July 2009. He is a graduate of Little Cypress Mauriceville High School and Sam Houston State University."As we move forward with our field operations for the Eighth District, I am confident that Justin will continue to make his family and home community of Orange proud," added Brady. Congressman Brady's Orange office will continue to be staffed full time by caseworker Vita Swarers.
03.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Amid warnings of a government shutdown and Democratic cries of ‘draconian' budget cuts, Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives share: f t Warn White House and Senate Democrats “Stop stalling” Washington, D.C. - Amid warnings of a government shutdown and Democratic cries of ‘draconian’ budget cuts, Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives passed a three-week extension of funding for the federal government, slicing another $6 billion in wasteful spending. The savings continue the GOP march toward their pledge to cut spending by $100 billion from the president’s budget this year.“I never miss the opportunity to cut wasteful Washington spending, and we’re making progress,” said Texas Republican Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the powerful Ways & Means Committee. “Now that the House has passed two temporary extensions and a separate bill to repeal bad policies and reduce spending for the balance of the year, it’s time to conclude this unfinished business. President Obama and Congressional Democrats are on notice to stop stalling -- the time for temporary measures is over.”Last year House Democrats avoided a budget battle by simply not passing – or even proposing – a budget. Lawmakers in Washington are finishing the spending outline for this year before turning to a new budget and a spring vote on the debt ceiling.“For Republicans this is more than just numbers. Repealing the bad policies of the past session, from ObamaCare to defunding Planned Parenthood and stopping EPA encroachment on greenhouse gasses – all of these are priorities in measures we’ve already passed through the House and are also included in the overall spending measure. Let’s get these done.”
03.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy and Chief Deputy Whip Peter Roskam joined Kevin Brady, the share: f t Tackling deficits and debt in America now can boost the economy and create jobs Washington, D.C. - Today, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy and Chief Deputy Whip Peter Roskam joined Kevin Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee for the release of new economic data that proves government spending cuts help grow economies.The new report, "Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy," details how many of the U.S.'s top competitors in the global marketplace reduced their debt ratios and grew their economies both in the short and long terms."In this analysis of mainstream economic studies, America's competitors prove that nations can boost their economies in the short term by spending less and reducing their debt", said Brady. “We know that is true in America as well. For most of the last 40 years when federal spending rose, jobs along Main Street shrank. Private business investment creates private sector jobs. Republicans in Congress are determined to remove barriers to new jobs by tackling America's dangerous budget deficits and removing the uncertainty that deters businesses from making those new investments."Brady noted the White House has fallen 7.2 million jobs short of their jobs promises, which included a 6.9% unemployment rate by now. Leader Eric Cantor stated, "Since the start of this Congress, House Republicans have been committed to a two-track agenda of cutting spending so that we can grow the economy and get people back to work. The report released today by the House Joint Economic Committee Republicans details that addressing our fiscal situation and cutting spending will lead to long-term economic growth and job creation. To put it simply: less government spending means more private sector jobs. I thank Vice Chairman Kevin Brady and his Committee members for their hard work on this important effort. I hope that Democrats will join us in efforts to cut spending and realize that we must get our fiscal house in order so that the economy can grow."Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy noted, “Today's report is a clear indication we must take the bold steps and act now to reduce spending levels and avoid further destabilizing our economy. Democrats must step up and join us as we work to protect the American Dream for our future generations and get people back to work.""When you cut spending growth follows for two reasons," added Brady. "Businesses who no longer expect the government to levy large tax increases in the future to pay for excessive spending step up their investment and the unemployment rate goes down. And secondly, families who have higher income expectations gain confidence to make major purchases for homes and autos."President Obama and congressional Democrats have emphasized the risk of reducing now America's deficits and debt. But they ignore the risk of delay. As this study shows, ample real-life data prove there are significant economic growth and job creation benefits that accrue from reducing spending and reforming entitlement programs to restore their sustainability for future generations. For America's economic future it's time for a new path forward. To grow our economy it's time for Washington to spend less and owe less as a nation.• Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy - Statement of Representative Kevin Brady March 15 2011• Spend Less, Owe Less, Grow the Economy with Executive Summary
03.09.2011	Washington, D.C. - A bi-partisan group of U.S. House lawmakers has launched a major effort to spur job creation and innovation by modernizing share: f t Bi-Partisan “American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011” Modernizes R & D Tax Credit; Makes Permanent Washington, D.C. - A bi-partisan group of U.S. House lawmakers has launched a major effort to spur job creation and innovation by modernizing and making permanent the Research and Development tax credit."Innovation drives America’s future,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and the author of The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011. “To keep from falling behind our global competitors and to make sure America is the first choice for R & D jobs we need to modernize the tax credit, strengthen it to encourage companies to make greater investment in research and jobs and make the credit permanent so businesses have the confidence to make long-term investment decisions here in the United States.”Other leaders of the effort are Democratic representatives John Larson of Connecticut, Anna Eshoo of California and Doris Matsui of California. Joining Brady are Republican sponsors Erik Paulsen of Minnesota and Michael McCaul of Texas. "America is the world’s leading innovator – developing life-saving technologies, state-of-the art computer systems, and breakthrough manufacturing products – but we’re losing ground to competitors around the world," said Rep. Larson. "It’s time we get back on the playing field by modernizing the R&D tax credit and keeping American jobs and innovation here at home." “Research and development is imperative to our country’s competitiveness in the global marketplace,” added Rep. Paulsen. “We need a tax code that spurs innovation and promotes sustainable job growth in industries like medical technology, which provide thousands of high-paying jobs in Minnesota. These companies often face high start up costs and this credit will help them create the next life-saving technology. We must make the R & D credit permanent and encourage businesses to continue the pursuit of new ideas.” “The R&D tax credit is a proven policy which encourages businesses to invest in new technologies that create jobs and shape tomorrow’s economy. For decades it has been essential for out-innovating and out-competing the rest of the world, but now other countries have caught up,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will modernize the tax credit—expanding it, making it permanent and keeping the U.S. as a global leader.” The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 would simplify and strengthen the R & D tax credit by increasing the “alternative simplified credit” from 14% to 20% and making it permanent, while providing a one-year bridge for those companies that still use the “traditional credit” to December 31, 2012. American business leaders offered strong support for the legislation. "UTC commends Representatives Brady, Larson, Paulsen, and Eshoo on the introduction of The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011," said Dr. J. Michael McQuade, Senior Vice-President, Science and Technology, United Technologies Corporation. "The United Technologies family of companies demonstrates every day how investments in research and innovation enable us to do more with less. From elevators to jet engines to building systems, UTC’s research investments have led to innovations that reduce emissions, conserve energy, eliminate hazardous waste and help make modern life possible. By modernizing, enhancing and making permanent the R&D simplified credit, The American Research & Competitiveness Act of 2011 promotes job growth and thriving communities in the U.S."“America’s economy is fueled by investments in research and development, and our national competitiveness will be strengthened by enhancing and making the tax credit permanent,” said Larry Irving, Vice President, Global Government Affairs of Hewlett-Packard. “We commend Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Representative John Larson (D-CT) for introducing The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 and we will work closely with members of Congress to support the passage of this important measure.”"Investment in R&D is critical for our nation's economic competitiveness and IBM applauds Representatives Brady and Larson in their effort to enhance and make permanent the alternative simplified Research and Development tax credit," said Christopher Padilla, Vice President, IBM Governmental Programs. "Throughout its 100 year history, IBM has demonstrated a strong commitment to funding scientific research, which has paved the way for societal breakthroughs such as missions to the moon, helping to map the humane genome and most recently, a computing system named Watson that represents a new frontier of information science through its ability to understand natural language. The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 will help advance the next wave of innovations that will have positive implications for our society and help to further economic vitality for the United States." "R&D is the critical lifeblood of our industry," said Doug Cronin, Vice President of Corporate Tax at Boston Scientific. "The R&D tax credit enables American companies like Boston Scientific to develop breakthrough treatments for patients while also creating quality jobs that fuel economic growth. Innovation in America is the key to rebuilding our economy and strong investment in R &D is a vital component of that success. I commend Rep. Brady and the sponsors for their leadership by introducing this bill."When it comes to jobs, the U.S. simply can't afford to be ranked 24th out of 38 countries in R&D incentives or to continue on the path of temporary extensions. A permanent plan would provide certainty for companies to make those long-term investments. Other countries are moving ahead of the U.S. by offering stronger incentives to attract research and development and the good-paying jobs that go with it to their markets. "It is time we get back in the game," added Brady. "If we modernize the U.S. R&D tax credit, we keep American jobs and innovation here at home. It's really as simple as that."
03.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - America's unemployment rate ticked down to 8.9% in February according to numbers released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. share: f t "There are still fewer payroll jobs today than when the recession officially ended," said Brady Washington, D.C. - America’s unemployment rate ticked down to 8.9% in February according to numbers released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Republican Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, is encouraged by the new jobs numbers but warned they need to improve substantially to get the 13.7 million Americans without jobs back to work. "While I'm pleased to see 192,000 new payroll jobs, America is still saddled with fewer payroll jobs today than when the recession officially ended 20 months ago," said Brady. "We consistently need at least 250,000 new jobs a month if the country hopes to make significant inroads in our unemployment numbers.”“Business investment is the key to job growth which is why Republicans in Congress are focused on removing barriers to growth including new Washington regulations, mandates and the potential of higher taxes due to these dangerous deficits.”While the number of layoffs has declined, the nation is not experiencing the necessary improvement in job openings for college graduates or the long term unemployed trying to reenter the job market.The number of long term unemployed remains high at 6 million with marginal improvements over the last several months.
03.03.2011	Washington, D.C. - Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted 314 to 112 to remove a controversial ObamaCare paperwork mandate that has outraged share: f t Also saves $20 billion by reducing fraud in health care taxpayer subsidies Washington, D.C. - Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted 314 to 112 to remove a controversial ObamaCare paperwork mandate that has outraged America’s small businesses. The bill also saves $20 billion by recapturing federal health care tax subsidies that erroneously go to individuals who don’t qualify for them.“We are cleaning up the serious messes Democrats made in their new health care law – a massive bill that few lawmakers in Congress actually read before they passed it,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “We also prevent the loss of billions of tax dollars simply by requiring individuals with higher earnings to pay back the taxpayer subsidies they don’t actually qualify for. With these dangerous deficits we simply can’t afford fraud or waste.”H.R. 4 repeals the mandate on businesses that they report to the IRS all purchases of goods and services that exceed $600 a year, a paperwork burden that struggling small businesses have voiced strong opposition to. It does the same for rental property owners as well.The bill is supported by numerous small business organizations including the National Federation of Independent Business. In a recent survey the NFIB determined that tax reporting paperwork is the most expensive burden the government places on small businesses. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce wrote Congress calling the law's new data collection and reporting requirements "onerous" and warning these mandates would “dramatically increase accounting costs, expose businesses to costly and unjustified audits by the IRS, and subject more small businesses to the challenges of electronic filing.”
03.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today will take up House Joint Resolution 44 which continues the operation of the federal share: f t House Economic Leader's First Priority: removing barriers to job growth and tackling dangerous deficits Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives today will take up House Joint Resolution 44 which continues the operation of the federal government for two weeks while cutting unnecessary spending by $4 billion over that period.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the vice chairman designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says there must be savings in any short term legislation to keep the federal government running."Our first priority is removing barriers to job growth, so tackling these dangerous deficits is critical to our recovery."Surely Senate Democrats won’t shut down the federal government over what amounts to savings of one-thousandth of the federal budget. Do they really believe that Washington wastes no money?"As House Republicans fight for $100 billion in savings from this year's budget, the short-term extension makes clear that we are serious about getting America’s financial house in order and getting our economy back on track.”
03.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - The top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee today challenged the latest assertion by Washington Democrats that cutting wasteful government share: f t GOP Economic Leader says Zandi Forecasts “Wildly Wrong” Washington, D.C. - The top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee today challenged the latest assertion by Washington Democrats that cutting wasteful government spending will harm the economic recovery. House and Senate Democrats have rushed to embrace claims by Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Analytics, that Republican savings of $100 billion from this year’s federal budget would result in significant job losses. “Mark Zandi was wildly wrong about the jobs the stimulus would create. Now he’s using those same outdated economic models to arrive at the latest flawed estimate,” said Brady, the vice chairman designate of the Joint Economic Committee. “Jobs depend upon business investment and these dangerous deficits crowd that out. Until Congress removes these barriers to job growth and proves it is serious about tackling these dangerous deficits, our recovery will continue to lag.” Brady notes that Zandi claimed President Obama’s $821 billion stimulus package would create four million jobs by the end of 2010. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, total payroll jobs actually fell by 3.3 million during that time period. Unemployment rose to 9.4% from 7.8% as well. “You would think Democrats had learned by now – if government spending were the answer, America’s recovery would be the envy of the world. Painfully, it’s not,” said Brady. The Texas Republican also reminds congressional Democrats who continue to cite the large budget surpluses and job growth of the Clinton years that spending discipline imposed by the GOP-controlled Congress of those years led to increased economic growth. Federal spending averaged 19.2% of GDP during the Clinton years. By contrast, the Obama government has ballooned to 24.7% and is growing larger. “Bigger government crowds out business investment, which is the surest generator of jobs," added Brady. "The threat of higher taxes in the future along with higher inflation and higher interest rates create a drag on America’s job creators.” Brady is not alone in his criticism of Zandi and Democratic claims. . “Wrong in the past and is highly likely to be wrong again” is how one of America’s top economists, John B. Taylor of Stanford University’s Hoover Institute, debunked Zandi and Goldman Sachs’ recent estimates of job losses. Taylor pointed out that basic economic models "show that a credible plan to reduce gradually the deficit will increase economic growth and reduce unemployment by removing uncertainty and lowering the chances of large tax increases in the future.”
03.01.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee, made the following statement today in share: f t We can't win if we can't compete, says Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee Chair Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee, made the following statement today in support of the letter 67 House freshmen Members sent to the President encouraging passage of the three pending trade agreements: "Jobs matter for America and Republican freshmen have made it clear they understand the need to find new customers for American companies, farmers and workers. Opening up dynamic new markets for American goods and services must be a priority for our economic recovery. As this letter makes clear, America cannot afford further delays in enacting trade agreements. American businesses can't win if they aren't allowed to compete for new customers.”
02.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - After a long and open debate, early this morning the House of Representatives passed a spending plan that begins the share: f t House Economic Leader calls it a "down payment towards fiscal health" Washington, D.C. - After a long and open debate, early this morning the House of Representatives passed a spending plan that begins the process of getting the country on a more responsible fiscal path. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee issued the following statement:"It is just a down payment towards getting our government back to fiscal health, but early this morning House Republicans kept their pledge. After an invigorating and historic effort that all members of the People's House were able to participate in, we cut $100 Billion from this year's spending. The healthy debate that's been missing for the last four years yielded results for the American people. We cut bloated federal spending and gave our economy more of what it needs to bounce back -- and less of what it doesn't."
02.17.2011	Washington, D.C. - Washington, DC -- President Obama's Stimulus celebrates a dubious two-year anniversary today, but the question bears asking "What did the share: f t 2.2 million private sector payroll jobs lost and more debt, says House Economic Leader Washington, D.C. - Washington, DC -- President Obama's Stimulus celebrates a dubious two-year anniversary today, but the question bears asking "What did the American people get from two years of Stimulus?" U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, says the answer is more debt and fewer jobs."Since the Stimulus Plan was signed into law, our economy has lost 2.2 million private sector payroll jobs. Instead of creating or saving millions of jobs, we have had an unemployment rate at or above 9% for 21 months and our national debt is over $14 trillion and climbing. While Washington Democrats were on a spending spree, our job creators struggled under the weight of new taxes and regulations. The American economy wants to bounce back and it will once we remove the paralyzing uncertainty of more Washington spending and interference."
02.15.2011	Washington, D.C. - As its first move of the 112th Congress, the Congressional Services Caucus released a new study by the U.S. Coalition of share: f t More than 8 in 10 U.S. jobs are service related, says Services Caucus Co-Chair Kevin Brady Washington, D.C. - As its first move of the 112th Congress, the Congressional Services Caucus released a new study by the U.S. Coalition of Services Industries demonstrating the growing importance of services jobs to the U.S. economy. Based on recent data from the Census Bureau, the study reports that 90 million Americans were employed in private services – from insurance to medical to financial – paying an average salary of nearly $59,000.Further highlighting the growing importance of the service sector, these jobs comprise 83 percent of the U.S. workforce. “America is the largest and most competitive exporter of services in the world – maintaining a service trade surplus of $164 billion last year,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a founding co-chair of the bipartisan services caucus. “This study is more than just a powerful reminder that services jobs can help lead America out of its economic downturn, it’s a clarion call for the White House and Congress to commit to opening opportunities to “sell American” services throughout the world because we are the best in the world at it.”Brady says the three pending trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea would boost American sales by opening market access to millions of customers for our farmers, manufacturers, and service workers.Highlights from the study include:The services sector employees nearly 260,000 Americans in the 8th district of Texas – accounting for 74 percent of total employment.The majority of the workforce in every Congressional District is employed in services.Services employment accounts for over 8 out of every 10 jobs in the U.S. workforce.90 million Americans were employed in private services last year with an average annual wage of $59,000. A photo from this morning's Services Caucus announcement
02.14.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the tax-writing share: f t President Obama’s Latest Budget: More Spending, Taxes and Borrowing Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the tax-writing House Ways & Means Committee, issued the following statement in response to the release of President Obama’s FY2012 Budget:“Among the many numbers proposed in the President’s budget, two stand out: 2 and 4. While many families have less income, the President is on his way to doubling the size of the federal government in just his first term of office. And despite his claims, the facts show his deficits are a whopping four times larger than the ones he inherited when he took office.Another number of interest is 14 million. That’s the number of Americans out of work because businesses large and small are reluctant to hire while the White House continues its call for higher taxes, regulation and energy prices.While the President ducked the pressing need to reform entitlement programs, he found room to propose $1.6 trillion in new taxes on professionals and small businesses – plus $87.8 billion in higher taxes on America’s energy companies and nearly $50 billion in job killing taxes on local banks and real estate partnerships. When it comes to controlling these dangerous deficits and getting the economy going, the President’s numbers don’t add up.” Key facts from President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2012 Budget (Courtesy House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan):Spends Too Much· $3.8 trillion in spending this year; 25.3% of GDP (highest since WWII)· $46 trillion in spending over the decade; $8.7 trillion in new spendingTaxes Too Much· $1.6 trillion tax hike on families, small businesses, and job creators· Revenues as a percent of GDP climb to 20%Borrows Too Much· $1.6 trillion deficit for FY2012; a record third straight trillion dollar deficit· Doubles and then triples debt held by the public since President took office· $13 trillion added to the debt over the decade
02.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Tom Graves (R-Georgia) have filed HR 663: The Save Our States Act to stop share: f t Bill would suspend ObamaCare while the courts review its constitutionality Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressmen Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and Tom Graves (R-Georgia) have filed HR 663: The Save Our States Act to stop the implementation of ObamaCare while the court battles continue over its constitutionality. “Now that more than half of our states have won federal court rulings that ObamaCare goes beyond the boundaries established by the Constitution, our states should not be forced to implement any ObamaCare provisions nor should our job creators be saddled with its new taxes and tax reporting requirements,” said Brady, the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “While it is clear to me that this legislation is heading for the U.S. Supreme Court, the administration is moving full steam ahead to put all of this unconstitutional legislation’s bewildering bureaucracy in place.”“With declining revenue forcing deep budget cuts in the states, it’s irresponsible to ask governors to divert already scarce resources toward building a massive infrastructure for ObamaCare until the Supreme Court issues a definitive ruling on the law,” added Graves. “If Judge Vinson’s ruling is affirmed, state budgets will be saved from billion-dollar federal mandates that will create millions of new Medicaid enrollees and force millions of private employees into the government-run health care exchanges. Our governors should not be trapped between an invalid law and an indignant administration. President Obama should have to prove his law is Constitutional before the tentacles of big government grab substantial control over state budgets.”ObamaCare, if left in place, will impose hundreds of billions of dollars in additional costs on Americans, their states and their employers. “Imposing these burdens now, when the Supreme Court may overturn ObamaCare entirely is ludicrous,” added Brady. “Instead, our bill removes the uncertainty surrounding ObamaCare that is holding back our economy.”A similar bill, S. 281, has been filed in the Senate by U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas). Both bills delay provisions and new regulations of the Obama health care law that are not already in effect until final judicial resolution.
02.04.2011	Washington, D.C. - As the Federal Reserve helped pumped the stock market up to pre-crisis levels, job creation in the U.S. remained anemic share: f t Job Creation Numbers are much worse than expected, says House GOP Economic Leader Washington, D.C. - As the Federal Reserve helped pumped the stock market up to pre-crisis levels, job creation in the U.S. remained anemic with only 36,000 non-farm payroll jobs added in January. Even though the nation's unemployment rate dipped to 9%, it is not a positive sign when the unemployment rate drops because hundreds of thousands of Americans have stopped looking for work. Meanwhile, 378,000 fewer payroll jobs were created last year that previously announced. "America's job creators remain cautious, because they know our economy has been held back from its natural recovery by misplaced economic policies tumbling out of Washington," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the vice chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee. "The right strategy for getting Americans back to work is not another 'jobs bill' piled high with pork-barrel spending," added Brady. "Our recovery will accelerate by subtraction - by rolling back the job-killing legislation and regulations of the past two years that discourage hiring including the new health care law."
01.31.2011	Conroe -- Statement by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) on U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson's ruling that the individual mandate in ObamaCare share: f t Lower Courts Building Compelling Case for U.S. Supreme Court Conroe -- Statement by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) on U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson's ruling that the individual mandate in ObamaCare is unconstitutional:"This important ruling continues to build a compelling case for the U.S. Supreme Court to ultimately declare unconstitutional the mandate that every American buy government-approved health care. Make no mistake, the mandate is the core of ObamaCare and striking it down will unravel the entire misguided government takeover of health care.”Congressman Brady is the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee where he chairs the Subcommittee on Trade.
01.28.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on today's announcement share: f t Significant Economic Growth Requires a Smaller Government and Less Federal Spending Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement on today's announcement that our economy grew at an annual rate of 3.2% in the last quarter of 2010:"I'm encouraged that Americans gained a little more confidence at the end of last year, but as long as we continue to post record deficits significant job creation is unlikely. To bring the unemployment rate down to pre-recession levels, we will need several quarters of real economic growth in excess of 5%. To do that, we need to remove the biggest drags on our economy -- over spending, over regulation and over taxation."
01.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - As residents across the great state of Texas begin preparing their federal tax returns, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) has share: f t Introduces bill to make the state and local sales tax deduction permanent Washington, D.C. - As residents across the great state of Texas begin preparing their federal tax returns, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) has filed a bill to make a critical state and local sales tax deduction permanent. "Texas families should have confidence that every penny of state and local sales tax that they pay can be deducted from their federal tax bill," said Brady, a senior member of the tax writing House Ways and Means Committee and a bipartisan leader on the issue of sales tax deduction who restored the deduction after a 16 year absence. "This is an issue of fairness. Residents of "income tax" states are able to deduct their state and local income taxes, so why shouldn't the average Texas taxpayer be able to do the same and increase their refund by $520?" According to the Texas Comptroller, the sales tax deduction saves Texans about $1.2 billion per year. Texans will be able to deduct their sales taxes on their 10-40's for 2010 and 2011, but a permanent extension remains necessary. "If the sales tax deduction is ever allowed to expire, residents of "sales tax only" states like Texas would suffer an unequal, and unjustified tax burden," added Brady. "I intend to keep that from happening."
01.26.2011	Washington, D.C. - "Today we learned the national debt is far worse than anyone imagined. The White House has mortgaged our kids' futures, share: f t Washington, D.C. - "Today we learned the national debt is far worse than anyone imagined. The White House has mortgaged our kids' futures, but what do we have to show for it? Our economy is worse that what the President told us it would be if we didn't pass the stimulus. If we don't reverse course now, it will be several trillion dollars worse by the end of this decade."Brady, who represents the 8th District of Texas, is the Vice Chair-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
01.20.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee and the top House Republican on the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), chairman of the House Ways & Means Trade Subcommittee and the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee met with President Hu Jintao of China today as part of a bipartisan House delegation led by Speaker John Boehner. In addition to concerns over the Chinese currency, Brady has concentrated on removing barriers that shut American companies out of the growing Chinese market. He continues to press China’s leaders to adequately protect U.S. intellectual property rights, eliminate harmful “indigenous innovation” policies and to end subsidies, directed lending and restrictions on exports of key raw materials. “In order to build stronger ties, China and the United States must address and resolve longstanding global competitiveness issues that shut America out of that market and hamper China’s development as a responsible stakeholder in the global economy," said Brady. “I continue to seek the release of Dr. Xue Feng, a constituent of The Woodlands and an American businessman who is currently imprisoned in China, on humanitarian grounds. Dr. Xue’s health is failing, his family here in Texas is suffering and I will continue to raise this issue at every level until he is reunited with his wife and children once again."
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, whose charts documented the bewildering bureaucratic complexity of the 2,801 page health care law President Obama signed share: f t "You deserve the right to make your own decisions about your health" says Brady Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, whose charts documented the bewildering bureaucratic complexity of the 2,801 page health care law President Obama signed into law last year, strongly supported House Republican efforts to repeal ObamacCare and replace it with common sense reforms focused on increasing the power of patients and lowering cost.After seven hours of debate the House voted 245 -189 in favor of HR 2, the Repeal The Job-Killing Health Care Law Act which Congressman Brady co-sponsored.“This is your life. This your health care. You deserve the right to make your own decisions about your health rather than being forced into a government plan that’s centered around Washington’s needs and not yours," said Brady. "Health care is too important to get wrong and ObamaCare got it wrong. American families, seniors and employers deserve better and the right place to start is by starting over.”Brady, who helped lead the fight against the Presidents health care plan last year, believes there are many reasons for repealing this massive bureaucracy including the price which economists estimate will drive up the deficit by over $700 billion in the first decade.Congressman Brady is a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and incoming Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee.Here is a link to Congressman Brady's floor speech from earlier today: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a0teTY3V2vQ
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the incoming Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, called today's announcement of 103,000 new share: f t House economic leader worried about Americans who have stopped looking for work Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the incoming Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, called today's announcement of 103,000 new payroll jobs in December "disappointing" as the numbers fell well below expectations.Meanwhile, the nation's unemployment rate remains elevated at 9.4 percent after a decline in part because 260,000 Americans stopped actively looking for work."We've said all along that if Washington will get out of the way of the private sector our recovery will begin in earnest," said Brady. "The new conservative House is already beginning to tackle the job-killing policies that have dampened consumer and business confidence."Brady warned that future job creation will suffer if Congress does not make steep spending cuts and address the staggering deficit and flood of excessive regulation on employers of all sizes.
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - Washington, DC. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) introduced the CUTS Act today that reduces federal spending by $153 billion, which share: f t There can be no 'sacred cows' because we "simply can't allow these dangerous deficits to continue" Washington, D.C. - Washington, DC. – U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) introduced the CUTS Act today that reduces federal spending by $153 billion, which he calls a ‘down payment' on getting America's financial books in order. Many of the savings items were identified by the recent bi-partisan deficit reduction commission. They include shrinking the federal workforce by 10 percent, cutting White House and Congressional budgets, freezing pay for federal workers and Congress, selling excess federal property, cutting programs that are obsolete or duplicate others and reducing Department of Defense spending on wasteful procurement. The bill, titled "Cut Unsustainable and Top-heavy Spending", also collects unpaid federal taxes from federal workers, denies unemployment benefits to millionaires and eliminates programs targeted by both the Bush and Obama administrations. "Our nation's budget is out of control. We need to take strong actions today to get it back on track," said Brady. "Both Republicans and Democrats on the deficit commission agreed these cuts need to be made, so let's make a down payment on restoring our nation to a balanced budget and leaner government." Brady believes that every federal agency and program, including ones he supports, can operate more efficiently. "Our economy won't grow until businesses and families have some faith that Washington will get their finances in order. I recognize that these are serious savings so I expect serious opposition - but there can be no sacred cows. If someone objects to these cuts then I expect them to substitute another savings of equal or greater value. We simply can't allow these dangerous deficits to continue." Kevin Brady is the incoming Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.List of Spending CutsDescription of Spending Cuts
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is in the unique position of leading two congressional panels in the 112th Session of the share: f t Also holds Leadership posts in GOP House & House Conservatives Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is in the unique position of leading two congressional panels in the 112th Session of the U.S. Congress. Already a senior member of the powerful House Ways & Means Committee, Brady will chair the Trade Subcommittee and serve as the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee of the House-Senate. He will continue to hold the leadership post of Deputy Whip for the majority and serve on the steering committee (board of directors) for the Republican Study Committee – the group of House conservatives growing in influence within the halls of Congress. “I like a full plate. I’ve worked hard to earn the respect of my colleagues and get in the position to help shape our country’s future. That’s never more important than now since it’s critical we get this country back on the right track," said Brady, who adds that these leadership posts give the constituents of the 8th District greater clout and influence on issues facing America. Brady has emerged as a leading GOP voice on economic, tax, trade and health care issues in Congress and is helping lead the fight to resume production of American energy in the Gulf of Mexico. His health care charts revealed the complexity and bureaucracy of the new national health care law which he is now fighting to repeal and replace with commonsense reforms. Trade Subcommittee: “Trade is all about creating American jobs - giving our businesses and farmers a chance to compete for customers throughout the world on a level playing field. It’s especially important to the Texas economy since we are the largest exporting state in the nation,” says Brady who has helped lead the successful passage of free trade agreements in Congress. Joint Economic Committee. Brady will lead the House as vice chairman of the Joint House-Senate Economic Committee, co-leading the panel when the Senate chair is named this month. (The chairmanship of the panel rotates from the House to the Senate in alternating sessions). The JEC was created by law to advise Congress on the economy and to serve as the counterweight to the White House Council of Economic Advisors. “The economy is job number one. I’ve used the JEC leadership to spotlight the failures of the Obama economic policies and advocate for getting Washington out of the way of our job creators so we can get this recovery up and running”, said Brady. House Ways & Means Committee. This committee is considered among the most powerful in Congress with jurisdiction over all taxes, Social Security, Medicare, trade and welfare. Brady helped put in place the Bush tax cuts in 2001 and 2003. He led the successful fight to restore the restore the state and local sales tax deduction which saves Texas taxpayers $1.2 billion a year. This session Brady serves as the second highest ranking Republican on the Social Security Sub-committee where he focuses on restoring solvency to Social Security and creating equal treatment for Texas teachers impacted by complicated formulas that reduce their benefits.
12.22.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), criticized the Administration's latest government takeover scheme to impose new regulation on the internet by the share: f t Internet has prospered without heavy hand of government Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), criticized the Administration's latest government takeover scheme to impose new regulation on the internet by the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) in the name of ‘net neutrality". "If it ain't broke, don't fix it," said Brady. "The beauty of the internet is that it's grown and evolved without the clumsy and heavy hand of government.""Frankly, as consumers we pay providers to manage their traffic to our satisfaction – or we find another who will. There are lots of choices and we don't need Washington to mandate what’s best for us. I will fight in the new Congress to overturn this FCC power grab and restore the free market to the Internet." While the FCC is free to act, many in Congress are signaling a swift pushback in the 112th Congress.
12.16.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the passage of tax relief for all Americans:"For too long share: f t House Economic Leader vows to continue battle for spending cuts Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the passage of tax relief for all Americans:"For too long a gun has been pointed at taxpayers' heads. Letting that nearly $4 trillion tax gun go off would have hurt our families, small businesses, seniors and America's economy.In this economy, it is critical to extend all tax cuts for all Americans now. While well meaning, as a conservative I'm skeptical of the sales pitch that we should have just let that gun go off in hopes we would get a better deal later. As a matter of principle, I will not raise taxes on anyone for any length of time, period.I opposed the spending that wasn't paid for and fought for a House vote on my amendment to cut $153 billion in federal spending from the bill. House Democrats denied a vote on that amendment, but I'm going to keep fighting for spending cuts in the new Republican majority next month."Congressman Brady is the Vice Chairman-designate of the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee.
12.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the share: f t Bill would offset unemployment insurance and spending for refundable tax credits Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, urged members of the Rules Committee tonight to approve his amendment to the extension of the Bush tax cuts that would offset spending increases in the bill. “Preventing crippling tax increases from taking effect January 1 is critical to families, small businesses, seniors and America’s economy. The agreement provides $9 dollars in tax relief for each dollar in spending, but we can do better to reduce the deficit.” Brady’s amendment is modeled after the amendment offered by Oklahoma Senator Tom Coburn which was offered on the Senate floor earlier today. It proposes $153 billion in spending cuts recommended by the President’s bipartisan deficit reduction panel. “I urge House Democrats to allow a straight up-or-down vote in the House tomorrow as it considers this critical tax relief bill.” Brady’s spending cuts include reducing the federal workforce by 10%, cutting congressional budgets by 15%, eliminating wasteful programs, selling off excess federal property, and eliminating funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, among other cuts.Brady Amendment
12.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Shelley Berkley (D-NV) and Kevin Brady (R-TX), the authors of the Estate Tax Relief Act (H.R. 3905), say share: f t "Sensible, stable framework" will help families and businesses make plans Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Shelley Berkley (D-NV) and Kevin Brady (R-TX), the authors of the Estate Tax Relief Act (H.R. 3905), say the President and Members of Congress need to work together to limit the impact of the returning estate tax.The agreement announced by the President would lower the death tax to a 35% rate with the first $5 million of estate property exempted, as Brady and Berkley proposed in their legislation.“Our bipartisan plan creates a sensible, stable framework to help families and businesses effectively plan for the future. We provide an exemption of $5 million for individuals and $10 million for couples and establish a new 35% estate tax rate. No one should lose their job because the estate tax forced a family business to close,” said Congresswoman Berkley. “Failure to act before the end of this year will leave Americans facing a return to pre-2001 estate tax rates, so it’s urgent that we come together and pass this compromise now.”"While I remain firmly opposed to the fundamentally unfair death tax and will continue to fight for its full repeal, the truth of the matter is Americans who have worked their entire lives just to leave a small business or farm to their children and grandchildren deserve better than a 55 percent estate tax on January 1st," said Brady, who leads the anti-death tax coalition in the U.S. House. "This framework provides the best option available right now to prevent the estate tax from returning to the unacceptable levels of the past and ensnaring small businesses and family farms."While the estate tax is temporarily repealed under current law, Congress must take action to prevent a return of the tax in 2011, when estates over $1 million will suddenly face a 55% tax rate.
12.07.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), issued the following statement on the deal to extend tax relief to all Americans. "Defusing share: f t House Economic Leader calls plan an encouraging sign that "the compass is pointing back in the right direction" Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), issued the following statement on the deal to extend tax relief to all Americans."Defusing the $4 trillion New Years Day tax bomb while stopping the death tax from destroying family farms and small businesses is a solid win for job creators. I support this agreement as long as no additional spending or other bills are tacked on to it.There is a bigger change at work here, as well. The recent pay freeze on federal workers, a ban on earmarks and now the extension of tax cuts for all Americans should encourage citizens that after two years they are starting to be heard. The compass is pointing back the right direction and it's due to voters in November who demanded change and a Republican Congress that is sticking to their 'no tax increase' guns. Even though getting America back on the right track won't happen overnight, these are encouraging signs."Congressman Brady is the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee.
12.03.2010	Washington, D.C. - Despite hopes of job growth, the unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent, up from 9.6 percent in October. The rise share: f t House Economic Leader says recovery painfully slow Washington, D.C. - Despite hopes of job growth, the unemployment rate rose to 9.8 percent, up from 9.6 percent in October. The rise is largely due to 390,000 Americans being laid off or losing part-time jobs in November, while the total number of non-farm payroll jobs grew by a weak 39,000 jobs. "This recovery remains painfully slow, held back by consumers doubtful of the President's ability to manage the economy and businesses discouraged by Washington Democrats' tax hikes and job blocking regulations," said U.S.Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Yesterday's action by the House to raise taxes on the very consumers and small businesses who can get this economy moving again is more of the same failed economic policies that have hindered America's recovery." Noting that 17 months after the recession officially ended no new net jobs have yet been added to the economy, Brady said "It's stunning that trillions of dollars of fiscal and monetary stimulus have failed to jump start this economy. It's a sobering reminder that government doesn't create jobs, and the wrong government actions like we've seen these past two years can certainly depress them."
12.01.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration's decision to maintain a drilling share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement in response to the Obama Administration’s decision to maintain a drilling ban in the eastern Gulf of Mexico and off the Pacific and Atlantic coasts."Apparently the President was for opening new access to American made energy before he was against it. It's time for the White House to stop determining energy policy by holding a finger up to gauge the political winds. We need more American made energy from all sources produced by American energy workers. Why doesn't the President get this?" asked Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "The continued de facto drilling moratorium, high energy taxes that drive American energy jobs overseas and now the flip-flop from the President's announcement earlier this year all contribute to greater American dependence on foreign oil and eventually higher energy prices. That's clear." "When this administration continues to flounder, how can businesses ever hope to be able to plan for their futures?" added Brady who has been fighting to get America’s energy workers back on the job ever since the Administration’s original hasty Gulf of Mexico drilling moratorium. "Instead of stifling the energy sector which generated over $4 billion in federal royalty revenue last fiscal year, the Administration should let our energy workers get back to work instead of trying to justify even more tax increases on American families and small businesses.”
11.29.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement on the President's share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement on the President's Pay Freeze for certain Federal Employees."It's clear that voters in November have forced President Obama to realize that average Americans and Republicans in Congress are serious about getting the dangerous deficit under control.The pay freeze is a tiny step – the savings from a freeze this year is the equivalent of what the federal government spends every five hours – so much bigger savings are needed to get back to a balanced budget. And let’s keep this in perspective; federal workers already make an average of 20% more than workers along Main Street.I thought it was revealing that the President sought only a freeze on salaries, but not on the size of the federal workforce which is growing larger and will explode in size with the passage of Obamacare and the new banking regulations. Its simply not enough to freeze an already bloated federal government. Republicans will fight to shrink the federal workforce and spending to get back on the path to a balanced budget in the future."
11.18.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today House Republicans were unanimous in adopting an earmark ban for the 112th Congress. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top share: f t Brady calls ban for 112th Congress 'a first step towards getting our country's fiscal house in order' Washington, D.C. - Today House Republicans were unanimous in adopting an earmark ban for the 112th Congress. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee who spoke at the GOP conference meeting in support of the ban, called it “a first step towards getting our country's fiscal house in order." "Earmarks have become a symbol of what's broken in Washington, and with a trillion dollar federal deficit each year we simply can’t afford them. Although earmarks are a tiny portion of Washington's total spending, and are appropriate in certain circumstances, the fact is that right now every dollar of savings is critical to achieve a balanced budget. Calling a time out to end the abuses and change the way Washington works is exactly what’s needed. "
11.15.2010	Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and an early proponent of the share: f t House Economic Leader praises Senate Republican Leader's decision to rein in government spending Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and an early proponent of the earmark moratorium in the U.S. House of Representatives, issued the following statement after Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell announced he would support a ban on earmarks."This is long overdue and a significant first step to demonstrate that the new Republican majority will not govern like the last Republican majority."Clearly, not all earmarks are bad, but they have become a symbol of uncontrolled Washington spending and they must be reformed. With a $13.7 trillion U.S. deficit, business as usual is just not an option. I also believe a time-out will help us ‘reboot the computer’ and begin to end the entitlement mentality within too many state and local governments across America that they are somehow owed a fair share of federal spending."The best thing we can do to strengthen our local communities is to get the economy on track and get America’s financial books in order.”
11.05.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today's discouraging employment report confirms what the American people said loud and clear on Tuesday -- the President needs a share: f t Americans told the President to Change His Economic Course, Now It's Time to Do So, says House Economic Leader Washington, D.C. - Today's discouraging employment report confirms what the American people said loud and clear on Tuesday -- the President needs a new economic direction."If we are to jumpstart this sub-par recovery, President Obama must change course now," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "With the jobless rate stalled out at 9.6% in October and economic growth at an anemic 2%, we are unlikely to see real improvement in our economy until the President orders a full stop on his economic policies and charts a new course."With 6.21 million Americans unemployed for six months or longer, there are simply not enough private sector jobs being created. Last month, 159,000 private sector payroll jobs were created, but we need to be adding at least 200,000 payroll jobs per month in order to significantly reduce the unemployment rate."While President Obama and the Democrats in Congress spent the last two years doubling down on the size of the federal government, they forgot that government jobs only last as long as taxpayers are willing to foot the bill," added Brady. "The American people didn't forget. That's why they spoke so loudly on Tuesday. If the President wants to show that he's willing to listen, he could start by extending the Bush tax cuts to all Americans."
10.29.2010	Washington, D.C. -- America's economic health remains anemic as third quarter GDP numbers were released this morning by the federal government. Real GDP share: f t House Economic Leader says "time has run out" on Obama's failed economic policies Washington, D.C. -- America's economic health remains anemic as third quarter GDP numbers were released this morning by the federal government. Real GDP for the third quarter of 2010 grew at a tepid annual rate of 2.0 percent, having dropped by more than half since the start of the year. “This continues to be a feeble economy at best. It wants to grow stronger, it ought to grow stronger but the economy continues to be hobbled by the anti-business, job killing policies of the Obama White House and Congress,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “Today the single biggest obstacle to America's recovery is Washington. Perhaps the best way to restore business and consumer confidence is to change the lawmakers who support the President's failed economic policies of dangerous deficits, higher taxes and excessive regulation.” In the 15 months of the Obama recovery, payroll employment has dropped by 439,000 jobs and the country continues to struggle with a stubborn 9.6 percent unemployment rate. That performance is sub-par, says Brady, when compared to the same period in the Reagan recovery that began in December 1982 when nearly 4.4 million workers were added to payrolls and the unemployment rate dropped by a full 3 percentage points to 7.8 percent.“With 15 million Americans out of work and an economy that will likely remain anemic for the next two years, time has run out for the White House and Congressional Democrats,” said Brady. “We must jettison the current economic policies that are holding the country back in favor of fiscally responsible, market-driven solutions.”
10.29.2010	Washington, D.C. - US Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, has written to Federal Reserve Chairman share: f t Brady says fiscal policy – not monetary policy – is main barrier to recovery Washington, D.C. - US Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, has written to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke to share his concerns that the Federal Reserve’s new round of quantitative easing will not be effective in spurring economic growth. In his letter, Brady acknowledges the independence of the Federal Reserve from Congress in conducting monetary policy. Excerpts from the October 26 letter to Chairman Bernanke include: “I worry that the Federal Reserve is embarking on an unwise policy of additional quantitative easing, in large part, to offset the drag on real GDP growth created by the budget, regulatory, and tax policies of President Obama and this Congress.”"I fear the risk [of much higher inflation down the road] from a new round of quantitative easing far exceeds the potential reward [of a small, short-term boost to growth].” "In discussions in my district in Texas and around the country, no entrepreneur has told me that high interest rates are deterring his or her firm from making investments or hiring new workers. Instead, it is the uncertainty over the impact of federal budget deficits, new mandates and regulations, barriers to commercial mortgage lending erected, in part, by the overreaction of bank regulators to stress in the commercial real estate market, and tax policies that deter new investment and job creation.”
10.26.2010	Washington, D.C. - When California Democrat Nancy Pelosi took the gavel as the new Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives in January share: f t After promising 'no new deficit spending', Pelosi added nearly $5 trillion to the national debt in first two terms Washington, D.C. - When California Democrat Nancy Pelosi took the gavel as the new Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives in January of 2007, she promised she would "provide unlimited opportunity for future generations, not burden them with mountains of debt. Congress will commit itself to a higher standard: pay-as-you-go, no new deficit spending."Less than four years later, the total public debt has skyrocketed by nearly $5 trillion - to a now record $13.67 trillion dollars in national IOU's. "Congratulations, Madame Speaker, on saddling more debt on the backs of our children and grandchildren than any other speaker in America's history," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "And there's more for the record books. The last two years have seen the largest deficits in America's history. The question is -- when will it stop?"When Pelosi took over from Republicans in 2007 the federal government was running an annual deficit of $160.8 billion. In fiscal year 2009 the deficit was the largest in history - $1.41 trillion - followed by this year's $1.29 trillion, the second largest deficit on record."These dangerous Democratic deficits are weighing down the economy and have become their excuse for pushing higher taxes on an already over-taxed nation," added Brady. "Frankly, Americans just want to wake up from this spend, borrow and tax nightmare."
10.21.2010	Download JEC Employment Map Washington, D.C. - The twenty largest metropolitan areas in America have a million fewer workers on the job share: f t 17 of 20 largest metro areas have fewer jobs today than when stimulus began 13 private sector jobs lost for each federal job created Download JEC Employment Map Washington, D.C. - The twenty largest metropolitan areas in America have a million fewer workers on the job today than when the $814 billion federal stimulus program began, according to a new economic analysis by a congressional panel. Seventeen of the 20 largest regions lost a total of 1,037,000 non-farm payroll jobs. The only major metro areas to add workers were Washington, D.C., Boston and Baltimore.The study also reveals that while private sector jobs shrunk by nearly 557,000, federal government jobs grew by 42,700 in the major communities. On average, thirteen private sector jobs were lost for each federal job created. The biggest job losers were Los Angeles, San Francisco, Miami-Fort Lauderdale, Chicago and Phoenix. They are followed by Detroit, Riverside-San Bernardino, Philadelphia, Houston and Atlanta. "With a million fewer workers in our major cities today than when the stimulus began, I can't imagine how the White House can proclaim it as anything but a terrible disappointment," said U.S.Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee."It's striking that for every new worker added to the federal payroll, thirteen workers along Main Street got laid off," added Brady. President Obama promised that 90 per cent of the stimulus jobs would be created in the private sector. The reality is just the opposite."The analysis was compiled from U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data by the minority staff of the Joint Economic Committee covering the months from March 2009 to August 2010. JEC Employment MapPayroll Employment Change in 20 largest Metropolitian Statistical Areas
10.15.2010	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after a Florida Federal Judge ruled that a major lawsuit against the share: f t Brady pleased with Florida Federal Judge's Ruling Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after a Florida Federal Judge ruled that a major lawsuit against the new national health care law can proceed: "The majority of Americans have made no bones about their desire to repeal Obamacare so I'm pleased to hear that 20 state Attorneys General -- including Texas' Greg Abbott -- will be allowed to make their case that this massive expansion of government is unconstitutional. Mandating that all Americans buy health insurance and all states expand their Medicaid programs -- regardless of their ability to do so -- are serious issues that deserve a full hearing."
10.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - It's official. According to today's report by the U.S. Treasury, the federal debt has exploded by more than $3.9 trillion share: f t House Economic Leader calls years of Obama-Pelosi-Reid Deficits 'an American Tragedy'Washington, D.C. - It's official. According to today's report by the U.S. Treasury, the federal debt has exploded by more than $3.9 trillion in just the past three years under Democratic control of Congress. Federal debt held by the public has increased 79 percent to a staggering $9.02 trillion leaving Americans to shoulder the burden of a federal government that is now nearly a quarter of America's economy."This is an American tragedy," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "While Democrats are celebrating that this year's deficit is 'only' $1.3 trillion, the American public is just sick about the overspending - and determined to elect a more responsible majority come November 2."Massive deficits are the true legacy of President Obama and congressional Democrats to future generations, notes Brady."History will show these dangerous levels of deficits and debt as a crisis point in America's stability and prosperity. Reversing these deficits, shrinking the size of a bloated government and restoring an economy fueled by the free market rather than Washington is the key to America's future," said Brady.BackgroundIn FY 2010, federal spending was $3.455 trillion, equal to 23.6 percent of GDP. Federal spending is 4.1 percentage points above the post-World War II average of federal spending of 19.5 percent of GDP.
10.12.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement following the Obama Administration's decision to end the deepwater drilling moratorium. "This share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement following the Obama Administration's decision to end the deepwater drilling moratorium."This is welcome, but long overdue, and we'll see if they're just lifting the moratorium in name only or in practice. If they do as they do in the shallow waters -- where there's no permits -- our energy workers aren't going to be getting back on the job anytime soon." Congressman Brady will be meeting with Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement Director Michael Bromwich next week on the new rules for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
10.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - While President Obama continues to deny the U.S. economy is in a jobless economy, the September unemployment rate stayed stagnant share: f t Time to Change Policy-Makers in Washington, says House Economic Leader Washington, D.C. - While President Obama continues to deny the U.S. economy is in a jobless economy, the September unemployment rate stayed stagnant at 9.6% as 95,000 more American workers lost their jobs. "The economy isn't getting worse but it's not getting much better either, and that's not good enough," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "The president is 'stuck on the stimulus' while Congress continues its job-killing agenda. How many more of these disappointing jobs reports will American workers tolerate before they demand a change in Washington?" "The American public has lost confidence in the president's ability to handle the economy. So have job creators along Main Street," Brady added. "If the policy makers in the White House and Congress refuse to change their failed economic policies then perhaps it's time to change them. November is a good time to start." According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, more than fourteen months after the recovery officially began the unemployment rate is worse and 439,000 fewer workers hold jobs.
10.06.2010	Washington, D.C. - Concerned that federal bank regulators are making the challenges confronting America's commercial real estate sector worse, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady share: f t Brady Aims to Create a Better Environment for Local CRE Lending and Investment Washington, D.C. - Concerned that federal bank regulators are making the challenges confronting America's commercial real estate sector worse, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) has introduced legislation to stabilize commercial mortgage lending and strengthen private investment in the commercial real estate market.“With $1.4 trillion of commercial real estate loans coming due over the next four years, Congress should examine whether current law and regulatory edicts from Washington provide a stable environment for the renewal of performing loans in our local communities," said Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee."Right now federal bank regulators are overcorrecting, viewing every loan connected to commercial real estate as a problem loan. This inflexible, one-size-fits-all regulatory restriction creates harsh pressure on community and regional banks to deny loans to long-standing commercial real estate customers, including small businesses whose lines of credit are backed by CRE assets,” said Brady.Brady adds, “This legislation is a first step toward addressing liquidity and restoring balance to commercial real estate lending.” The measure, H.R. 6317, requires reports on the number of maturing commercial mortgage loans at banks that were current and had adequate cash flows for debt service, but that banks did not renew because of pressure from federal bank regulators. H.R.6317 changes current law to permit banks to build up loan loss reserves to better weather economic downturns. To encourage private investment in real estate, H.R. 6317 reduces the tax depreciation schedule on commercial real estate from 39 years to 20 years and on residential rental real estate from 27½ years to 20 years. To allow businesses to use their losses to reduce their tax liabilities, H.R. 6317 also increases the carry back period for net operating losses from 5 years to 2 years, among other provisions.
09.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today the administration released rules regulating drilling and workplace safety, but the job killing moratorium remains in place. "Is there share: f t Are the new rules likely to bring back energy jobs? No! Washington, D.C. - Today the administration released rules regulating drilling and workplace safety, but the job killing moratorium remains in place. "Is there even a plan to restore the jobs lost due to the moratorium?" asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Overall, I’m not encouraged.""As energy jobs bleed from the Gulf, we continue to see signals that we will have a drilling moratorium, formal or de facto, for the foreseeable future," said Brady. Tens of thousands of energy workers are staring job losses in the face because of this administration's relentless focus to stop drilling. "Essentially, this administration wants the energy industry to suit up for the game, but they won’t let them on the field. What the energy sector needs is certainty and a clear path forward to resume energy exploration" added Brady.The drilling moratorium is scheduled to remain in place until November 30, 2010.
09.29.2010	Washington, D.C. -- The House of Representatives late last night passed a measure by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's (R-Texas) to audit the $20 share: f t Feds will examine the timeliness, accuracy of $20 billion claims fund Washington, D.C. -- The House of Representatives late last night passed a measure by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's (R-Texas) to audit the $20 billion fund by BP to compensate persons affected by the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The measure, HR 6016, directs the Comptroller General to conduct an ongoing independent investigation of the operations of the fund to determine the effectiveness, timeliness and accuracy of the claims process.The comptroller will report back to Congress every 90 days."This fund is critical to many families, businesses and communities impacted by the gulf spill. It’s important that the claims process be fair and timely, as well as free from fraud, bias or political pressure,” said Brady.Only two percent – about $400 million - of the $20 billion fund has been distributed to date. Community leaders, state attorneys general and individuals have registered complaints about the speed and fairness of the fund which is headed by Kenneth R. Feinberg who was appointed by President Obama to oversee the claims process.
09.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - After forcing through a sweeping new government health care plan over strong public opposition, Democrats in Washington were convinced that share: f t Businesses Look to Drop Expensive Government Mandated Insurance; Democrats Campaign Against Obamacare Washington, D.C. - After forcing through a sweeping new government health care plan over strong public opposition, Democrats in Washington were convinced that by now Americans would embrace Obamacare. As businesses look at dropping expensive new coverages and families face higher health care premiums from the new mandates, Americans are increasingly skeptical the 2,801 page reform will make health care affordable. "This massive bill crafted behind closed doors doesn’t look so good in the bright light of public scrutiny. The promises that health care costs would go down, federal spending would be reduced and small businesses would be more able to afford health care simply haven’t materialized,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), whose chart unveiled the new law's staggering bureaucracy. "These new government mandates aren’t free. American families are just starting to learn that they will pay more for health care -- not less -- under the Democrats' bill because nothing was done to control costs, eliminate frivolous medical lawsuits or give workers more choices in their health care.”Over the next few years senior citizens and local health care providers will start to feel the impact of over $500 billion in cuts to Medicare. In Texas, more than 300 physicians have already announced they are no longer seeing new Medicare patients due to reimbursement cuts from Washington. When Congress eventually runs out of money to fund the $2.6 trillion measure, experts predict the government will have no choice but to ration treatments and further restrict access to local health care providers. “Democrats are pushing the goodies up front before the November election and hoping Americans won’t notice the pain from this bill that will follow it," added Brady. "Voters will not forget an arrogant Congress that ignored the will of the people, rewarded a few special interests and interjected Washington bureaucrats into our most intimate health care decisions.”
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, questions the accuracy of today's Obama Administration share: f t New Report Ignores Mounting Small Business Job Losses and makes false claim most jobs will return Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, questions the accuracy of today’s Obama Administration report that minimizes economic losses from the President's ban on deepwater drilling and ongoing de facto ban in shallow water. “Today's report ignores mounting small business job losses occurring throughout the Gulf as a result of the moratoria in deep and shallow water,” said Brady, a Texas Republican who meets regularly with Gulf region businesses. “Like a rock gathering steam as it rolls downhill, more and more jobs are lost each day the moratoria persist," asserted Brady. “The economic damage from the continued moratoria is real and severe and it casts real doubt on the credibility of this report. How can this administration say that most of these jobs will return when they also project production cuts? While the administration seems to be celebrating that they have only 'temporarily' killed 8,000-12,000 jobs, the American people know that when you stop drilling, people stop working and businesses struggle to survive.” Moratorium Job Losses are Mounting Seahawk Drilling“Four of our jackup rigs have gone idle since the Macondo incident as a result of the de facto moratorium on shallow water drilling, forcing us to reduce our workforce by about 25%. At the current pace of permitting, we will likely have additional rigs that will go idle within the next 30 days as current drilling contracts are completed. With 50-60 direct Seahawk employees on each rig, and with working jackup rigs employing another 50-60 people each, this will be a significant blow to Seahawk, the industry, and the economy of the Gulf Coast,” said Randy Stilley, CEO of Seahawk Drilling in Houston, Texas. “The uncertain and unjustified regulatory environment that we currently face is forcing our customers to reduce drilling activity in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico, which could put Seahawk Drilling and many other companies at risk if the permitting situation doesn’t improve quickly.” Blackhawk Specialty Tools"Our company has lost 80% of our revenues since May 28," said Dean Robichaux, Vice President of Blackhawk Specialty Tools in Houston which has laid off nearly a quarter of their workforce. "In addition to the layoffs, all employees at our company have taken a significant pay cut and we are trying to survive by sending equipment and people overseas. If this deepwater moratorium and de facto shallow water moratorium are not over before the end of the year, we will have to lay off over half of the remaining employees or worse." Allamon Tool Company"Due to the moratorium, Allamon Tool Company in Montgomery, Texas was forced to lay off 53% of its employees and lost 70% of monthly revenue," said Jerry Allamon, "If the moratorium is not lifted, Allamon Tool Company could be forced to close the business within 6 months." Arena Energy "Due to the de facto shallow water moratorium, we have released the 3 rigs that were drilling for us during the Spring and reduced our workforce by 300 or roughly 75%," said Mike Minarovic of Arena Energy in The Woodlands, Texas. "We have no plans to re-hire workers until this uncertainty is resolved." Hercules Offshore, Inc. "Like other companies in our industry, we are doing everything we can to hold on to our employees despite having little or no work for many of them to do, said Jim Noe, Senior Vice President & General Counsel, Hercules Offshore, Inc. which has idled 173 rig workers and frozen any new hiring as their rigs wait for permit approvals that never seem to come. "In our industry, the drilling rig is the catalyst for jobs – it is a floating factory. In addition to the 100 workers each rig employs directly, another 400 workers rely on the rigs for their livelihoods – supply boat crews, equipment manufacturers, helicopter pilots, truckers, and grocery store owners. We have 15 of the 46 available shallow water rigs now idle. The lack of permits for new shallow water wells are slowing but surely shutting down these floating factories one-by-one."PPI Technology ServicesThis Houston company provides engineering support for drilling operations has laid off or lost almost 5% of their work force and shifted many employees overseas. "There is no doubt that the moratorium has affected ours and multiple others businesses and has created numerous job loses within our industry," said PPI CEO Randy Sullivan, who notes the deepwater moratorium has meant a 92% loss in revenue from one of their largest clients which has added up to $400,000 in lost annual wages.
09.13.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says he will not support any share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says he will not support any tax hikes on American families, professionals and small businesses:"I won't support any measure that does not keep the 2001 and 2003 tax relief fully in place, period. How can Democrats in Congress seriously believe the way to jumpstart our stalled economy is to heap new taxes on the very professionals and small businesses most critical to a recovery? It doesn't make economic sense. And given their track record, who in their right mind believes President Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi will use any tax hikes to reduce the debt? After wrecking the economy further, everyone understands all new taxes will end up financing more wasteful spending and further expansion of our bloated government."
09.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) would like to remind high school seniors and first year college students interested in seeking share: f t Congressman Kevin Brady seeks exceptional young men and women who wish to serve their countryWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) would like to remind high school seniors and first year college students interested in seeking a service academy nomination that the application deadline is fast approaching. Applications are due to the Congressman's office by October 25, 2010. To receive a service academy nomination from Congressman Brady, candidates must reside in the Eighth District of Texas, be a United States Citizen, be between the ages of 17 and 23 and unmarried. All applicants must submit a completed and signed Application for Nomination, official high school and/or college transcripts that show GPA and class rank, official SAT or ACT scores and 3 letters of recommendation. "The patriotic young men and women chosen to attend our service academies are the cream of the crop," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "If they are chosen, they have the opportunity to get a top of the line education and serve their country as a military officer." Please contact Justin Veillon, Academy Coordinator for the office at (409) 883-4197 with any questions concerning the application process. Applications can be found online on Congressman Brady's website at: www.house.gov/brady/academy_page.html.
09.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement on the President share: f t Tax increases kill energy jobs and harm job creators, says Brady Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement on the President latest $50 billion 'stimulus' plan: "How can any Texas lawmaker support this proposal after hearing that the President is again attacking our state's energy industry with billions of dollars in damaging new tax hikes that could kill Texas energy jobs and send them overseas? And, does the President seriously believe that heaping new taxes on the "wealthy" -- our professionals, job creators and small businesses -- is the way to get our economy back on the right track? It makes no sense. This proposal is exactly why poll after poll shows most Americans have lost confidence in the President's handling of the economy."Instead of new taxes, let's end the deepwater and de facto shallow water moratoriums that are sending our jobs overseas."
09.07.2010	Houston, TX - The moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and the undeniable de facto moratorium in shallow waters share: f t Deepwater Drilling Ban and de facto Ban in Shallow Waters will create ‘grave, permanent harm’ Houston, TX - The moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and the undeniable de facto moratorium in shallow waters are costing thousands of American jobs, and will create grave and permanent harm to workers and businesses if either is allowed to continue. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, is using his testimony to the Houston Forum on Offshore Drilling to strongly urge BOEM Director Michael Bromwich restore responsible, timely permitting of rigs in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico and to immediately end the deepwater moratorium.“Let our workers return to work and allow our businesses to again safely explore for and produce affordable energy for American families and companies,” said Brady. “It’s unacceptable that the Obama administration reinstated the drilling moratorium after the federal courts had struck it down, especially in the wake of revelations that the White House knew in advance it would force over 23,000 American energy workers out of their jobs and into the unemployment line.”“I find it equally troubling that President Obama has refused to accept an official congressional invitation to travel to Houston to meet face-to-face with energy workers and businesses in Texas impacted by his moratorium,” added Brady. “Don’t the jobs of our energy workers matter? What about the small and independent businesses that will not survive the shallow and deep water moratoriums - isn’t anyone in the White House listening to them?”
09.03.2010	Washington, D.C. - Americans seeking economic hope were disappointed again as the Obama administration reported the national jobless rate climbed back up to share: f t Washington, D.C. - Americans seeking economic hope were disappointed again as the Obama administration reported the national jobless rate climbed back up to 9.6% in August. The U.S. lost 54,000 jobs last month as the Census Bureau shed 114,000 temporary workers and the private sector created a meager 67,000 jobs nationwide. “With unemployment rising and more than a million Americans simply giving up hope for a job, there is not much for job-seekers to celebrate this Labor Day," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Clearly we are not spending our way back to prosperity. Instead we have dug a deeper ditch for our job creators to attempt to climb out of." 6.2 million Americans have been out of work for more than half a year now and a majority of economists expect very slow growth for the remainder of 2010 and 2011 on top of last week's second quarter growth revision down to a sluggish annual rate of 1.6 percent. “Enough is enough," said Brady. "The President needs to quit blaming everyone else on earth for his failed recovery and start fresh: change his economic team, change his economic policies and stop trying to tax and spend our way back to prosperity." Brady points out that as of August – the fourteenth month of “recovery” – the national unemployment rate is higher today than it was fourteen months ago, and Americans have actually lost 329,000 payroll jobs since the recession aparently ended. "The American people deserve better from Washington,” added Brady.
08.31.2010	Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's remarks on the official withdrawal of U.S. combat forces from Iraq: "Our troops put themselves in harm's share: f t Conroe - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's remarks on the official withdrawal of U.S. combat forces from Iraq:“Our troops put themselves in harm’s way to defend our countryand our way of life. We owe them -- as well as countless innocent Iraqis--our respect, our gratitude andour support. Our troops completed the job their then commander-in-chief assigned to them. To our troops and former President George W. Bush, I say 'well done.' As we celebrate the successful completion of the surge and proudly welcome home our victorious men and women, this Congress and White House must not forget the 50,000 troops who remain behind in Iraq to tackle difficult challenges that demand our resolve.”
08.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - Nearly 24,000 energy workers have lost their jobs since the Obama Administration imposed a drilling moratorium that a new report – prepared by share: f t Bipartisan Report on BP Spill says no moratorium is neededWashington, D.C. - Nearly 24,000 energy workers have lost their jobs since the Obama Administration imposed a drilling moratorium that a new report – prepared by the Bipartisan Policy Group for the presidential commission investigating the Deepwater Horizon blowout -- says is not needed at this time. "If this moratorium is no longer needed, Mr. President, we want our jobs back. What’s the plan to restore the jobs lost due to the moratorium?" asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. By the administration's own analysis, the idling of 33 rigs may have already cost the Gulf coast region 23,247 jobs. Rigs began leaving the Gulf this summer and drillers are raising concerns about the Obama administration's new permitting rules and regulations that -- even if the moratorium is lifted -- could create a de facto moratorium extending through next summer. "This is a very similar situation to what is happening in the shallow waters right now," added Brady. While there is no shallow water moratorium on the books, the permitting process has slowed to a crawl. "Right now this administration's anti-American energy agenda is adding insult to injury," lamented Brady. "Not only are our coastal communities dealing with an environmental catastrophe, this administration's handling of the moratorium and permit process is turning the situation into an economic catastrophe." Energy workers who understandably feel they are invisible to this administration are speaking out ahead of a September 7th hearing on the drilling moratorium in Houston. They plan to make their voices heard this Wednesday at a lunchtime rally at the George R. Brown Convention Center. "Mr. President, you banned deepwater drilling, you are dragging your feet in the shallow waters and energy companies are leaving the Gulf. Enough is enough,” concluded Brady. "America’s energy workers want their jobs back!”
08.27.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. growth is slowing dramatically, according to new figures released this morning by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). The U.S. share: f t Mr. President, what's the plan to get our economy back?Washington, D.C. - U.S. growth is slowing dramatically, according to new figures released this morning by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). The U.S. economy grew at annual rate of 1.6% in the second quarter – down from an initial estimate of 2.4% and only one-third of the growth rate at the end of last year. New home sales are at a record low, orders for all manufactured goods are down for the second month in a row, and there are fewer -- not more -- payroll jobs than when Congress enacted the Obama stimulus. “The truth of the matter is our economy is dangerously close to stalling out," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Today’s data is just another indicator – in contrast to the ‘Summer of Recovery’ – of Americans' declining confidence in our economy.” Americans don't need another stimulus sales pitch, but they are asking for a commonsense plan to get the economy back on track. "Families and small businesspeople know that the Administration's highly hyped ‘recovery’ faded too quickly for them to benefit," added Brady. "They also know that government-led spending sprees do not add up to real economic recovery.”
08.10.2010	Washington, D.C. - While Texas energy workers face losing their jobs due to the controversial drilling moratorium in the Gulf and nearly 15 million share: f t House Economic Leader opposed $26 Billion Bailout for Governors & Government Workers Washington, D.C. - While Texas energy workers face losing their jobs due to the controversial drilling moratorium in the Gulf and nearly 15 million other American workers are left without jobs, House Democrats called lawmakers back from across the country to pass a $26 billion bailout to state governments and politically connected teachers unions.“Isn’t every American job important? Why does Congress drop everything to bail out governors and government workers but ignore the average American family struggling to find work?” asked U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “Our energy workers deserve to go back to work and so do a lot of families let down by the failed economic policies of this Democratic White House. These workers don’t want a bailout – they want a job.”Brady also noted the bill is funded by punishing global companies that invest and “in-source” jobs to America and a future cut in federal food stamps for low income families. Brian Greene, the president and CEO of the Houston Food Bank told the Houston Chronicle these cuts would result in “flat out less food available for the children.” Leaders of dozens of other state and local charities implored members of Congress to vote against this bill.“More bailouts, more tax hikes, more favors to special interests. You have to give Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats their due – they may not listen to average Americans much but they certainly pay attention to the political action committees that back them, especially close to an election.”
08.06.2010	Washington, D.C. - As more Americans left the job hunt in July, the national jobless rate remained at 9.5%. "The economy is headed the share: f t Economic Growth Cut By Half Since Beginning of Year Due to Failed Democratic LeadershipWashington, D.C. - As more Americans left the job hunt in July, the national jobless rate remained at 9.5%."The economy is headed the wrong direction, with growth dropping by half since the beginning of the year. That’s not good news for struggling American families out of work, " said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "At what point will President Obama rethink his failed economic policies that have lowered consumer confidence and frightened job creators? At what point will Congressional Democrats stop bailing out government workers and start helping average Americans on Main Street?“The U.S. lost 131,000 jobs last month as the Census Bureau shed 143,000 temporary workers. The private sector gained 71,000 jobs – leaving the Obama Administration 7.3 million jobs short of their job-growth prediction prior to passage of the stimulus more than eighteen months ago."This report is more bad news for Americans out of work and the families they are desperately trying to support," added Brady. "It’s such a disconnect for the White House to be celebrating its ‘summer of recovery’ when fifteen million Americans remain out of work and many have simply given up looking.”The White House has sent the President and Vice President on the road for their "Summer of Recovery" Tour aimed at selling Americans on the benefits of their failed stimulus and bailout program. In sharp contrast, the economic news over the past few months has been focused on the slowdown in economic growth. "Failed government spending programs are costing the American people the recovery they deserve," said Brady. "Today's unemployment report is only likely to further heighten fears that the economic situation will only get worse in the final months of this year.""Our small businesses and families know that trillions in deficit spending has not helped their bottom lines and they are practically begging this Congress and White House to stop spending," concluded Brady. "They just want to know when Washington will finally get out of the way and let the economy truly start healing."
08.04.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) responded to reports that the Obama Administration may end the moratorium on deepwater drilling in share: f t Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) responded to reports that the Obama Administration may end the moratorium on deepwater drilling in the Gulf before its scheduled November 30th expiration.“I’m pleased the White House is finally acknowledging the devastating impact its drilling ban is having on American energy jobs and the economy. But I’m skeptical because lifting the moratorium late or in name only will continue the damage it’s causing to the Gulf. The moratorium needs to end now because each day our rigs are idle we lose American energy jobs and small businesses struggle to survive.” Brady, a senior Member of the House Ways & Means Committee, challenges Michael Bromwich’s assertion that a de facto moratorium isn’t continuing in the shallow waters of the Gulf. “Few new drilling permits are being granted in the shallow waters today. If the deep water ban is lifted, but no permits are issued, then the rigs remain idle and job losses will mount.” Congressman Brady encourages Texans to weigh in with the Administration and their Member of Congress on how the ban is impacting them. Michael Bromwich, Director of the Department of Interior’s Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (formally known as the Minerals Management Service, or MMS), is holding a series of public meetings this month and next in cities throughout the United States, including in Houston in September, to hear from Americans about their views on the Gulf drilling ban. Members of the public can submit comments through September 17th through this web address: http://dsusa02.degreesearchusa.com/t.pl/000000A/http/www.boemre.gov/forums/
08.04.2010	Washington, D.C. - Just days after House Democratic leaders touted their new report, titled Understanding the Economy: Promising Signs of Recovery in Manufacturing, which share: f t 571,000 fewer manufacturing jobs since Democrat stimulus passed Washington, D.C. - Just days after House Democratic leaders touted their new report, titled Understanding the Economy: Promising Signs of Recovery in Manufacturing, which claims credit for creating 136,000 manufacturing jobs since January, House GOP leaders unveiled economic data from the administration that contradicts the claim - and shows manufacturing jobs in the U.S. have cratered since the controversial $862 billion stimulus package was passed at the urging of President Obama."Since the failed stimulus was passed 707,000 manufacturing jobs in America have disappeared," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "It's been even harder on manufacturing workers since Nancy Pelosi became Speaker of the House - 2.3 million manufacturing jobs have been lost. With so many families struggling, how can Washington Democrats possibly be proud of these devastating economic failures?" “With the American people asking, ‘where are the jobs’ and Washington Democrats trying out new talking points on manufacturing, it’s worth looking at their record – and that record is abysmal: more than 700,000 manufacturing jobs have been destroyed in America since the trillion-dollar ‘stimulus’ became law," said House Majority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio). "The Washington spending spree President Obama has set in motion isn’t helping our economy; it’s hurting our economy. Now, Washington Democrats refuse to rule out passing even more job-killing policies – like a national energy tax, or a ‘card check’ for union bosses – in a ‘sour grapes’ lame duck session following the election.”According to Bureau of Labor Statistics data, the net loss of manufacturing jobs since the stimulus became law in February of last year totals 571,000. Even the small growth in manufacturing jobs since January isn't the result of the stimulus. Economists credit inventory restocking and exports to other countries as the main reason for improved signs in the manufacturing sector."Washington Democrats promised that massive government borrowing-and-spending would spur consumer spending in the U.S. That hasn't happened. Ironically it is sales abroad that are helping revive America's flagging manufacturing sector. That must be especially embarrassing for Washington Democrats since they refuse to pursue trade agreements that open dynamic new markets for American products and services throughout the globe," says Brady.
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - A second straight quarter of disappointing economic news is causing many Americans to question President Obama's economic leadership, says the top share: f t GOP Economic Leader Wonders “Is This As Good As It Gets?” Washington, D.C. - A second straight quarter of disappointing economic news is causing many Americans to question President Obama’s economic leadership, says the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. New Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates show 2.4% growth in the second quarter of the year – which follows a first quarter where economic growth dropped substantially. “The Obama recovery, however brief it was, is clearly stalling out. Apparently last Christmas was the high water mark for the country as far as economic growth. Families who are struggling and businesses anxious to get out of these doldrums have to be wondering 'is this as good as it gets for America’s recovery',” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). Since the fourth quarter of 2009, when the economy grew 5.0%. America’s economy has fallen back to into an anemic mid-two percent growth range. At that slow pace it will take much of the decade to return the unemployment rate to pre-recession numbers. “There is a reason 90% of the American people feel the economy is in bad shape and most believe it won’t get better anytime soon. Perhaps the president needs to rethink his deficits don’t matter, anti-business economic policy that is frightening consumers and discouraging businesses from hiring workers.”
07.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) stood with the hundreds of thousands of workers, small businesses and families on the Gulf share: f t Shuns Job Killing CLEAR ActWashington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) stood with the hundreds of thousands of workers, small businesses and families on the Gulf Coast who shunned the CLEAR Act as yet another muddy bureaucratic mess that will raise taxes and kill jobs. "I don't know how any members of Congress from Texas -- or another other Gulf state -- could look their constituents in the eye and still vote for this terrible bill," said Brady who led a floor battle to end the Gulf Drilling Moratorium."Today, every member of the House of Representatives went on the record with the nine million American energy workers whose jobs are on the line. The real truth of the matter is a vote for the CLEAR Act was a vote to send rigs and jobs overseas." Brady did not support a Democrat's moratorium amendment that came with strings attached, because when government strings are attached, delays become de facto moratoriums. "I can't support a measure that will lead to fed up companies taking our jobs elsewhere," he added. Republicans offered a clean up or down vote to end the moratorium instead. "This August, I hope every member of Congress who voted for this travesty has to explain it to an energy worker," said Brady. "It would not surprise me if the men and women who produce energy here in America pack every town hall asking why their jobs are less important than auto-workers, government employees, and those in other industry that have gotten help from the taxpayers."
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - As the U.S. House rushes sweeping oil spill legislation to the floor ahead of its August vacation, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady share: f t Brady Moves to Strike Provisions that Kill Energy Jobs, Delay Exploration & Drive Independents Out of GulfWashington, D.C. - As the U.S. House rushes sweeping oil spill legislation to the floor ahead of its August vacation, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is vigorously fighting the measure and preparing amendments to strip the CLEAR Act of its most damaging provisions."The same Congress that barely knows the difference between oil and natural gas has suddenly become overnight experts on offshore drilling?", asks Brady. "At its heart this is another attempt to rush a sweeping bill through Congress that no one understands but whose consequences will drive American companies out of the Gulf, delay future drilling and kill tens of thousands of good paying American energy jobs, many of them in Texas.""Coming on top of the devastating drilling moratorium, this legislation is a thinly disguised permanent roadblock to future Gulf energy production. If you long for higher fuel prices, more imported oil from nations that hate us and sweetheart deals for union bosses, you'll love this bill."A recent study by IHS Global Insight projects that 300,000 energy jobs in the Gulf and $147 billion in local, state and federal tax revenues would be lost if independent energy companies are driven from the Gulf - which Brady predicts will occur if the CLEAR Act becomes law. Brady, who still awaits a response from the White House on his invitation to President Obama to travel to Houston to meet with energy workers and businesses whose livelihoods are threatened by the drilling moratorium, will offer amendments to strike the most onerous provisions which include:- unlimited liability for economic damages which would force independent producers out of Gulf exploration;- the so-called Build America union provision mandating U.S. flagged rigs, which would drive up exploration costs and drive existing rigs out of the Gulf;- a new $34.2 billion energy tax on U.S. produced oil but not on foreign oil, increasing fuel costs while favoring foreign oil; and- forcing companies to renegotiate legal existing royalty agreements which Clinton administration lawyers bungled.
07.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - Four months after U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi famously declared "We have to pass the bill so you can find out share: f t UPDATED CHART SHOWS OBAMACARE'S BEWILDERING COMPLEXITYWashington, D.C. - Four months after U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi famously declared "We have to pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it,"a congressional panel has released the first chart illustrating the 2,801 page health care law President Obama signed into law in March. Developed by the Joint Economic Committee minority, led by U.S Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas and Rep. Kevin Brady of Texas, the detailed organization chart displays a bewildering array of new government agencies, regulations and mandates. "For Americans, as well as Congressional Democrats who didn’t bother to read the bill, this first look at the final health care law confirms what many fear, that reform morphed into a monstrosity of new bureaucracies, mandates, taxes and rationing that will drive up health care costs, hurt seniors and force our most intimate health care choices into the hands of Washington bureaucrats,"said Brady, the committee’s senior House Republican. "If this is what passes for health care reform in America, then God help us all."Brownback, the committee’s ranking member, added, "This updated chart illustrates the overwhelming expansion of government control over health choices and the bewildering complexity facing everyone affected by this law. It doesn’t take long to see how the recently signed health care bill causes a hugely expensive and explosive expansion of federal control over health care. Personal choices that should be between a doctor and a patient will quickly be strangled in a never ending web of bureaucracy."Senate Steering Committee Chairman Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) called Obamacare "a bureaucratic nightmare. The Democrats’ takeover of health care creates a byzantine network of 159 new federal programs and bureaucracies to make decisions that should be between just the patient and their doctor. It should concern everyone that at the center of this regulatory web is the new CMS chief, Donald Berwick, who has championed rationing and European socialized medicine. Americans were rightly outraged that this big government bill was rushed through Congress before anyone read or fully understood the bill’s consequences. Republicans will fight to repeal this reckless takeover and to ensure health care freedom to American families." In addition to capturing the massive expansion of government and the overwhelming complexity of new regulations and taxes, the chart portrays:$569 billion in higher taxes;$529 billion in cuts to Medicare;swelling of the ranks of Medicaid by 16 million;17 major insurance mandates; andthe creation of two new bureaucracies with powers to impose future rationing: the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute and the Independent Payments Advisory Board.Brady admits committee analysts could not fit the entire health care bill on one chart. "This portrays only about one-third of the complexity of the final bill. It’s actually worse than this."Press PacketDownload Chart (PDF format)
07.20.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is still waiting to hear back from the White House on his earlier invitation to President share: f t President Collecting Campaign Cash in Houston Next Month, But Refuses to Meet with Energy Workers at Risk of Losing Jobs to MoratoriumWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is still waiting to hear back from the White House on his earlier invitation to President Obama to visit Houston to meet with Texas energy workers who are at risk of losing their jobs due to the President’s moratorium on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Upon learning the President is traveling to Houston August 9th to raise campaign cash for the Democratic Party, he issued this statement:“How misplaced can this President’s priorities be? He doesn’t have time to save our local jobs or simply come to Houston to meet our energy workers face-to-face to see how damaging his drilling moratorium is on their families and businesses, but he has plenty of time to fill his party’s political pockets with special interest cash.Mr. President, can’t you spare just an hour to meet with real American workers facing the unemployment line due to your moratorium? How about just 15 minutes? That’s not asking too much to save U.S. jobs.”
07.19.2010	Washington, D.C. - "Progress on one crisis, none on Gulf coast jobs," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands). "The temporary cap on the share: f t Drilling Moratorium is putting 170,000 workers jobs at risk in already down economyWashington, D.C. - "Progress on one crisis, none on Gulf coast jobs," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands). "The temporary cap on the well means we have taken a significant step in helping our coastal environment recover, but I fear that the economic disaster this administration is blindly causing with its moratorium will take generations to recover from." Offshore energy development supports about 170,000 good-paying American jobs -- half of which are jobs in industries that support energy production. "President Obama needs to reverse course before more American jobs set sail. It was the brightest minds in the industry coupled with the most advanced technology on the planet that capped the well in the Gulf -- not government. This is why I keep challenging the President and Secretary Salazar to end their moratorium and protect U.S. energy independence. This is a jobs issue, not a partisan one. Even Senator Mary Landrieu (D-Louisiana) wrote of the moratorium: "That's like closing 12 large motor vehicle assembly plants in one state, all at once." This isn't just a Gulf Coast issue, either. An IADC study of nearly 12,000 offshore workers found them spread across 68 percent of the country."This is nothing less than an American jobs and American energy independence issue, period," added Brady. "This is why I wrote President Obama last week inviting him to come meet with energy workers. Unfortunately, I have only heard silence from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue."
07.14.2010	Washington, D.C. - The White House's quarterly report on stimulus job creation should receive a Pulitzer Prize for fiction. "By a wide margin, the share: f t House Economic Leader says White House Stimulus Report fails to meet Benchmarks Washington, D.C. - The White House's quarterly report on stimulus job creation should receive a Pulitzer Prize for fiction. "By a wide margin, the White House failed to meet its own benchmarks for successful job creation," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Fifteen million Americans are without jobs or much hope for finding one. They know the stimulus failed and they deserve better than this piece of fiction."The White House economic team promised that their stimulus would lower unemployment to 8 percent, that millions would be back to work by the end of this year because there would be 137 million jobs -- 90 percent of which would be created in the private sector. "Beyond the cherry-picked economic studies and and some wildly exaggerated job creation claims, the White House clearly doesn't want to address the harsh reality that their stimulus didn't work." added Brady.Ninety percent of Americans in a new poll said they believed this economy is in bad shape and three out of four didn't see it getting any better. "Americans see the stimulus as costing the country 3.3 million private sector jobs not creating or saving them," concluded Brady.
07.13.2010	Washington, D.C. - The Obama Administration has lost two rounds in the courts, but that isn't stopping them from pushing the restart button to share: f t Sending our rigs and jobs overseas will devastate Gulf coast economy and drive up energy pricesWashington, D.C. - The Obama Administration has lost two rounds in the courts, but that isn't stopping them from pushing the restart button to try to run out the clock on the energy industry. "By thumbing their noses at the federal courts, the Obama Administration appears determined to shut down drilling in the Gulf of Mexico," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "This devastating economic decision will send our rigs and jobs overseas and they won't magically reappear in the Gulf on December first."Tens of thousands of Americans earn their livelihoods as Gulf coast energy workers and many are seeing their job loss fears become a harsh reality as rigs begin leaving the Gulf of Mexico because of the administration's determination to ban drilling. "If this latest drilling ban lasts until December, it will cripple the Gulf coast economy, severely damage American energy infrastructure and drive up future energy prices," said Brady.The administration is seeking to dismiss the original lawsuit, while withholding permits in all waters and reissuing the drilling ban a federal judge found unjustified and overbroad. "Sadly, this White House's ideological arrogance appears to know no bounds, their efforts to continue to delay production of American energy are turning an environmental disaster into an economic disaster," added Brady.
07.09.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady applauds the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals decision to keep the deepwater drilling ban from being implemented during share: f t 5th Circuit Rejects Obama’s Appeal on Drilling MoratoriumWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady applauds the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals decision to keep the deepwater drilling ban from being implemented during the appeals process:"It's the hard working men and women of the Gulf Coast not the federal government that will suffer “irreparable injury” if this ban persists. Every day that goes by without this ban being permanently lifted is another day rigs sit idle and more American energy workers -- and the small businesses that support them -- face losing their livelihoods. The more the public understands the true impact of this ban, the more they dislike it."
07.02.2010	Washington, D.C. - The national jobless rate dipped slightly in June to 9.5%, but the U.S. lost 125,000 jobs last month as the Census share: f t Stimulus failed to jumpstart economy or restore consumer confidence, says House economic leaderWashington, D.C. - The national jobless rate dipped slightly in June to 9.5%, but the U.S. lost 125,000 jobs last month as the Census Bureau shed 225,000 temporary workers undercutting President Obama’s “Summer of Recovery” campaign to convince a skeptical American public of the benefits of last year’s massive stimulus bill. Private sector employment added an anemic 83,000 jobs while the long term unemployed – those out of work six months or longer – remained at 6.8 million. While the unemployment rate fell, it fell for the wrong reason, a precipitous drop of 652,000 in the labor force. The number of discouraged and other marginally attached workers that have stopped actively seeking jobs rose to 2.6 million, an all-time series high. "Americans don't see an economy in recovery, they see a White House seemingly incapable of protecting our beaches or getting people back to work,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Consumer confidence is flagging because families are frightened by dangerous deficits as far as the eye can see. Businesses are slow to hire because they fear higher taxes, job killing regulation and a dysfunctional Washington that is ideologically driven and increasingly anti-business.“So much for the President’s promise that he would jumpstart the economy and restore consumer confidence if Congress simply passed his $862 billion stimulus nearly 18 months ago,” added Brady. “Most taxpayers would like their money back…or at least their job back.”
07.01.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement before voting against the $75 billion Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R. 4899): "Our share: f t Democrats force late night vote on pork-filled Troop Funding BillWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement before voting against the $75 billion Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R. 4899): "Our troops deserve better. The only thing the vast majority of the provisions in this bill have in common is they add to the deficit and they don't support our troops. Our troops get less than half of the funding while more than $60 billion is piled onto our already record deficit for more bailouts, pet projects and international aid. Holding our troops hostage for special interest spending we can't afford is shameless and shameful."
06.24.2010	Washington, D.C. - As the White House continues its ban on deepwater drilling in the Gulf, a bipartisan group of lawmakers is proposing an share: f t Washington, D.C. - As the White House continues its ban on deepwater drilling in the Gulf, a bipartisan group of lawmakers is proposing an interim step that would satisfy concerns about further spills while protecting approximately three-fourths of the jobs associated with oil and gas production in the Outer Continental Shelf.In a letter sent to Secretary Salazar today, 24 lawmakers - led by Texas Reps. Kevin Brady (R-Woodlands) and Gene Green (D-Houston) - proposed allowing low-risk development and appraisal wells to go forward while the Department of Interior continues its assessment on deepwater exploratory wells. Earlier this week a Louisiana federal judge struck down the moratorium, but Administration officials have vowed to appeal. "We believe a critical distinction has been overlooked. Different wells present different levels of risk," the letter stated and also noted that while historically safe, the highest risk occurs during the initial drilling of exploration wells – five of which are impacted by the moratorium. The other twenty-eight impacted wells in the Gulf are development and appraisal wells which carry much smaller, minimal risk as the parameters of the known reservoir are already defined."This modification to the moratorium will address the Administration's call for safe and secure drilling, protect an estimated 75% of the jobs that could be lost under the existing deepwater moratorium and help prevent future energy supply shortages in years 2011 and 2012," say Brady and Green. The bipartisan group of lawmakers also urged the Department of Interior to consider indicating now that U.S. deepwater lease terms will be extended consistent with not just the length of the moratorium but the resulting delay in returning the rig to the OCS and its lease site. This request recognizes that deepwater rigs would not be able to return to production in the Gulf for an additional two to three years after the moratorium expires."This action will ensure that companies continue the major financial investments that permit successful energy production in the United States," wrote the lawmakers who are concerned the Gulf Coast could suffer the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, $2 billion in wages and the bankruptcies of small and mid-sized businesses who support energy production in the Gulf's deep water.Signing the letter are: Rep. Kevin Brady (TX-08), Rep. Gene Green (TX-29), Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX), Rep. Pete Olson (TX-22), Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Rep. Chet Edwards (TX-17), Rep. Louie Gohmert (TX-01), Rep. Gregg Harper (MS-03), Rep. Michael Conaway (TX-11), Rep. Joe Barton (TX-06), Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03), Rep. Lamar Smith (TX-21), Rep. Ron Paul (TX-14), Rep. John Carter (TX-31), Rep. Pete Sessions (TX-32), Rep. John Culberson (TX-07), Rep. Mac Thornberry (TX-13), Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12), Rep. Trent Franks (AZ-02), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (TX-05), Rep. Ralph Hall (TX-04), Rep. Michael Burgess (TX-26), Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), Rep. Rodney Alexander (LA-05)Click here to read the full letter
06.24.2010	Washington, D.C. - DISCLOSE Act is a Suppression of Free Speech Act that weakens our 1st Amendment Rights Washington, DC – A controversial, and some share: f t Washington, D.C. - DISCLOSE Act is a Suppression of Free Speech Act that weakens our 1st Amendment Rights Washington, DC – A controversial, and some say unconstitutional, measure to limit the free speech rights of certain groups passed narrowly in the U.S. House of Representatives today with last minute arm twisting by Speaker Nancy Pelosi.The DISCLOSE Act, opposed by 438 First Amendment, civil rights, environmental and business associations, bans political speech close to elections by certain groups while carving out huge exemptions for other special interest lobbies.Politically connected labor unions, for example, will be able to secretly transfer campaign cash among their affiliates without publicly reporting their actions while the National Rifle Association, AARP and a few select lobby groups are granted greater free speech rights than others. The measure was rushed to the floor in response to a recent Supreme Court decision that struck down as unconstitutional a federal law that granted certain businesses greater First Amendment rights than others."With their blatant assault on the First Amendment and insistence that free speech does not apply to all Americans equally, historians will look back and identify this day as the day Democrats lost all moral authority to govern our nation," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "Any member of Congress who voted for this bill should be ashamed of abandoning the principle of free speech for all and embracing special rights to a favored few - all in a naked grab to maintain power. America, welcome to the new Democratic party."
06.15.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement following the President's Oval Office Address tonight: "The President worked hard to create share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement following the President's Oval Office Address tonight:"The President worked hard to create an appearance of competence in this crisis, but the oil washing up on the shores of the Gulf Coast tell the true story. "Like others I'm angry at the environmental and economic damage in the Gulf from the spill, but I am equally angry at how cavalierly the President dismisses the tens of thousands of jobs that will be lost and small businesses that will go under as a direct consequence of the White House's ill-conceived six-month moratorium on drilling. After stringent inspections of the 33 rigs the moratorium should be lifted until the specific cause of the Deep Horizon blow-out is known. "I do agree with the President that the people deserve to know the truth but I fear the White House commission will be a white wash. I'll go the President one better and call for a truly independent commission to investigate the government's role in the spill. From the Obama Administration's approval of the operating waivers and oil spill recovery plans to the operation of MMS during the past three and a half years under the budget control of a Democratic Congress, the public deserves to know if the federal government and Congress was asleep at the wheel as it appears they were."
06.04.2010	Washington, D.C. - In yet another mixed Employment Report, the unemployment rate dipped to 9.7% in May while the percent of unemployed who have share: f t Economic Leader sees an "obvious problem" with Washington's tax and spend policiesWashington, D.C. - In yet another mixed Employment Report, the unemployment rate dipped to 9.7% in May while the percent of unemployed who have been out of work for 6 month or longer reached an all time record with 46%. The economy added 431,000 jobs in May with the help of 411,000 temporary Census jobs compared to 41,000 jobs in the private sector. However, these temporary Census jobs will disappear within weeks. "A sustained economic recovery isn't built on temporary Census jobs that disappear in eight weeks," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "American businesses and consumers must drive a strong economic recovery. They remain hesistant given the frightening levels of federal debt and Congress pursuing a job-killing agenda of higher taxes, more costly energy and crushing new regulation."America's gross national debt reached a record $13 trillion this week, signaling that runaway spending threatens America's future as its debt levels are increasingly comparable to that of Greece. "This subpar recovery has left 15 million Americans without work, 6.8 million of which have been unemployed for more than half a year," added Brady. "This is simply unacceptable. Washington's tax and spend policies are hindering America's recovery at the cost of future generations."
05.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - As the U.S. Treasury Department is likely to announce today that the gross federal debt of America has reached a staggering share: f t Federal Debt Reaches $13 trillion; new report shows Democrats Twice as CulpableWashington, D.C. - As the U.S. Treasury Department is likely to announce today that the gross federal debt of America has reached a staggering $13 trillion, a new analysis by the Joint Economic Committee undercuts claims by Democrats that they are the party of fiscal responsibility.A breakdown of spending by Congress under control of each party shows that since 1946 Democrats have created twice as much debt as Congressional Republicans – 65 percent to 32 percent."Democrats like to blame Bush, Reagan and anyone else for this staggering debt but now the issue is settled. Democrats are squarely to blame for generating two-thirds of the federal debt that American families must now repay through higher taxes or a slower economy," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.The analysis, prepared by the Joint Economic Committee minority staff, focused on the party in control of Congress since the legislative branch, not the President, holds the spending purse strings. Eighteen percent of the total spending occurred when control was shared by both parties."America's debt now equals a whopping 83 percent of our economy and will grow to 107 percent by 2020 if the Obama budget is adopted," noted Brady. "Unless we stop Congressional Democrats and President Obama from spending us even deeper into debt, future generations of Americans will be dragging an anchor of debt that will drown their dreams and cripple our nation’s prosperity."
05.25.2010	Washington, D.C. - Often preyed upon by false advertisers, Texas' elderly will soon see another deceptive brochure headed their way courtesy of the federal share: f t Deceptive HHS Mailer Hides $500 billion in Medicare Cuts that Hurt Seniors, says BradyWashington, D.C. - Often preyed upon by false advertisers, Texas' elderly will soon see another deceptive brochure headed their way courtesy of the federal government.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady is warning Texas seniors that a new Medicare brochure, heading to mail boxes this week, hides the new Obama health care plan's nearly $500 billion in Medicare cuts. "The truth of the matter is this brochure is dangerously misleading," said Brady. "Many Texas seniors will be forced off their Medicare Advantage plans. They will also pay more for prescription drugs and have less access to local doctors and critical care that they receive from community hospitals, nursing homes, home health care and local hospice." "If the federal government was covered by the Deceptive Trade Practices Act, then some staff at the Department of Health and Human Services might need a lawyer soon," Brady added.The brochure cites 'improvements' to Medicare Advantage plans and long term health care. However, according to the Congressional Budget Office, millions of seniors will be forced out of their Medicare Advantage plans under the new law, Medicare drug prices will increase as costs are shifted onto the 90 percent of seniors who don’t fall into the so called “donut hole” and the new long-term care program - the CLASS Act – is so flawed it may never even get off the ground. "It's bad enough taxpayers have to foot the cost of this very slanted promotional piece, but our seniors who will be hurt by the new Obama plan deserve the truth, not more deception," said Brady.
05.07.2010	Washington, D.C. - In a very mixed Employment Report, the unemployment rate rose to 9.9% in April and long-term unemployment rose to an all-time share: f t Unemployment rate rises as long term unemployment sets a new record, says BradyWashington, D.C. - In a very mixed Employment Report, the unemployment rate rose to 9.9% in April and long-term unemployment rose to an all-time record high of 6.72 million Americans. Nearly 46% of jobless Americans have been out of work for more than half a year now even as U.S. economy added 290,000 jobs in April with the help of 66,000 temporary Census jobs. "A painfully slow job recovery is better than no recovery, but for the nearly 15 million Americans out of work who are waiting for Washington Democrats to finally focus on jobs, this report has got to be disheartening," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "At this slow pace it will take much of the decade to return to normal employment levels.""Consumers and businesses are increasingly concerned that runaway government spending and dangerous levels of debt could lead America down the path on which Greece has now found itself. Further hindering America's recovery are small businesses reluctant to hire workers while Congress is demanding new taxes, higher energy prices and more expensive health care costs. Right now Washington is standing firmly in the way of America's recovery."
04.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement on H.R. 2499: "Puerto Rico is an important U.S. terroritory that enjoys remarkable leadership under share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement on H.R. 2499: "Puerto Rico is an important U.S. terroritory that enjoys remarkable leadership under Governor Luis Fortuno, but with 16 million Americans out of work I question if this should be the top priority of Congress. Should Puerto Rico seek statehood, I encourage them to follow the models of Alaska and Hawaii who first started with a referendum of their own rather than one designed by Congress."
04.30.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Department share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Department of Commerce announced a 3.2% rise (seasonally adjusted annual rate) in the first quarter 2010 gross domestic product (GDP) estimate:"The first quarter GDP numbers confirm that the American economy is only creeping out of the recession. Rather than experiencing strong, robust growth, American businesses continue to restock their shelves while waiting on an unstable Congress and populist White House to move out of their way."Business inventories accounted for nearly half of the 1st quarter growth. While real final sales, a better measure of the underlying economic trend, increased by 1.7 percent - indicating that growth is unlikely to be strong enough to significantly reduce unemployment over the next several quarters. "Drastic spending bills and out-of control budgets continue to frighten American consumers," added Brady. "Our economy will continue to experience sluggish growth until our government loosens its grasp on American businesses."
04.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - Less that a month after the President signed the new health care law, the Administration's own analysis proves the President and share: f t Report: Health Care Costs Will Rise & 7 Million Seniors Will Lose Current Medicare CoverageWashington, D.C. - Less that a month after the President signed the new health care law, the Administration's own analysis proves the President and Capitol Hill Democrats have been misleading Americans on what's really in this law. Among the most glaring findings in the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) analysis, 7,000,000 seniors will lose their current Medicare coverage (including up to one million Texans) and health care costs will increase by $311 billion eating up to 21% of our Gross Domestic Product in the first ten years. "This report confirm the fears of the majority of Americans: they will pay more for health care and lose the plans they like," said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "Regardless of how much our seniors may like their Medicare Advantage plans, roughly half won't be able to keep them." Other CMS findings include: While 18 million will remain uninsured, some 20 million Americans will simply be added to Medicaid at a cost to states of $410 billion. The Community Living Assistance Services and Supports program (CLASS) will run a deficit in just 15 years. The $5 billion for High Risk Pools set aside to cover people with pre-existing conditions, such as chronic illnesses, is a not enough to handle the need. The uninsured and employers who don’t offer coverage will pay $120 billion in new taxes. Some of the Medicare cost-control mechanisms may not be sustainable and the so-called Medicare savings used to make the law seem deficit neutral may be difficult to achieve as doctors leave the program over reductions in Medicare reimbursement. "This report is just another glaring example of why Washington Democrats should not have rushed through this terrible law," concluded Brady
04.02.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy gained 162,000 payroll jobs in the month of March:“The hiring of 48,000 temporary Census workers in March distorts the jobs picture," said Brady, who notes that Census hiring peaks in March, April and May of this year. The temporary Census jobs, which last an average of eight weeks, will take a toll later in the summer jobs reports."While it's encouraging to see recovery in the manufacturing sector, the fact is that nearly 4 million private sector jobs have been lost since President Obama's stimulus was passed. Growth in government jobs, whether temporary Census jobs or at the federal, state and local levels, do not form a confident foundation for sustainable recovery. "Despite vows by the President's economic advisors that 90 percent of stimulus jobs would occur in the private sector, the primary sector of growth has been the federal government, which has grown by 108,000 jobs since February of 2009 when the stimulus was passed by Congress. “The Obama administration has failed by a wide margin to meet their own stimulus standards for putting people back to work. How long do we have to wait to get America back on the right track?"
03.31.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, President Obama announced he will be opening up the vast majority of the Outer Continental Shelf to new exploration, share: f t Washington, D.C. - Today, President Obama announced he will be opening up the vast majority of the Outer Continental Shelf to new exploration, but the devil is in the details. "I'm skeptical," said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "Looking closely at the president's proposal, it will delay more than drill by pushing back leases and delegating drilling decisions in the eastern Gulf of Mexico to a Congress more obsessed with global warming than affordable American-made energy." "With high unemployment, we should be creating 1.2 million new energy jobs by opening up the Outer Continental Shelf today," added Brady. "Instead of 'drill, baby, drill. ' the President is saying 'Stop. Wait. No.'" House Natural Resources Committee Republicans have analyzed the President's plan and found it waits until 2012 to open up only a small percentage of the leases proposed for 2010-2015. It cancels a lease sale off the coast of Virginia that was due to take place next year and reissues the moratorium on the North East Atlantic and the entire Pacific coastline; it blocks drilling in southwestern Alaska's Bristol Bay and only opens up leases in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico if this anti-energy Congress says to do so.
03.29.2010	Washington, D.C. - The top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee is calling into question claims from the Vice President and the share: f t House Economic Leader de bunks White House spin on tax refund numbersWashington, D.C. - The top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee is calling into question claims from the Vice President and the White House economic team that tax refunds are up due to stimulus tax breaks. "With a worsening economy and four million more Americans out of work since the stimulus was enacted last year, fewer Americans are getting tax refunds because there is less income to tax," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) who noted many taxpayers did not adjust tax withholding to reflect their falling income, which generated higher refund checks."Trying to spin people's economic misery as a benefit of the failed stimulus ranks among the top of a growing list of wild claims from Vice President Joe Biden," added Brady.“The Making Work Pay tax credit was reflected in workers paychecks last year, and the remaining tax credits had only a minor impact on refund amounts,” concluded Brady.
03.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - The next ‘mini-stimulus' Democrats in the U.S. House hope to push through this week will do little to create small share: f t A “nothing burger” for small business, says Brady of H.R. 4849Washington, D.C. - The next ‘mini-stimulus’ Democrats in the U.S. House hope to push through this week will do little to create small business jobs and may actually discourage global companies that create jobs to America, says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady.Brady is the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a member of the Ways & Means Committee that approved the measure last week amid partisan disagreement over the controversial tax increases. “From a jobs standpoint for small business, this bill is a nothing burger. In fact, by increasing taxes on global companies that invest and create jobs here in America, this bill may actually kill more jobs than it creates,” said Brady. “We want America to be the place companies choose to put their workers. Why punish them, especially with thousands of Americans without jobs?”The bill abrogates long-standing tax treaties and increases taxes by more than $7.7 billion on global companies with subsidiaries in the United States. The measure also expands Buy American Bonds which are heavily subsidized by federal taxpayers.
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - After weeks of threats and special deals, Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats narrowly approved 220-211 an unpopular health care measure share: f t Disappointed by Passage but Heartened By Texans Speaking OutWashington, D.C. - After weeks of threats and special deals, Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats narrowly approved 220-211 an unpopular health care measure that reshapes one-sixth of America’s economy and expands government into nearly every aspect of the nation’s health care system.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a leading opponent of the measure, made the following statement:“This bill is a terrible mistake, because bigger government doesn’t mean better health care,” said Brady. “But I am inspired and heartened by the tens of thousands of everyday Texans in my district who stood up the past year to make their voices heard and to join with a new generation of Americans who insist that Congress listen to them or risk the consequences.” “To them I say don’t give up, this isn’t over yet. Let’s continue to fight it together, to challenge it at every turn and when the time is right, to repeal it.”
03.21.2010	Washington, D.C. - The government promised you health care. When forced to buy their ‘government approved" plan - or face the tax man - share: f t Floor Remarks: H.R. 4872 Health Care & Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010Washington, D.C. - Please click here for the videoThe government promised you health care.When forced to buy their ‘government approved” plan - or face the tax man - you complied. But the cost didn't go down – it went up. The highest ever. It takes three months just to see a doctor. And when you need care the government plan denies it four times more often than your last insurance company. Now the government's short on money. They've started rationing care – cutting hospital payments, withdrawing coverage from some families. And it's just been three years since it all began.Folks, this isn't the future. This is Massachusetts - today.Higher costs. Slower care. Rationing. That's why Massachusetts said “no” to ObamaCare.I'm saying no, too.Because bigger government doesn't mean better health care.
03.18.2010	Washington, D.C. - The Internal Revenue Service will see its largest expansion since withholding taxes were enacted during WWII to enforce the glut share: f t Largest expansion since WWII means more intrusion into American livesWashington, D.C. - The Internal Revenue Service will see its largest expansion since withholding taxes were enacted during WWII to enforce the glut of new tax mandates and penalties included in the Democrats’ latest health care plan.A new analysis by the Joint Economic Committee and the House Ways & Means Committee minority staff estimates up to 16,500 new IRS personnel will be needed to collect, examine and audit new tax information mandated on families and small businesses in the ‘reconciliation’ bill being taken up by the U.S. House of Representatives this weekend.“When most people think of health care reform they think of more doctors exams, not more IRS exams,” says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “Isn’t the federal government already intruding enough into our lives? We need thousands of new doctors and nurses in America, not thousands more IRS agents.”Scores of new federal mandates and fifteen different tax increases totaling $400 billion are imposed under the Democratic House bill. In addition to more complicated tax returns, families and small businesses will be forced to reveal further tax information to the IRS, provide proof of ‘government approved’ health care and submit detailed sales information to comply with new excise taxes.IRS Power Report (PDF)
03.17.2010	Washington, D.C. - Health Care Video Text of speech: Isn't this troubling? Eight out of ten Americans now believe Congress governs without the share: f t The American people will see to thatWashington, D.C. - Health Care VideoText of speech:Isn't this troubling? Eight out of ten Americans now believe Congress governs without the consent of the governed. The Democratic Congress and White House simply aren't listening.Americans oppose this two trillion dollar takeover of health care - but Democrats are ramming it through over the public’s objections.Americans oppose the tax increases, mandates, deficits, Medicare cuts and government interference in their most intimate health care decisions – but House Democrats arrogantly claim they know what’s best for you.Americans want open, honest government, but Democrats are cutting back room deals, pressuring members of Congress, proclaiming bills passed without a vote of the House - all to circumvent the will of the American people.Americans want Washington to start over immediately, to go back to the basics, to have a step-by-step bi-partisan bill that focuses first on lowering health care costs. So Madame Speaker, why aren’t you listening? Know this: A Congress that governs in secrecy and arrogance will not govern long. The American people will see to that.
03.16.2010	Washington, D.C. - Brady and State Sen. Williams talk about TX impact of gov't run health care share: f t State Senator Williams comes to Capitol Hill to break the bad news to Congress Washington, D.C. - Brady and State Sen. Williams talk about TX impact of gov't run health care
03.12.2010	Washington, D.C. - As spring approaches, temperatures are on the rise, but consumer confidence is still falling, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of share: f t House economic leader says kick budget busting hallmarks to the curbWashington, D.C. - As spring approaches, temperatures are on the rise, but consumer confidence is still falling, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan monthly survey.“Consumers have too much to worry about," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "Not only are they worried about their own bank account; they’re scared to death about the federal government’s.”“This uncertainty can be summed up in 8 simple words 'What is Congress going to do to me?'" added Brady who doesn't expect consumers to gain confidence as long as costly government programs like health care reform and cap and trade are still viable threats to their wallets. Brady also noted that consumer sentiment about future conditions also fell this month.
03.11.2010	Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a GOP Deputy Whip and a member of the House Select Committee on Earmark share: f t GOP needs fresh start from spending excesses of the past, says Deputy WhipWashington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a GOP Deputy Whip and a member of the House Select Committee on Earmark Reform, applauded the House Republican Conference for acting to end earmark requests for this Congress. “This is a fresh break from the past. An earmark moratorium, until the abuses can be stopped, is the strongest signal that Republicans understand the spending mistakes of the past and can govern in a fiscally responsible manner in the future,” said Brady, who stopped submitting new earmark requests three years ago. “Local project requests have a place, but earmarks in Washington have simply grown out of control. Even if Democrats don't follow, this moratorium shows we are dead serious about 'rebooting the computer' and cleaning out the junk in the earmark system,” Brady continued.
03.10.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting no on a resolution instructing President Obama to begin share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting no on a resolution instructing President Obama to begin pulling U.S. troops out of Afghanistan:“Our troops overseas and their families back home understand what’s at stake in Afghanistan – ensuring that country will no longer be a safe haven for training, recruiting or financing terrorists determined to kill innocent Americans. These warriors and their loved ones must understand they have 100% of our support to complete their mission and return home safely,” said Brady.
03.05.2010	Washington, D.C. - Earlier this week White House economic spokesman Larry Summers attempted to blame a four-day Washington snow storm for continued job share: f t House Economic Leader says “blizzard of bad policy proposals” holding back economic recoveryWashington, D.C. - Earlier this week White House economic spokesman Larry Summers attempted to blame a four-day Washington snow storm for continued job losses in the February monthly jobs report released today. U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that payroll employment declined by 36,000 during the month of February:“A blizzard of bad policy proposals – higher taxes, health care mandates and dangerous levels of debt – is the real reason businesses are delaying key investment and hiring decisions,” said Brady. “Coupled with consumers concerned about their finances as well as the governments unsustainable finances and you’ve got the answer why this economic recovery is so sluggish.”“The uncertainty in America among job creators and the public is palpable. Jamming the massive health care takeover and another wasteful ‘stimulus’ bill through Congress won’t restore confidence,” continued Brady.
03.04.2010	Washington, D.C. - The Democrat's latest stimulus – aka jobs – bill was tossed out for a quick vote today in the House share: f t To get people back to work, we must pull the plug on bad economic policiesWashington, D.C. - The Democrat's latest stimulus – aka jobs – bill was tossed out for a quick vote today in the House of Representatives and passed by a narrow margin."If the barely one-year old $860 billion stimulus bill created or saved the millions of jobs they claim, why was another stimulus cobbled together in secret and thrown out on the House floor for a vote today?" asked Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee."If this Democratic Congress and White House really wanted to create jobs, they'd stop pushing for massive new entitlement and global warming programs," added Brady. "Instead of overtaxing our job producers, we should be permanently lowering taxes and producing more American energy. Business owners in my district tell me they want Washington to stop doing bad things to their businesses while claiming to do something for them."
02.24.2010	Washington, D.C. - President Obama is going ahead with his plan to hold a day long health care summit with Democrats and Republicans share: f t GOP Truth Squad member says the White House's 'made for TV' moments just aren't cutting it with taxpayersWashington, D.C. - President Obama is going ahead with his plan to hold a day long health care summit with Democrats and Republicans on Thursday, but the real question is, "why?" According to a new USA Today/Gallup Poll, 77% of Americans think nothing will come out of the planned six-hour session and roughly half oppose the Democrats Health Care bill and using reconciliation to pass any part of it.Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a member of the GOP Health Care Truth Squad, said the President showed his cards about this summit on Monday when he released his health care plan which closely mirrors the Senate plan.One new thing the President's plan would do is create powerful new board of bureaucrats. "The President not only completely missed the mark, he fired the arrow into the trees rather that at the target,” said Brady. "“What Americans want is the clean slate we need to finally address the junk lawsuits, fraud, and rising premiums that are choking our small businesses, families and our seniors. Instead, President Obama wants to put even more bureaucrats between patients and their doctors.”Some of the items in the President’s summary plan include allowing tax dollars to pay for elective abortions; raising the so-called Cadillac Health Care Plan tax above the already harsh level set in the Senate Bill; nearly tripling the Employer Mandate Tax; and creating a new Health Insurance Rate Authority to put the government – not the free market – in control of health care prices. "This is a recipe for fewer – not more – health care options for Americans in the future," added Brady who will be one of 17 Republicans on the GOP Leadership's Truth Squad which will be ready to counter any misrepresentations about the Republican's approach, because as Minority Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio) says they have "been listening to the people they were sent to Washington to represent."The 800 pound gorilla in the room is how much will all this cost? However, the Congressional Budget Office can’t answer that question without more information from a White House which seems to think that more taxes and having a board of bureaucrats say no to premium increases will make everything all better.
02.24.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) will soon introduce legislation with fellow Texan Joe Barton to block the Environmental Protection Agency share: f t Brady moving to block agency from killing jobs, driving up energy prices in TexasWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) will soon introduce legislation with fellow Texan Joe Barton to block the Environmental Protection Agency from imposing devastating greenhouse gas restrictions without approval of Congress. The controversial global warming cap and trade proposal has stalled in the Senate as the American public has grown increasingly skeptical of global warming and increasingly vocal against higher energy and fuel costs which will result.“I won’t stand by while unelected bureaucrats try to circumvent the will of the people who strongly oppose this job-killing cap and trade scheme”, said Brady, who fought the bill when House Democrats rushed it through the House this past summer. “The White House has failed to win support by Congress so they are attempting to force it through the back door which will drive up energy prices and kill hundreds of thousands of good paying Texas jobs in energy, chemical manufacturing, paper and steel mills and agriculture.” Brady’s effort to block the EPA is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Manufacturers, American Petroleum Institute, National Association of Homebuilders, FreedomWorks and the Farm Bureau.
02.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - Texas seniors wondering how President Obama's massive health care plan will affect them don't have long to wonder. Cuts last share: f t Double Digit Hikes in Medicare Advantage Premiums "sign of the times" in President’s Health Care PlanWashington, D.C. - Texas seniors wondering how President Obama’s massive health care plan will affect them don’t have long to wonder. Cuts last year by the Democratic Congress to the popular Medicare Advantage plans are driving costs up for seniors – a jump of over 14% for the one million Texas elderly who rely upon these plans."Unfortunately, this is just a sign of the times," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "The deep cuts to Medicare proposed by the White House to pay for their massive health care takeover will drive up the cost to Texas seniors. We are already seeing it in Medicare Advantage, which most Texas seniors will be forced out of if the president’s bill becomes law.”“Increasing the cost of health care on those who have it to give it to those who don’t is the wrong approach, which is why I oppose the president’s plan. We need to lower costs so more Americans can afford health care.”Medicare Advantage premiums are rising 14.2% this year as a result of lower reimbursement by a hostile Democratic Congress – which vows to end the popular program. According to the independent Congressional Budget Office, 660,000 Texas seniors will be forced to choose a different Medicare plan if the massive health care bill goes through.
02.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), both leaders of the Joint Economic Committee, today hosted share: f t Warn that current taxing, spending, borrowing is fiscally irresponsibleWashington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) and U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), both leaders of the Joint Economic Committee, today hosted an economic summit to find solutions to successfully decrease government spending. “Today’s thorough presentations have provided myself, Senator Brownback and other members of Congress with new ideas on how to get America’s economy back on the road to real economic prosperity,” said Brady. “The summit confirmed for us that taxing, spending and borrowing is -- without a doubt -- the wrong way to get us to where we need to be.“As we move forward, we will host similar events that will help us dig deeper into the more technical aspects of our economy in order to ensure that our economy remains the strongest in the world,” added Brady who expressed hope that these summits will help lay the groundwork for Congressional action.Brownback said, “Across the nation, Americans are facing economic hardships and are feeling discouraged. Congress needs to get serious and focus on finding solutions that will work to grow the economy. We need to enact policies that will create jobs, not increase taxes. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass legislation that will jump-start the economy.” Summit panelists included Nobel Prize winning economist Dr. Edward C. Prescott; former Office of Management and Budget Director James C. Miller; Carnegie Mellon University Professor of Political Economy Allan H. Meltzer; and Institute for Research into the Economics of Taxation President Stephen J. Entin. The panelists discussed ideas on how to control federal spending and reform the tax code.Dr. Meltzer said, “This was a great thing to do today. From an economic standpoint, these issues are complex and need to be thought through. Republicans need a plan and today was a great first step in developing that plan.”Mr. Stephen Entin said, “I am glad to see that the Joint Economic Committee is raising issues that need to be raised. This is great, especially because you need to understand these complex issues before you put them into policy.”Dr. Miller said, “Its important for Congress to come to grips with what every American is frightened of, the federal budget.”
02.23.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee today issued the following statement after share: f t Ironic on a day that Labor Department has reported huge mass layoffsWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee today issued the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office reported that the stimulus has created 1 million to 2.1 million since its inception:“While I value all of CBO’s reports, the numbers don’t lie. Since the stimulus has passed we have lost nearly 4 million jobs. The fact is, if you are a government worker you probably got a pay raise from the stimulus, if you are a manufacturing or construction worker you got a pink slip,” said Brady.Brady also noted it was ironic that the report was released the same the U.S. Labor Department reported that mass layoffs rose affecting over 180,000 workers.“I’m concerned that the report overlooks the current negative impact of the stimulus on private investment and consumption because of future higher taxes to pay for this outrageous debt,” Brady concluded.
02.22.2010	Washington, D.C. - Good morning all. I wanted to extend an invitation to a Brownback/Brady economic conference entitled "Return to Prosperity: Creating the Strongest share: f t Washington, D.C. - Good morning all. I wanted to extend an invitation to a Brownback/Brady economic conference entitled "Return to Prosperity: Creating the Strongest Economy of the 21st Century."
02.17.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee today highlighted the utter failure of share: f t More stimulus money to buy artwork than small business assistance shows misplaced prioritiesWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee today highlighted the utter failure of the Obama, Pelosi and Reid stimulus on its one year anniversary:“We were told the stimulus would jump start the economy, lower unemployment and restore consumer confidence. Well here we are a year later and we have lost 4 million jobs and our unemployment has skyrocketed,” said Brady who noted that only 6% of Americans feel that the stimulus created any jobs at all.“The only new jobs we have to show for the hundreds of borrowed billions spent are more government bureaucrat positions, not private sector jobs. There was more money in the stimulus devoted to buying public artwork than in helping small businesses and that’s the opposite direction we should be heading,” Brady continued while noting not one single Republican Member voted for the stimulus.With nearly half of the stimulus funds still remaining, Brady is calling for the unspent funds to be returned to the treasury.
02.16.2010	Washington, D.C. - Veterans are upset with unnecessary delays in the processing of their education benefits causing late tuition payments and potential delays share: f t Washington, D.C. - Veterans are upset with unnecessary delays in the processing of their education benefits causing late tuition payments and potential delays in their academic plans. "Bureaucratic red tape should never delay benefits that our veterans have earned," said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands).“I want veterans to know that our office can assist them with the post 9/11 GI Bill and in other areas related to their benefits,” said Brady who noted that a backlog at the VA has prompted an increase in veterans frustrations with the system.“Our country needs to honor it's obligations to those who have served their country with honor," added Brady.Congressman Brady's district office toll free number is 877-441-5700.
02.10.2010	Washington, D.C. - "Texas has lost a larger than life character who left a Texas-sized impact on the middle east and a large share: f t Washington, D.C. - "Texas has lost a larger than life character who left a Texas-sized impact on the middle east and a large part of my east Texas district," said Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas). "Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Barbara, and the rest of the Wilson family. Rep. Wilson's dedication to the plight of people of the middle east lives on through the Charlie Wilson chair at the University of Texas."
02.05.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy shed 20,000 payroll jobs and unemployment dipped to a 9.7% in the month of January:"Unfortunately, more job losses and a small dip in the unemployment rate due to temporary hiring isn't the foundation of a sustainable recovery. From a jobs standpoint the U.S. continues to bounce along the bottom, falling further behind our competitors in Asia, Europe and Canada as our economic recovery struggles under the weight of poor economic policies,” said Brady. “With monthly unemployment claims rising and an unusually large downward revision of payroll jobs in 2009, the President needs to rethink his economic team, his job-killing budget and his second ‘stimulus’ bill,” continued Brady.
02.04.2010	Share This Video Full text of remarks: Thank you, Madam Speaker. These congressional Democrats just aren't listening. After Massachusetts, voters sent a share: f t Share This VideoFull text of remarks:Thank you, Madam Speaker. These congressional Democrats just aren't listening.After Massachusetts, voters sent a signal on behalf of this country: no more spending, we are too deep in debt but here we go again.And when they sent the signal that governments should be open and people ought to have a say today, they snuck into this bill an increase in the debt limit to make sure there wouldn’t be an embarrassing up or down vote on this bill the way the public demands it to be.When they were in charge it s a different story. As the Majority Leader, highly respected Majority Leader Mr. Steny Hoyer said, "raising the debt limit is immoral." This policy of borrow and spend is not only irresponsible, it's immoral and it must stop. He was exactly right.When our Speaker, again, highly respected Speaker, took that gavel three years ago, the debt limit in America was $29,000 for every man, woman and child. Today, just three years later its $45,000 for each one of you and it's going up and up and up each year.I'll tell you when they say no, no, republicans and democrats share the blame; democrats have incurred twice as much of that debt to date and its going to skyrocket under their control.And what's even more frustrating is with the new president's budget, that deficit is going to triple over future years.I'll finish with this. Pay-go is to fiscal responsibility as what ethics is to the former governor of Illinois, Mr. Blagojevich.Pay-go, since it's been put in place three years ago, our deficits have increased ten fold.I urge defeat of this bill.
02.01.2010	Washington, D.C. - The President spoke about the need to cut spending last week, then turned around and delivered a record breaking $3.8 share: f t Brady calls President's tiny budget cuts "the equivalent of taking a thimble full of water out of a swimming pool"Washington, D.C. - The President spoke about the need to cut spending last week, then turned around and delivered a record breaking $3.8 trillion budget to Capitol Hill. “The spending cuts the President is proposing are so small they are equivalent to taking a thimble full of water out of a swimming pool," said Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "The national debt will still double in the next five years and America's economy will be hobbled by a permanently larger federal government it has to shoulder.""If the President and the Democratic leadership want to show they are serious about getting these dangerous deficits under control, a good place to start is the Spending Reform Act."Brady is author of the Spending Reform Act of 2009 which would cap discretionary spending, impose a new federal sunset law to eliminate wasteful spending, stop earmarks until they are reformed and force Congress to make solvent Medicare and Social Security.
01.29.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Department of Commerce announced a 5.7% rise in the fourth quarter 2009 gross domestic product (GDP) estimate:“The fourth quarter spike reveals how deeply businesses emptied their shelves last year but gives no indication they are confident in bringing workers back or hiring new ones," said Brady. "With the economy expected to sink back to a sluggish 2.8% rate for the remainder of 2010 it probably gives no comfort to American workers that the last three months was the highlight of the Obama recovery for at least another year."America experienced the worst annual economic growth since 1946 last year, and Brady predicts the United States economy will continue to lag behind the recoveries of Asia, parts of Europe and Latin America in 2010."American consumers remain frightened by the dangerous levels of growing government debt. Businesses simply aren't willing to make critical business investment decisions while an unstable Congress and populist White House keep pushing job killing regulation and special interest legislation."
01.28.2010	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Wally Herger (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health, and Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member of the share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Wally Herger (R-CA), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health, and Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Trade, issued the following remarks regarding a letter they sent to President Obama on his changing positions on prescription drug importation:Rep. Herger said, “Since taking office, President Obama has abandoned his campaign promises one by one in a quest to get government-run health care passed by any means necessary and at any cost to the American people, especially seniors. The President's decision to walk away from his support for drug importation in order to secure an endorsement from the drug lobby is among the most disturbing. During the campaign, the President promised full transparency throughout the health care debate, with all Americans having a seat at the table. Unfortunately, the only ones who seem to have had their voices heard are the special interests that made backroom deals with the President. While the issue of prescription drug importation is complex and there are many opinions on the issue, the President and many Democrats in Congress appear to have sacrificed their previous beliefs about what would be best for the American people in exchange for the support of the pharmaceutical industry. I look forward to his explanation as to why important policy decisions that will affect millions of Americans have been determined by secret deals, away from public view.”Rep. Brady commented, “It seems as though while out on the campaign trail you say one thing and now your Administration does another thing. It’s time to stop the backroom deals, follow through with your promises and provide the American people with the transparency you promised and they deserve.”
01.27.2010	Washington, D.C. - Amid news reports that President Obama may use tonight's State of the Union address to tout a spending freeze to share: f t Brady’s Spending Reform Act has been at White House since transitionWashington, D.C. - Amid news reports that President Obama may use tonight’s State of the Union address to tout a spending freeze to help get our economy back on track, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today re-sent his Spending Reform Act to the White House and House Speaker Pelosi's office:“My Spending Reform Act has been in your staff’s possession since your transition team arrived in Washington more than a year ago,” said Brady, the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “Mr. President, if you are actually serious about reducing the deficit and balancing the budget, insist that Speaker Pelosi immediately bring the Spending Reform Act to the House Floor for an up or down vote.”Brady’s Spending Reform Act would freeze all discretionary federal spending for five years, ban earmarks until the process can be reformed, establish a Sunset law to eliminate out-dated and duplicative federal agencies and programs, and force Congress to immediately address the looming crises in Social Security and Medicare.
01.27.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after President share: f t He didn’t pull it off, says BradyWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after President Obama’s first State of the Union Address:“The President, who is a very gifted orator, attempted to re-invent himself as a job creating, deficit cutting champion of open government. He didn’t pull it off because the American people judge him by a year of job losses, dangerous deficits, back room deals and an agenda that frightens most middle class families,” said Brady.“I’m afraid he’s not listening – it’s not about him, it’s about the wrong direction America is headed,” Brady continued.
01.20.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the top House Republican on share: f t A defining moment for Democrats – will they listen to voters or ignore them, asks BradyWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee and the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement after Senate Democrats this afternoon indicated they will likely use “reconciliation” as the means to move health care reform through Congress:“This is a defining moment for President Obama and Congressional Democrats. These leaders can listen to the American public who is telling them this is not the health reform they want, or ignore them and find a back door way to force their huge plan through,” said Brady.“Unfortunately, it appears Congressional Democrats are looking to manipulate the budget rules to get around the current 60-vote rule in the Senate. That tells me they are shutting the voices of voters out – just like they shut them out of the back room negotiations – and are determined to pass this national health care takeover by hook or by crook,” continued Brady. “Instead, they should take a step back, listen to the voters and sit down with Republicans to create a bill that lowers health care costs without the government interfering in our most intimate health care decisions.”
01.19.2010	Washington, D.C. - From Tuesday January 26, 2010 through Thursday January 28, 2010, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's (R-The Woodlands) Mobile Office will once again share: f t January 26 – January 28Washington, D.C. - From Tuesday January 26, 2010 through Thursday January 28, 2010, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's (R-The Woodlands) Mobile Office will once again be on the road throughout District 8.The Mobile Office will stop in 17 local communities so District 8 residents experiencing problems with government programs -- such as Social Security, Medicare, Veterans Benefits, IRS, immigration, passports, etc. -- can meet face to face with Congressional caseworkers. "Anyone who has a problem we may be able help resolve is encouraged to come out," said Brady. For additional information about the mobile office tour, please contact the Conroe District Office toll free at 1-877-441-5700.Full ScheduleTuesday, January 26, 2010Hardin, Orange, Jasper, and Newton Counties 8:00 – 9:00 a.m.Sour Lake (Hardin County)Location: Sour Lake City HallAddress: 655 W Barkley, Sour Lake 9:30 – 10:30 a.m.Silsbee (Hardin County)Location: First Baptist ChurchAddress: 350 Hwy 96 S., Silsbee 11:00 – 12:00 p.m.Lumberton (Hardin County)Location: Lumberton City HallAddress: 836 North Main, Lumberton 12:30 – 1:30 p.m.Vidor (Orange County)Location: Chamber of CommerceAddress: 945 North Main Street, Vidor, TX 2:00 – 3:00 p.m.Buna (Jasper County)Location: Buna Chamber of CommerceAddress: 480 State Highway 62, Buna 4:00 – 5:00 p.m.Newton (Newton County)Location: Newton County CourthouseAddress: 109 Court Street, Newton, Texas Wednesday, January 27, 2010Jasper, Tyler, and Polk Counties 8:00 – 9:00 a.m.Jasper (Jasper County)Location: Jasper County CourthouseAddress: 121 N. Austin, Jasper, Texas 9:30 – 10:30 a.m.Kirbyville (Jasper County)Location: Central Baptist ChurchAddress: 801 S. Margaret Street (HWY 69 South) 12:00 – 1:00 p.m.Woodville (Tyler County)Location: Tyler County CourthouseAddress 100 West Bluff, Woodville 1:30 – 2:30 p.m.Chester (Tyler County)Location: Texas State BankAddress: 113 Cade St., Chester 3:00 – 4:00 p.m.Corrigan (Polk County)Location: Corrigan High SchoolAddress: 504 S. Home Street, Corrigan 4:30 – 5:30 p.m.Livingston (Polk County)Location: Polk County CourthouseAddress: 101 West Church Street, Livingston Thursday, January 28, 2010Walker, Trinity, San Jacinto, and Liberty Counties 8:00 – 9:00 a.m.Riverside (Walker County)Location: DD CenterAddress: FM 980 & SH 19 (next to Riverside Bank) 9:30 – 10:30 a.m.Trinity (Trinity County)Location: “Old Red” Trinity High SchoolAddress: 101 W. Jefferson, Trinity 11:30 – 12:30 p.m.Point Blank (San Jacinto County)Location: City Hall and Community CenterAddress: 101 County Road, Point Blank 1:30 – 2:30 p.m.Shepherd (San Jacinto County)Location: McClain’s Food MarketAddress: US Hwy 59 & TX-223, Shepherd 3:30 – 4:30 p.m.Hardin (Liberty County)Location: Hardin Intermediate School/Administration BuildingAddress: 209 CR 2003, Hardin
01.14.2010	Washington, D.C. - The White House and union leaders joined forces today to exempt union workers from a planned 40% excise tax on share: f t Non-Union Workers will pay new health plan taxes, Union members will notWashington, D.C. - The White House and union leaders joined forces today to exempt union workers from a planned 40% excise tax on certain high value health care plans. According to the Congressional Budget Office, one in every five workers would have to pay this tax within three years and within six years it would affect middle class households with annual incomes of $50,000."In order to pay for their planned takeover of the U.S. health care system, this so-called deal punishes Texas and 21 other ‘right-to-work’ states," said Congressman Kevin Brady, the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.According to Americans for Limited Government: "Immediately, [the tax] will have three impacts: 1) Health benefits will be cut as many insurers and employers stop providing such plans that were once affordable; 2) Of those plans not cancelled, the costs will be passed on to the insured, raising premiums; and 3) This new Health Care Penalty Tax will be used in Right-to-Work states as a backdoor method to forcing workers to join unions, since union dues would be less than the tax.""It is appalling to me that this White House and union bosses have struck a back-room deal to strong arm the 90% of Americans who don't belong to unions into either paying more health care taxes or joining a union," Brady added.
01.13.2010	Washington, D.C. - The White House today tried to stem overwhelming public skepticism of their massive stimulus program by claiming two million jobs share: f t No longer “saved or created,” credit claimed for jobs merely “funded”Washington, D.C. - The White House today tried to stem overwhelming public skepticism of their massive stimulus program by claiming two million jobs were “funded” – a retreat from earlier discredited claims that a million jobs have been “saved or created.”The quarterly report released last night by the President's Council of Economic Advisers' drew a quick rebuke by the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas.“Like former President Bill Clinton famously stated, I guess it depends on what the definition of a job is,” said Brady. “From exaggerated claims to fake jobs in fake congressional districts, these stimulus reports have lost all credibility. The White House still doesn’t understand that American families are frightened by the growing federal debt and local businesses are hesitant to hire back or add new workers while Congress pursues its extreme agenda of higher health care costs, higher taxes and higher energy prices.” “The only thing accurate about the figure of two million,” says Brady, “is that it represents the number of Americans who have simply given up and no longer look for work since the stimulus began.”
01.09.2010	Washington, D.C. - Following the release of e-mails revealing the New York Federal Reserve's apparent efforts to suppress disclosure to federal regulators of share: f t Urges Treasury Secretary testify as lead witnessWashington, D.C. - Following the release of e-mails revealing the New York Federal Reserve's apparent efforts to suppress disclosure to federal regulators of AIG bank payments during the financial crisis, the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee is calling for a Joint Economic Hearing into the matter - with Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner as the lead witness. In a letter to Democratic Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney of New York, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) urges that Geithner testify before the committee and that Congress determine his "knowledge and complicity in the furtive efforts to discourage full disclosure to the SEC" of AIG payments to its banking counterparties. "Given that Tim Geithner insisted on the sweetheart deals to the banks through AIG its not a stretch to believe he wanted them concealed, especially as he went through his vetting process in the Senate," says Brady, who has called on the Treasury Secretary to resign for his failures as leader of economic recovery for the Obama Administration. Brady says lawmakers should be concerned that this continues a pattern of lack of transparency by Geithner. The special inspector of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) has repeatedly criticized the Treasury Department for rejecting recommendations for more public transparency of TARP funds and for paying 100 cents on the dollar to AIG counterparties for nearly worthless credit-default swaps - a directive that cost taxpayers billions of dollars.
01.08.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy shed 85,000 payroll jobs and remained at a 10% unemployment rate in the month of December:“With another 85 thousand jobs lost in December, the pace of recovery is disappointing. The unprecedented spending spree by the Obama administration is clearly not producing the strong growth and job creation that normally occurs after such a severe recession,” said Brady. “By contrast, America's economy continues to sputter while our competitors - Australia, South Korea, Canada, Japan and some of the European Union nations - enjoy lower unemployment rates," Brady noted.
01.06.2010	Washington, D.C. - Local voters are very worried about the direction America is headed and are frightened by the unprecedented level of Washington spending, share: f t Eight of Ten "Frightened" by Level of Washington SpendingWashington, D.C. - Local voters are very worried about the direction America is headed and are frightened by the unprecedented level of Washington spending, according to the results of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's annual Issues Survey released today. Nearly 250,000 homes in east and southeast Texas were sent the survey which was included in the congressman's annual Capitol Update newsletter in mid-November."What stood out this year is how strongly my communities reject the agenda the new Congress and White House are trying to push through," said Brady. "Our voters don't buy that stimulus spending has helped the economy or that a public option will lower health care costs. And they overwhelmingly oppose the global warming cap-and-trade scheme championed by the President."In the survey, eight of ten respondents said they are "very worried" about the direction America is headed. A similar number describe the amount of Washington spending as "frightening."Adding to voter frustration, 95% believe that "as taxpayers Washington is not listening" to them.In the one bright spot, 85% of those surveyed felt Congress should enact Congressman Brady's Spending Reform Act which caps federal spending, reforms earmarks, sunsets wasteful programs and forces Congress to make Medicare and Social Security solvent."Clearly there is a huge disconnect between the new Democratic government in Washington and local Texas families," warned Brady. "Washington needs to stop all the dangerous spending and big government solutions and start listening to middle-class Americans."Full results are attached.
01.06.2010	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in share: f t Brady says the American people should be allowed to watch the takeover of their health care systemWashington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement today in support of C-SPAN's request to televise all health care reform negotiations:“No more backroom deals, no more hidden paybacks in exchange for votes. I strongly support C-SPAN's request to televise these critical negotiations. While the American people continue to speak out loudly against government bureaucrats making their intimate health care decisions, the Democrats who control Congress prefer to shut the conference room doors and break President Obama's campaign promise that all health care negotiations be televised on C-SPAN. That is why I implore all my colleagues - on both sides of the aisle - to join me in supporting the public's right to know.”
12.24.2009	Conroe -- Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats passed a massive 2,733 page government takeover of health share: f t Conroe -- Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats passed a massive 2,733 page government takeover of health care on a party line vote: "Apparently the Senate bill is the best reform money can buy -- taxpayers' money, that is. This is no way to make health care more affordable in America, but I'm convinced the fight isn't over yet. House Republicans are united against this bill -- along with many House Democrats -- because we support real health care reform. If just three House members switch their votes, this Senate bill is stopped dead in its tracks. I'm going to do everything in my power to make that happen."
12.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Copenhagen share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Copenhagen Global Warming Conference ended with an agreement so "vague, hastily hatched and non-binding President Obama isn’t even sure he’ll be required to sign it.""Copenhagen failed because countries large and small fear the loss of economic prosperity that will accompany these arbitrary and scientifically questionable limits on carbon," said Congressman Brady. "A growing number of people around the world are reluctant to pay devastatingly higher fuel costs as part of an unproven experiment that will not likely change the natural cooling and heating cycles of the earth.""This should be a warning sign to the Senate as they continue their rush toward a national cap-and-trade scheme," added Brady, who voted against the House Cap and Trade Bill.
12.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following after all 60 Democrats in the Senate signed on the Majority Leader share: f t Brady says bill doesn’t address concerns Americans spoke out about at August town hallsWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following after all 60 Democrats in the Senate signed on the Majority Leader Harry Reid’s takeover of our nation’s health care system."At the end of the day, the new Senate bill is 95% the same bill as the original which raises health care costs on people who have insurance to pay for those who don't,” said Brady. “Increased taxes, premiums and mandates, Medicare cuts, abortion coverage and government intrusion into your most intimate health care decisions that the American people spoke out against in August remain. This bill is not the reform the American people are looking for.”To get Senator Ben Nelson (D-Nebraska) to provide the 60th vote to end debate, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid promised to pass all of the Cornhusker state’s future Medicaid expansion costs onto taxpayers from other states.
12.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on Joint Economic Committee, released the following statements: share: f t House approves more spending; narrowly passes increased U.S. debt limitWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on Joint Economic Committee, released the following statements:DEBT LIMIT INCREASEOn the controversial debt limit increase that narrowly passed the House today with 39 Dems joining all Republicans in voting against it:“Make no mistake; this is the first in a two-step plan to increase our nation’s debt by a whopping $2 trillion next year. This means that since Nancy Pelosi took office, the debt that every man, woman and children America owes has skyrocketed from $29,000 to over $45,000 in just few years,” said Brady.“This is a burden our children and grandchildren simply can’t bear. Congress and this White House have simply got to stop the spending,” Brady continued.STIMULUS IIOn Stimulus II, the $150 billion spending spree House Democrats pushed through Congress at the last moment before jetting to Copenhagen to push for higher energy and utility costs on American taxpayers:“The reason other countries are recovering more quickly than America from the economic crisis is that this White House and Congress is more interested in growing government than in growing jobs,” said Brady.“Clearly Speaker Pelosi is convinced that more state bailouts and government spending will create as many imaginary jobs as the first stimulus. Unfortunately the real losers from this bill are workers who will spend their Christmas in the unemployment line and our grandchildren who are saddled with this horrible debt,” continued Brady.Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, believes the President should start fresh with a new economic team. He and other conservatives have proposed a “No cost” jobs bill that stops proposed rules and bills that discourage businesses from hiring workers, starts lowering the debt, encourages banks to renew performing business loans, unleashed American energy productions, brings back to America $600 billion in American profits stranded overseas, and creates 250,000 new jobs by opening up new customers for American products in Panama, Colombia and South Korea.
12.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressional Democrats are in a box. Faced with raising the debt ceiling by $1.8 trillion due to a record-setting deficit share: f t Scalise, Brady Move to Force a Public VoteWashington, D.C. - Congressional Democrats are in a box. Faced with raising the debt ceiling by $1.8 trillion due to a record-setting deficit and unprecedented spending, Democratic leaders are trying to avoid an embarrassing public vote on the matter by attaching it next week to a popular bill to fund the troops and national defense.“Cowering behind our troops to hide a politically embarrassing increase in America’s debt is lower than low,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX).He and other conservatives today unveiled a bill by Congressman Steve Scalise of Louisiana that requires a direct, roll-call vote by members of Congress to increase the legal level of debt America incurs. Approval to raise the debt ceiling would require a two-thirds vote under H.R. 4262, the Cap the Debt Act. “Apparently when Democrats promised open and accountable government they didn’t mean when it comes to saddling future generations with debt. Every Democrat who’s voted to spend our grandchildren’s money should step up and take responsibility to pay for it, including President Obama. Shame on them for trying to hide the increase from the public by sneaking it into the troop funding bill.”Democrats want to raise the debt ceiling to just under $14 trillion, the most money America has ever owed.Note: When Democrats took control of both houses of Congress in January, 2007 the U.S. debt ceiling was $8.9 trillion – which translates into $29,568 for every man, woman and child in America. With the new debt ceiling the per person debt owed has increased to $45,573 per person.
12.10.2009	Washington, D.C. - As President Barack Obama, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank seek to extend the Troubled share: f t TARP has run its course, says Brady, and should not become slush fundWashington, D.C. - As President Barack Obama, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank seek to extend the Troubled Asset Relief Fund (TARP) in order to funnel taxpayer dollars to a variety of political causes, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) and over one hundred of his fellow conservatives are pushing to end the financial bailout program on December 31st as originally scheduled.“TARP has run its course. It’s time to close it down and return the money – including the repayments – back to the taxpayers”, says Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “America’s staggering deficit is scaring consumers, undermining our dollar and deterring businesses from making key decisions to hire new workers. If we want the private sector, not the government, to lead our economy onto firmer ground the last thing America needs is a multi-billion dollar slush fund for any wild spending program the White House and Congress may dream up.”Brady, along with House conservative leaders, sent a letter to Geithner detailing this request, because with billions of TARP funds already used for unintended reasons, like bailing out automakers and AIG, the American people understandably have grave concerns about it becoming a permanent slush fund for our government.
12.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed their traditional one-year extension of popular tax breaks but added permanent tax increases share: f t Brady says bill that extends state sales tax relief but harms local construction, real estate jobs a bad dealWashington, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed their traditional one-year extension of popular tax breaks but added permanent tax increases that harm local real estate and construction sectors. The measure was strongly opposed by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.“The reason this Congress can’t get America’s job creation engine going is that it keeps picking winners and losers in our economy,” said Brady. “Punishing community real estate partnerships who build our local office buildings, apartments, shopping centers and industrial parks and which drive local construction jobs makes no economic sense. Commercial real estate is facing a looming crisis that will hinder America’s economic recovery. This bill just makes it worse.”Brady notes that the provisions helping parents deduct college tuition expenses, teachers deduct out of pocket classroom expenses and encouraging more research and development are items supported by all members of Congress. One of his major pieces of legislation – extending the state and local sales tax deduction is included in this bill.“That is critical to Texas and saves our taxpayers $1.2 billion a year. But the tax increases included in this bill are terrible for our economy and don’t belong there.”The measure nearly triples taxes on more than one million local real estate partnerships which invest over $4 billion into local economies. House Democrats refused to let the House vote on Brady’s amendment to strip all tax increases out of the bill.
12.04.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the share: f t Can’t celebrate a 10% unemployment rateWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that payroll employment declined by 11,000 during the month of November:“The number of jobs lost is better than expected, which is good news, but we can’t celebrate a 10 percent unemployment rate when the long-term unemployment rate continues to grow in troubling numbers,” said Brady. “Our economy continues to bounce along the bottom. The greatest hurdle continues to be businesses reluctant to add new workers while Washington promotes higher health care costs, energy costs, more regulation and new taxes. Congress is frightening the horses and needs to stop because it’s the private sector, not the government, that will move America into a sound economic recovery.”
12.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today the Congressional Services Caucus released a new study by the U.S. Coalition of Services Industries demonstrating the growing number share: f t 8 in 10 jobs service related; average salary $58,000Washington, D.C. - Today the Congressional Services Caucus released a new study by the U.S. Coalition of Services Industries demonstrating the growing number and importance of services jobs to the U.S. economy. Based on data by the Census Bureau, the Congressional District Services Jobs Study reports that last year 93 million Americans were employed in private services – from insurance to medical to financial – paying an average salary of $58,000.Further highlighting the growing importance of the service sector, these jobs comprise 80% of the jobs in most congressional districts in the nation. America is the largest and most competitive exporter of services in the world, with a trade surplus in 2008 of $161 billion.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a founding co-chair of the bipartisan services caucus, said “On the eve of the President’s job summit, this study is a powerful reminder that services jobs can help lead America out of its economic downturn. I urge the White House and Congress to commit to opening opportunities to “sell American” services throughout the world, because we are the best in the world at it.”Brady agrees with President Obama’s recent statement that increasing U.S. sales abroad by just one percent would create at least 250,000 new U.S. jobs. Brady says the three pending trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea would boost American sales to those countries by more than one percent.“Can we afford to ignore the opportunity to create a quarter of a million good paying new jobs here in America?”Highlights from the study include:· The services sector employees over 265,000 Americans in the 8th district of Texas – accounting for over 74 percent of total employment. · The majority of the workforce in every Congressional District is employed in services.· Services employment accounts for nearly 8 out of every 10 jobs in the U.S. workforce.· 93 million Americans were employed in private services in 2008 – paying an average annual wage of $58,000.
11.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - This is the Pelosi health care plan. It's wrong for America. Over 100 new federal agencies, commissions and mandates stands share: f t Washington, D.C. - This is the Pelosi health care plan. It’s wrong for America. Over 100 new federal agencies, commissions and mandates stands between you and your doctor. This huge, inefficient new bureaucracy: Makes your insurance more expensive, forces millions of Americans into a government run plan, raises taxes on workers and small businesses, increases Medicare drug costs for the elderly, adds billions to our frightening deficit and, after throwing a trillion tax dollars at the problem – still leaves 18 million people uninsured. Big government doesn’t mean better health care. To pay for this massive new bureaucracy, Democrats slash Medicare for the elderly by more than a half-trillion dollars. That means 660,000 Texas seniors will lose their Medicare plans - and our community hospitals, nursing homes, hospice and home health care will suffer. It means 40 doctor–owned hospitals will close, killing 15,000 Texas jobs and cutting local care. It means a million and a half other Texans will see their plans disappear. This is not the reform families need. Instead, this is all about taking a giant first step toward a single-payer, national health care system. If the Pelosi plan passes, Washington will ultimately decide what doctors you see, what treatments you deserve and what medicines you receive. And when you’re sick, will you be worth their cost? House Republicans have a different vision. We listened. Ours is a careful, step-by-step solution to the complex issue of health care, focusing first on lowering your insurance costs – so more can afford it. We have no tax increases, no Medicare cuts, no rationing, no mandates and no huge intrusion of government into your most intimate health care decisions. Just more choices, more fairness and less lawyers. Best of all, our Republican plan is the only reform that actually lowers your health care premiums - and the deficit. We need to get health care reform right – the first time. The Pelosi plan gets it wrong.
11.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - In the moments after House Democrats narrowly passed a major reform of the nation's health care system, U.S. Congressman Kevin share: f t House Democrats Push Through Controversial $1.2 Trillion Health Care TakeoverWashington, D.C. - In the moments after House Democrats narrowly passed a major reform of the nation’s health care system, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement: “As a parent and a taxpayer I don’t believe bigger government means better heath care. The Pelosi plan is wrong for America,” said Brady, who helped lead the fight against the 2,032 page bill.“I’m not happy with tonight’s vote but it’s not the last say on this issue. This government takeover has got a long way to go before it gets to the President’s desk and I’ll continue to fight it tooth and nail at every turn. Health care is too important to get it wrong.”Brady is co-sponsor of the GOP alternative which the Congressional Budget Office certified was the only reform bill that actually lowered health care premiums – by an average 10 percent. It also reduced the federal budget deficit by $68 billion.The Republican bill uses a step-by-step approach, focusing first on lowering insurance premiums through lawsuit reform, helping small businesses join together to get better discounts and guaranteeing workers with pre-existing illnesses can change jobs without gaps in coverage. It also stops insurance companies from unjustly cancelling plans and lifts restrictions so workers can be rewarded for living healthier lifestyles.
11.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the economy shed another 190,000 jobs and hit a 26 year high of 10.2% in the month of October:“These numbers are bad news for American workers and further proof that the Obama economic policies are a failure,” said Brady.“Other countries, from Europe to Asia to our neighbor Canada, are recovering quicker and enjoying much lower unemployment rates. America continues to shed hundreds of thousands of new jobs each month and demonstrates you can't tax, spend and borrow your way to prosperity,” Brady continued.“A job-loss economic recovery is no recovery at all.”
10.30.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, reacted to White House news released today that share: f t Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady, lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, reacted to White House news released today that about 650,000 jobs have been “created or saved” by stimulus spending: “The White House has lost all credibility when it comes to stimulus jobs claims,” said Brady, noting that economists and Bureau of Labor Statistics officials testifying before the Joint Economic Committee repeatedly refuse to verify the White House claims.“Yesterday’s Associated Press story exposing the White House’s over-counting of jobs was consistent with the public’s view of these claims – they don’t believe them. Job numbers were exaggerated by ten times in some cases, contractors counted the same job up to four times and in some cases the funding didn’t even come from the stimulus.“What we know for certain is that 2.7 million payroll jobs have been lost since the Obama stimulus was signed into law, hundreds of thousands of more jobs are being lost each month and America is so deep in debt China and France are lecturing us to get our financial house in order.”
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Department share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee issued the following statement after the Department of Commerce announced a 3.5 rise in the third quarter 2009 gross domestic product (GDP) estimate:“While some may promote the stimulus as the savior of our economy, it is a claim only the Balloon Boy’s dad would make,” said Brady. “A jobless recovery is no recovery at all, and the 2.7 million Americans that have lost their jobs since the stimulus was enacted would agree,” Brady continued.“Our economy will continue to bounce along the bottom of the barrel until our government loosens its grasp on American businesses. Only then can businesses begin to make essential business decisions – and the jobs will come with them,” Brady continued.
10.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, today issued the following statement after share: f t Brady Vows to Stop Pelosi Health Care PlanWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee, today issued the following statement after House Democrats unveiled their nearly 2,000 page health care bill:“Well, now we know. Speaker Nancy Pelosi has unveiled her final plan and it is an unapologetic, full-throated government takeover of America’s health care system,” said Brady, who has helped lead opposition to the earlier massive bills. “This is why I came to Congress – to fight terrible ideas like this which will interject Washington into our most intimate health care decisions, drive up costs and the deficit, increase taxes and force Americans into a government run system they don’t want.“Added Brady, “I plan to devote every waking hour until this vote is taken to killing this bill and sending them back to the drawing board to get reform right. It’s too important for families and too important for America’s future.”
10.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Quotes from the opening statement of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, Ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, at an October 22 hearing featuring Dr. Christina Romer, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors: share: f t Washington, D.C. - Quotes from the opening statement of U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, Ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, at an October 22 hearing featuring Dr. Christina Romer, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisors:On a jobless recovery:“I am concerned that any growth in the second half of this year may prove transient, and consequently the unemployment rate may continue to increase well into 2010. Those in Washington shouldn’t kid themselves: A jobless recovery is no recovery for American workers.” On the Federal Reserve outperforming the stimulus:“Compared to the Federal Reserve’s $1.3 trillion “adrenaline shot,” President Obama’s stimulus spending pales. As of this month, only $173 billion, or 22 percent of the program’s total, had been spent – to the view of many, too slowly, too wastefully, and too unfocused on jobs. Like the hunter in the party who takes credit for every bird that falls, stimulus promoters should be wary of taking credit for the result of unprecedented Fed actions that are casting a far greater influence over the economy’s performance.” On Washington helping our recovery: “As a result (of Washington proposals to pass cap-and-trade, increase health care costs, impose new regulations and raise taxes on income, capital and international investment) many companies in my district and around the country are delaying important investment decisions – and the job creation that goes with it. In short, the government’s uncertainty and interference is quickly turning a “rescue operation” into an anchor around the private sector’s neck.”“The United States is on an unsustainable fiscal course,” Brady added.
10.21.2009	Washington, D.C. - When the Democrats in Congress passed the controversial and costly "stimulus" package in February of this year, the White House share: f t Texas lost 225,300 jobs even though White House promised 269,000 new jobsWashington, D.C. - When the Democrats in Congress passed the controversial and costly “stimulus” package in February of this year, the White House promised that the $787 billion bill would “create or save” nearly 3.5 million jobs. Instead, since that time more than 2.7 million jobs have been lost and unemployment continues to rise. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and a member of the Ways and Means Committee (R-TX) says the American people have been left asking the question, “What happened?”“The stimulus has done nothing but stimulate the national debt,” said Brady. “It's time the White House stop its ‘borrow and spend’ policies that have failed to put the economy back on track. Economic recovery won't begin until small businesses have enough confidence to begin to invest in the future and add new workers. Unfortunately, small businesses are being squeezed from all sides by a Congress and President intent on adding new small business taxes to fund large new entitlement and global warming initiatives."According to the new numbers released this morning by the Department of Labor, Texas has lost 225,300 jobs since the Stimulus was enacted. The table below compares the White House's February 2009 projection of the number of jobs that would be created by the 2009 stimulus law with the actual change in state payroll employment. 49 States and the District of Columbia have lost jobs since stimulus was enacted. President Obama claimed the stimulus bill would create of 3.5 million jobs. To see how stimulus has failed your state, see the table below.
10.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) today honored nine members of the U.S. House of Representatives from Texas share: f t Washington, D.C. - The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) today honored nine members of the U.S. House of Representatives from Texas as Taxpayer Heroes fortheir high scores in the group’s 2008 Congressional Ratings: Joe Barton with 83 percent; Kevin Brady with 80 percent, Michael Burgess with 91 percent, John Culberson with 87 percent, Jeb Hensarling with 98 percent, Sam Johnson with 92 percent, Kenny Marchant with 87 percent, Ron Paul with 88 percent, and Pete Sessions with 83 percent. The average for the entire House was 35 percent, and the average for the Senate was 38 percent; that makes these representatives` achievements that much more impressive. Since 1989, CCAGW has tracked roll call votes to separate the taxpayer advocates in Congress from those who favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. The 2008 Congressional Ratings cover the voting year 2008, the second session of the 110th Congress. CCAGW rated 48 key votes in the House and 42 in the Senate. "These nine Texas representatives consistently put the interests of taxpayers ahead of politics during a particularly profligate spending season in Congress," said CCAGW president Tom Schatz. "They voted to cut wasteful spending, reduce the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers. The 2008 Congressional Ratings show that many elected officials continue to demonstrate little regard for the harmful effect a large and cumbersome federal government has on taxpayers` wallets. Out-of-control spending reigned over Capitol Hill, leading to a record $1.6 trillion deficit in fiscal year 2009, and an $11.8 trillion national debt. Taxpayers from their respective districts should be very proud; these lawmakers` votes give all taxpayers hope for the future. We heartily commend them," concluded Schatz. House Democrats scored an average of 6 percent; House Republicans scored an average of 70 percent. In the Senate, the average for Democrats was 4 percent, and Republicans averaged 72 percent. CCAGW`s website, www.ccagw.org, features the complete 2008 Congressional Ratings, including vote descriptions, scorecards for the House and Senate, and averages by chamber, party, and state delegation. In the House, Rep. Paul Broun(R-Ga.) was the sole "Taxpayer Super Hero" with a grade of 100 percent. In 2008, there were 59 "Taxpayer Heroes" with a grade of 80 percent or above, the same as in 2007. The big difference was in the number of members with a perfectly abysmal score of zero. In 2007 there were only two. However, in 2008, the number of members with a score of zero skyrocketed to 34; a 1,600 percent increase and an indication of growing partisanship as all of them are Democrats. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, the nation`s largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government.
10.08.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after strongly opposing the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 share: f t Funding for military should not be held hostage to divisive social agendas, says BradyWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after strongly opposing the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 to which Congressional Democrats attached controversial legislation that expands federal hate crimes legislation to include sexual orientation and gender identity:“Hate crimes have nothing to do with troop funding. Congress has reached a new low,” said Brady, a strong defense supporter whose brother is an Iraqi war veteran and active Army. “The same Democrat leadership that promised to ‘slow bleed’ our military and has declared political war on America’s own intelligence community now has found a way to cynically use our fighting men and women to further their controversial social agenda.”“For the families and loved ones of military families, this must just be disgusting.”
10.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the share: f t Businesses, Investors delaying decisions while Washington weighs increased taxes, energy and health care costsWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that payroll employment declined by 263,000 during the month of September:“Job losses continue to mount, and unemployment is at an alarming 9.8%,” said Brady. “What concerns me most, however, is the growing number of companies that are delaying key business investments and decisions because of the uncertainty surrounding Washington, specifically punitive proposals to increase American energy and health care costs and raise taxes on capital, income and overseas investment,” he continued.“The unpredictability of government is the new “invisible hand” of the market, and it is slowing the recovery – discouraging companies from making decisions that could lead to rehiring old workers and hiring new ones,” Brady added. The White House and Congress are weighing proposals to increase taxes on energy, health insurance, capital gains, dividends, personal and corporate income, international taxes and a rash of new regulatory costs.
09.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - When President Obama touches down in Pittsburgh for the G-20 Summit he has a chance to lead on trade policies share: f t Washington, D.C. - When President Obama touches down in Pittsburgh for the G-20 Summit he has a chance to lead on trade policies that will level the playing field for American workers and small businesses.Trade is critical to U.S. economic growth and vital to global economic development. Trade – especially exports – has been the one bright spot in our economy over recent years, accounting at one point for nearly 60 percent of our economic growth. Forty-two percent of American jobs depend on trade, and exports account for one in every eight dollars earned by Americans last year. Yet in the midst of this severe economic downturn, U.S. exports have declined by 20 percent – marking the worst decline in U.S. exports since World War II.Unfortunately, President Obama has not focused on reversing this dangerous trend. Instead of moving forward on a strategy to open markets abroad to U.S.-made products, the Administration has indefinitely delayed laying out a trade agenda and has filled the void with isolationist measures. Earlier this year, the Administration and the Democrat Majority pulled the plug on a pilot program for Mexican commercial trucks without improving highway safety – causing the United States to violate our commitments and subjecting American exporters to $2.4 billion in retaliatory tariffs. Most recently, the White House announced that it will impose a union-supported 35 percent tax on Chinese tires without support from a single U.S. tire manufacturer. The impact of the new “tire tax,” effective this Saturday, will likely fall hardest on struggling American families that must now pay more for a necessity in life – with no assurance any more U.S. jobs will be created as a result. The Buy American provisions in the “stimulus” bill are contracting trade, restricting job opportunities for Americans, and clogging, rather than priming, U.S. economic recovery.For American companies to grow and be competitive, we need to “Sell American.” President Obama can start by asking Congress to move the pending trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea. These agreements, which represent an immediate boost to U.S. exports, have been stalled for more than two years. And the cost of inaction only hurts American companies as other countries move into those markets, blocking U.S. access. Republicans on the House Ways and Means Committee recently released analysis detailing this cost to our key export sectors as the European Union forges ahead with trade agreements with South Korea and Colombia, and Canada moves toward an agreement with Colombia.There is no one solution to our current economic woes, but it is clear that trade is a critical part of the solution. By increasing trade flows, we can speed the global economic recovery and create a stronger U.S. economy. President Obama can continue to sit on the sidelines of the global trade dialogue, or he can lead, starting today, and help American businesses, families, and workers thrive across our great country.
09.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives, on a vote of 232 to 111 today passed H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and share: f t Many Texas students affected, ‘Public Option” swallows free market Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives, on a vote of 232 to 111 today passed H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009, which eliminates the Federal Family Education Loan Program and shifts all student loans to the government-run and taxpayer financed Direct Loan program. The measure effectively ends college student loans by private lenders. In 1993, under President Clinton, the government created a “public option” – the Direct Loan program – to compete with the private loan industry.“In Texas many of our students secure funding for college through private lenders, loans that for many years have been widely available and affordable. Washington now has completed a government takeover of the college loan industry, and shifted the burden completely onto the American taxpayer”, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas).Experts predict Texas will lose 1,500 jobs among private lenders – along with the elimination of free market competition. Currently, estimates show that about three-fourths of college students and their families borrow through private lenders under FFEL.Brady is also concerned about the cost of the bill. While proponents claim it will save $8 billion, budget gimmicks within the bill mask its true costs which experts say is closer to $50 billion – new spending which the government can ill afford.
09.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on major changes announced today to U.S. Missile Defense plans in Europe:"The share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on major changes announced today to U.S. Missile Defense plans in Europe:"The missile defense shield is about security for our allies and deterrence of nuclear threats by hostile nations,” said Brady. “I am skeptical the President's decision makes us more secure or less likely to face nuclear threats by rogue nations in the future.”“If this is, in fact, a strategic decision based upon some unknown concession by Russia and others to join America's efforts against nuclear regimes in the region, then we can expect new initiatives by Russia to become apparent soon.“I suspect, though, that this is more simply a disdain for an idea championed by former President Bush that liberals in America have come to hate. If so, it's a terribly short-sighted decision that will come back to haunt America."
09.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - After Congressional Democrats announced today they will "go it alone" on reforming America's health care system, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is questioning why that's no surprise to anyone: share: f t GOP health care leader says Democrats never sought a bi-partisan solutionWashington, D.C. - After Congressional Democrats announced today they will “go it alone” on reforming America’s health care system, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is questioning why that’s no surprise to anyone:“That’s not news. Sadly, House Democrats haven’t bothered to even appear to invite Republican solutions to the complex issue of health care,” said Brady. “While the President is running around the country blaming Republicans, the truth is that Democrats control Congress and the White House by wide margins and decided long ago they would rush through this government–run plan on their own. As a result, they are struggling.”“It’s too bad because there are a lot of great ideas on how to make health care better that both parties can bring to the table. If President Obama, Speaker Pelosi and others would listen to the American people for just a moment, they would realize the public isn’t buying their plan and that they need to go back to the drawing board now and invite Republicans to help solve this critical problem.”Brady is a long-time advocate of health care reform. To see the results of his 50 Ideas to Improve Health Care initiative, please click here.
09.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - Mr. John B. Catoe, Jr.General ManagerWashington Metro Area Transit Authority600 5th Street, N.W.Washington, DC 20001To Mr. Catoe:I write this letter share: f t Washington, D.C. - Mr. John B. Catoe, Jr.General ManagerWashington Metro Area Transit Authority600 5th Street, N.W.Washington, DC 20001To Mr. Catoe:I write this letter on behalf of my constituents of the 8th Congressional District of Texas – many of whom traveled at great expense and time to our nation’s capital to exercise their right of free speech in the Taxpayer March on D.C. which was held on Saturday, September 12. These individuals came all the way from Southeast Texas to protest the excessive spending and growing government intrusion by the 111th Congress and the new Obama Administration. Based upon numerous eye-witness reports by participants in the march, it is clear METRO did not adequately prepare for the influx of Americans traveling to D.C. for this historic event. I want an explanation why.During the march, I heard complaints from elderly veterans in wheel chairs who were denied use of the subway because not enough METRO cars were available and the METRO cars that did arrive were full to overflowing capacity.An 80 year old woman and her 60 year old daughter were forced to walk – and eventually pay for a cab – due to overcrowded conditions on the METRO. I heard many such complaints. These participants, whose tax dollars were used to create and maintain this public transit system, were frustrated and disappointed that our nation’s capital did not make a greater effort to simply provide a basic level of transit service for them.METRO was certainly aware of the march due to widespread media attention ahead of time. While the turnout was certainly much larger than predicted, it appears that METRO added no additional capacity to its regular weekend schedule.I request that METRO promptly provide my office with a full summary of all preparations and actions taken by the agency ahead of and during the gathering, especially related to additional capacity, service, and security.Sincerely, Kevin Brady
09.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statement after reports that Democrats will offer a resolution of disapproval share: f t Will vote no on the resolution of disapproval against Rep. Joe WilsonWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today released the following statement after reports that Democrats will offer a resolution of disapproval against Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) today in the House:“Enough with the political games,” said Brady. “Congressman Wilson has apologized to the president, who has accepted his apology.”“I could cite equally objectionable behavior Congressional Democrats should apologize for – like ignoring House rules that allow members of Congress time to read bills before they are voted on. But instead of wasting floor time we should be focused on improving health care without resorting to a massive government takeover that will lead to rationing of care, staggering debt and government interference with the doctor-patient relationship,” Brady continued.Brady also noted that since Democrats have the votes to pass health care, this resolution is more of a distraction from Democratic in-fighting over health care than anything. Brady will vote against the resolution of disapproval.
09.04.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee released the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the August unemployment rate increased to 9.7%:“The U.S. lost 216,000 jobs in August alone and this is unacceptable,” said Brady. “The real recovery for American families will only come when employment is rising again and the unemployment rate declines significantly,” Brady added. “Some data suggests that the economy may be bottoming out, but the fact of the matter is, the stimulus was too slow, didn’t prevent the unemployment rate from rising above 8 percent as promised, and has not helped American families and small businesses while adding to a nearly $2 trillion deficit,” Brady continued.
09.04.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today has joined other House leaders in calling for the immediate resignation of the Green share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) today has joined other House leaders in calling for the immediate resignation of the Green Jobs Czar:“A President should have the ability to have senior aides in the White House,” said Brady.“This President has clearly abused this privilege in appointing so many high-level “czars” that are setting policy but are not accountable to the Congress – and to the American people. Without these checks and balances, individuals with extreme or questionable views and backgrounds could rise to power,” Brady continued. “I call on President Obama to halt any more appointments of ‘czars’ until Congress can hold hearings on restoring accountability.”
09.01.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady has added yet another town hall on top of his already 40 meetings after numerous senior share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady has added yet another town hall on top of his already 40 meetings after numerous senior groups have requested to learn more about health care reform.“People want to know what’s in this health care reform legislation. They have questions and want answers and town hall forums have been a great vehicle to provide people in the 8th District with the information they need,” said Brady.Brady will host another meeting this Wednesday morning at 8:00AM CDT at TWUMC in the Wesley Hall. This event is open to the public and open to the press.Who: U.S. Congressman Kevin BradyWhat: Town hall event with senior groupsWhen: Wednesday, September 2, 2009 at 8:00AM CDTWhere: TWUMC in the Wesley Hall
08.25.2009	Washington, D.C. - In light of today's stunning announcement by the White House that the federal deficit will be almost $2 trillion higher share: f t DEFICIT WOULD BE HIGHERWashington, D.C. - In light of today’s stunning announcement by the White House that the federal deficit will be almost $2 trillion higher over the next decade than what they presented earlier this year to Congress, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says the administration knew they were "cooking the books" from day one."Earlier this year the White House was repeatedly challenged as to why their economic forecasts were rosier than either the Congressional Budget Office or the blue chip forecasts, and they were arrogantly adamant that their numbers were accurate and realistic, both of which have been proven embarrassingly untrue", said Brady. "The White House knew all along they were cooking the books to mask the true size of the federal deficit.""The dangerous spending spree the President and this Democratic Congress has undergone undermines our economic recovery and risks a future federal debt crisis. This irresponsible spending has to stop now. We can start by repealing the unspent stimulus, ending the bailouts and resubmitting a new budget that will bring our deficit under control."Brady added, "Given our unfunded liabilities and our deficits, Congress certainly cannot create a new government-run health care plan that will add trillions of new dollars of spending we can’t afford."
08.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - At the six month anniversary of President Barack Obama's signature "achievement" – the $787 billion stimulus measure – it's important share: f t Washington, D.C. - At the six month anniversary of President Barack Obama's signature “achievement” — the $787 billion stimulus measure — it's important to separate economic fact from fiction. While persuading Democratic lawmakers to pass the massive spending bill without reading it, the White House promised the stimulus would provide “an immediate jolt” to the U.S. economy, create millions of new jobs and keep unemployment under 8 percent. None of those promises has materialized. If the stimulus is working so well, where are all the jobs? Two million more American jobs have been lost, the economy continues to contract and the unemployment rate is at 9.4 percent and likely headed higher. The government reported recently that extended mass layoffs are at a record high.The fact is the stimulus is too slow, not focused on jobs, and wasteful. Only 10 percent of the stimulus money has hit the U.S. economy. To put it in Texas terms, if the American economy is the length of a football field, the stimulus spending so far is equal to the length of your two shoes. No one — at least with a straight face — can credibly claim it is driving an economic recovery. I didn't vote for this then and I believe congressional leaders and the White House should admit it's not working.Only half of the stimulus spending will make its way through federal and state bureaucracy by early 2011 — long after the economy really needs it and just as critics correctly predicted. Very little of this government's spending has created new jobs. The whopping $1.10 a day tax cut hasn't spurred any consumer spending, because most people didn't even notice it. Funding for roads and infrastructure is roughly 5 percent of the overall stimulus spending. It's appalling to me that more stimulus dollars will be wasted on things like buying new public art than spent helping small businesses survive this recession.So far, the stimulus has only served as a bailout to state governments so Democratic and Republican governors alike can claim balanced budgets.And, unfortunately, as predicted, far too much of the spending has been wasteful. While it is difficult for an average taxpayer — or even a member of Congress — to track the spending, each day the media reports on some outrageous boondoggle: a $3 million turtle crossing in Florida, $50,000 for a hand puppet project through the National Endowment for the Arts, new office furniture for federal executives. An even more blatant example of the misuse of money occurred in Union, N.Y. The city was given $600,000 for a homeless program that it never requested. The city doesn't have homeless issues nor a homeless program. When city leaders protested, the federal government told them to “get creative.” With America's crushing federal deficits worrying investors and inviting embarrassing lectures from China, we should all be asking ourselves, Is this how we want our tax dollars spent?Borrowing more than a trillion dollars to pay for all this will eventually put a drag on America's recovery, along with increased energy prices from the cap-and-trade scheme and major tax increases on professionals and small businesses included in the health care reform bill. Rather than send Vice President Joe Biden out on the stump making wild claims about the stimulus to an increasingly skeptical America, it's time to repeal the unspent portion of this boondoggle and start showing the world we are serious about getting our financial house in order. Brady, the ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, represents the 8th District of Texas.
08.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee released the following statement after the share: f t Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee released the following statement after the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that July’s unemployment rate is now at 9.4 %: “As we saw with last weeks GDP numbers, our economy is no longer in a free-fall, but it’s still in trouble and there is serious structural damage,” said Brady. The July report shows a 9.4% unemployment rate while U.S. payroll employment lost 247,000 jobs in July. “Consumers are rejecting the stimulus and housing is a continuing weakness. The looming commercial real estate crisis is holding investors at bay and foreign markets are sending up red flags about America's reckless spending spree. Clearly we need a change in direction from the White House. Rather than higher taxes and crippling energy policies we need 21st century incentives to encourage private businesses to invest and create jobs for a sustained and vigorous recovery to occur,” Brady continued.
08.03.2009	Washington, D.C. - America's top taxpayers are carrying a larger share of the nation's income tax burden than at any time in modern share: f t Also, Wealthy Gained More Under Clinton than BushWashington, D.C. - America’s top taxpayers are carrying a larger share of the nation’s income tax burden than at any time in modern economic times, say congressional economists.The latest data from the Internal Revenue Service show the top one per cent of taxpayers are paying 40.4 percent of all personal income taxes, its highest level since IRS began compiling comparable data in 1986. Conversely, the share of the bottom half of taxpayers has fallen to 2.9 percent, its lowest level since the same year.The top five percent of tax filers now shoulder 60.6 percent of all federal personal income taxes, and the top ten percent 71.2 percent – also new highs in tax proportions.“Contrary to the rhetoric, America’s wealthy already bear a modern record high share of the federal tax burden, while those who are still working their way up the economic ladder are paying less and less,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, (R-TX) the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “These hard numbers undermine attempts by the White House and Congress to justify heaping new taxes on professionals and small businesses to pay for their massive new government run health care plan.”Countering a common White House claim about the “wealthy one percent,” data shows the income share of the wealthiest one percent of Americans increased more under President Bill Clinton than under President George W. Bush. The top tax filers share of adjusted gross income increased nearly seven percentage points between 1992 and 2000 (14.2 to 20.8 percent), while growing three times slower during the Bush years – 20.8 to 22.8 percent from years 2000 to 2007.“These data prove the wealthy one percent prospered under President Clinton, but paid more of America’s income tax burden under President Bush,” notes Brady.The analysis was released today by U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, based on new IRS data for the 2007 tax year.
07.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - As Congressional Democrats propose legislation to shore up the highway and unemployment trust funds, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) demands a share: f t Brady urges transfer of stimulus funds to Highway Trust Fund instead of taxpayer bailoutWashington, D.C. - As Congressional Democrats propose legislation to shore up the highway and unemployment trust funds, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) demands a little common-sense. He believes Congress should pay for the bankrupt highway trust fund with unspent stimulus dollars instead of asking for more. “Instead burdening future generations with more debt and asking taxpayers to provide yet another bailout, why don’t we take some of the unspent stimulus dollars, which has utterly failed to work, to fund the Highway Trust Fund?”“When you have a wound that won’t stop bleeding, you don’t keep patching it up with band-aids and hope the bleeding stops, yet today, we stand here and that’s exactly what Congressional Democrats are proposing,” said Brady.Congress will likely approve a $7 billion bailout for the bankrupt Highway Trust Fund today; just months after President Obama signed a $787 billion stimulus package, much of which has yet to be distributed.
07.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - While tiny in relation to the historic spending spree launched by President Obama and Congressional Democrats, the Sunset Caucus, recently share: f t Washington, D.C. - While tiny in relation to the historic spending spree launched by President Obama and Congressional Democrats, the Sunset Caucus, recently created by House conservatives, scored its first victory in their battle against wasteful Washington spending.Under pressure from the Republican Study Committee, Democrats are eliminating $8.7 million for a cultural exchange program that connect whalers in Massachusetts with their whaling ancestors in Alaska and Hawaii. The cut is included in the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill the U.S. House of Representatives took up on Friday, July 24, 2009.“It’s one small step for taxpayers, one giant step for common sense,” said Brady, who co-chairs the Sunset Caucus with Utah congressman Jason Chaffetz.“We are going to keep the pressure on Congress to eliminate these ridiculous programs and cut wasteful spending. I hope this is one of many victories to come from the Sunset Caucus.”
07.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Despite widespread criticism by independent budget experts, the Democrat-controlled U.S. House pushed through a bill today they claim will require share: f t HO-HO!Washington, D.C. - Despite widespread criticism by independent budget experts, the Democrat-controlled U.S. House pushed through a bill today they claim will require Congress to pay for new federal spending with tax increases or spending cuts. In practice, the so-called PAYGO provision has resulted in record government spending and historic deficits in the three years it has been in effect.“Under PAYGO rules put in place by Speaker Pelosi when she took office, America’s deficit has increased ten-fold – the largest in our country’s history. It cuts no spending and is used as an excuse for liberals to justify tax increases”, said Brady, who has proposed a major reform of spending practices in Washington.“When it comes to controlling spending PAYGO is not merely a sham, it’s a farce of a sham. And our grandchildren, loaded down with debt, will pay the price.”
07.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - As committees in the House of Representatives rush to debate the health care plan hastily cobbled together this week by share: f t Brady fights to stop government takeoverWashington, D.C. - As committees in the House of Representatives rush to debate the health care plan hastily cobbled together this week by Democratic leaders, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) offered amendments to protect patients against rationing, poor cancer care and major tax increases.“Democrats claim the new government-run plan will not ration care or increase cancer death rates. I say let’s put those claims into law. If they fail, suspend the plan so its not hurting patients,” said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee.Brady is also leading GOP efforts to strike the massive tax increase on patients and small businesses in the bill. “This is an attack on small business jobs, on investment in America, and will devastate contributions to our local charities.”“Families in Texas are fearful the government-run plan will control which doctors you can see, which treatments you deserve and which medicines you receive,” said Brady. I don’t want them to lose control of their health care to Washington bureaucrats.”
07.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, today unveiled a detailed flow chart of share: f t Public Gets Peek at Complicated Bureaucracy in Democratic Health Care PlanWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, today unveiled a detailed flow chart of the complex health care reform proposal by Democratic congressional leaders.The chart identifies at least 31 new federal programs, agencies, commissions and mandates that accompany the unprecedented government takeover of health care in America.“Why should any patient be forced to give control of their health care over to this Faustian pit of Washington bureaucracy?” asked Brady.“This government takeover has only one guaranteed result: to tell Americans what doctors you can see, what treatments you deserve and what medicines you can have.”The attached chart depicts how the health care system would be organized at the national level if the Democrats’ plan became law. These new levels of bureaucracy, agencies, organization and programs will all be put directly between the patient and their health care.
07.14.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) continues to highlight wasteful Washington spending as he seeks to strip out a little noticed share: f t Brady targets $1.5 million for “carbon audit” of tax codeWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) continues to highlight wasteful Washington spending as he seeks to strip out a little noticed provision in the Financial Services appropriations bill that allocates $1.5 million to conduct a “carbon audit” of the nation’s tax code.“This is crazy. Congress wants to study the carbon footprint of our tax code, apparently so our taxes can become more ’green,’” says Brady. “Most taxpayers are going to see red when they learn their hard-earned dollars are going to such frivolous uses.”Brady has filed an amendment to eliminate the study, citing the largest deficit in American history is occurring this year.“Enough is enough. Stop the spending.”
07.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - Concerned that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will rush health care reform through the U.S. House of Representatives before Americans can share: f t Let all Americans be part of the health care debateWashington, D.C. - Concerned that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi will rush health care reform through the U.S. House of Representatives before Americans can study the bill or even pose questions to their elected representatives, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is urging the speaker not to schedule a vote until the public can be heard on this critical issue during the traditional August recess.“Why are average Americans being denied the right to question their elected members of Congress before a vote that will have such a significant impact on their health care and their family’s lives?” asked Brady. “August should be made America’s Right to Know Month so those who are pushing a new government-run health care plan – as well as those of us who have better ideas – can face the music and our constituents head on.”“Thousands of Americans have not only voiced their anger, they have made it crystal clear they've had enough of Congress rushing through massive spending bills that have racked up trillions in debt. Before a vote is called they have a right to know exactly what a secretly-negotiated health care bill would cost them in taxes and treatment options,” says Brady.“When it comes to health care, why are leaders in Congress afraid to let the public see their bill? If patients, families, small businesses and health care providers have the opportunity to study the proposal and give input directly to their member of Congress, in the end these will be much better reforms for America." Brady is calling on both Democrats and Republicans to sign a letter to the Speaker declaring August a month for public study and input into the health care bill.
07.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee submitted an amendment to the Financial share: f t Taxpayer money must be safeguarded, says BradyWashington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee submitted an amendment to the Financial Services appropriations bill to force Treasury to accept recommendations from the bailout funds watchdog created by Congress, Neil Barofsky.“Treasury has refused to adopt recommendation after recommendation on how to protect taxpayer money from fraud, waste, abuse and collusion,” said Brady“As the Treasury continues to stonewall, this amendment will stop funding the salaries and expenses of the Department of the Treasury Office of Financial Stability until they take action or tell us exactly why they can’t.”An example of a recommendation that Treasury has refused to act upon is below:Bailout funds watchdog, Neil Barofsky continues to recommend that Treasury require all bailout recipients to report on the actual use of the funds.
07.10.2009	Washington, D.C. - Just months after a March 5th shooting and critical injury of a Houston Police Officer, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) share: f t Washington, D.C. - Just months after a March 5th shooting and critical injury of a Houston Police Officer, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) praised the announcement of an agreement to train local Houston law enforcement to detain and eventually deport illegal immigrants who commit crimes.“This program will help ensure that illegal immigrants who commit crimes will not be let back into our communities,” said Brady.“Quickly identifying and deporting criminal aliens not only makes the streets of Houston safer, but will help combat the image that Houston is a safe haven for gang members, drug traffickers and other criminals who are in the country illegally.”
07.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - As White House advisors and Democrats on Capitol Hill float the idea of a second stimulus package this fall, the share: f t White House Admits First Stimulus “Disappointing”, Seeks Billions MoreWashington, D.C. - As White House advisors and Democrats on Capitol Hill float the idea of a second stimulus package this fall, the leading House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee vows to fight more frivolous spending that so far has failed to ignite the ailing U.S. economy.“Congress and the White House got the first stimulus wrong, and now they want more of the same?” asked Brady. “Despite promises that unemployment would go down and millions of jobs would magically appear, five months later America is saddled with 9.5 percent unemployment, a record deficit and a public that is losing faith in the ability of this new president to address our economic problems.”“Families and small businesses can smell a gimmick a mile away, and they saw through the wild stimulus promises. They are worried about the dangerous debt America is piling up. Throwing more frivolous spending at our economy will only make matter worse.”
07.02.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee is telling the President and Congressional Democrats share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the Ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee is telling the President and Congressional Democrats that they are writing checks that this country can’t cash and endangering the economy in the process.“In a staggering display of fiscal irresponsibility President Obama and Congressional Democrats continue an unprecedented spending spree while this economy continues to hemorrhage jobs – another half million last month alone,” said Brady. “You’d think that the highest unemployment rate in a quarter century would convince Democratic leaders to get serious about reigning in our spending.” The June report shows a 9.5% unemployment rate. U.S. payroll employment shrank by 467,000 jobs."We are unlikely to see real confidence in this economy until we give taxpayers an off-ramp from this spending freeway,” added Brady.
06.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - On the morning of an historical vote on the controversial "cap and tax" global warming legislation in the U.S. House share: f t Washington, D.C. - On the morning of an historical vote on the controversial “cap and tax” global warming legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) questions the real environmental benefits of the measure and fears the cost to Texas families and small businesses."I have young children, so of course the environment matters. But this bill won’t impact the natural cycle of the earth's temperature and will cost families dearly in higher utility bills, higher energy costs and nearly 200,000 lost jobs in Texas,” says Brady. "With China, India and other nations refusing to participate, independent experts predict this bill will not yield any measurable environmental benefits.”Job Losses in S.E. TexasThe congressman, who is the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, says the jobs most at risk are here in southeast Texas in the energy, refining, paper, steel and agriculture industries. And because the products American companies sell and ship overseas will be especially hard hit by cap and trade, Texas as the largest exporting state in the nation is especially vulnerable.“The biggest hit will be felt in southeast Texas, but you’ll see job losses reach every region of the state,” he predicts.A Better Solution"Instead of rushing this 1,200 page bill through the House with less than 24 hours to read it, a better solution is for Republicans and Democrats to get serious about increasing cleaner burning fuels like nuclear and natural gas, accelerating research into renewable energy and tapping America's abundant traditional energy to transition to a greener future. That makes more sense, creates jobs and produces real environmental results without cap and trade’s devastating cost to families and businesses.”Currently, the cap and tax legislation will cost each household in Texas an extra $3,128 per year and each person will be burdened with an extra $903 per year in taxes according to budget experts. The net job losses predicted for Texas are 197,000 according to the Heritage Foundation.
06.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - A new study out today by the non-partisan HSI Network estimated that the Democratic health care plan will result in share: f t Brady says new 3.5 trillion dollar cost another reason for Congress not to rush bill through without more input from American peopleWashington, D.C. - A new study out today by the non-partisan HSI Network estimated that the Democratic health care plan will result in a $3.5 trillion cost to the American taxpayers - requiring $11,000 per person in new spending or taxes.“Health care reform is critical but it’s irresponsible for Congress to rush into a plan that Americans can't afford to maintain. That's the financial problem we already face with Medicare and Social Security," said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady who sits on a key health care committee. "Lawmakers should have the opportunity to take these reform proposals back to their communities during the traditional August recess and listen to average Americans concerns, especially being honest about who will end up paying higher taxes or higher premiums to pay for this massive new government run program."Congressman Brady launched a unique grassroots campaign in 2007 aimed at health care reform called 50 Ideas to Improve Health Care. Read the results here.
06.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - The downed trees, limbs and leaves which have been clogging Hardin County's drainage system since Hurricane Ike passed through are share: f t $12 million from Congress will clear and repair drainage systemsWashington, D.C. - The downed trees, limbs and leaves which have been clogging Hardin County’s drainage system since Hurricane Ike passed through are about to meet their match. The Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA) is presenting Hardin County officials with over $12 million in congressionally appropriated hurricane recovery funds today to clear and repair drainage systems county-wide.“With another Hurricane season now underway, this work is critical to the safety and well-being of the people of Hardin County,” said Congressman Kevin Brady who was instrumental in getting $6.3 billion in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program supplemental disaster recovery funds for areas impacted by disaster in 2008. “Roughly half of that has come to Texas where we have had more than our share of Mother Nature’s wrath in the last few years,” he added.
06.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Last fall Bridge City took a battering from Hurricane Ike, but today the community makes another big step towards recovery. share: f t Washington, D.C. - Last fall Bridge City took a battering from Hurricane Ike, but today the community makes another big step towards recovery. Today, Bridge City is receiving nearly $9.7 million in congressionally appropriated funds to repair nearly a dozen city roadways which were submerged for an extended period of time and to purchase and install 15 generators to keep the water flowing during future power outages.“With another Hurricane season now underway, getting these repairs and upgrades accomplished will be another sign that you can’t keep Bridge City down,” said Congressman Kevin Brady who was instrumental in getting $6.3 billion in Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program supplemental disaster recovery funds for areas impacted by disaster in 2008. “I’m very pleased that roughly half of those dollars have come home here to Texas where we have had more than our share of Mother Nature’s wrath in the last few years,” he added.
06.18.2009	Washington, D.C. - Statement from Congressman Kevin Brady on the Impeachment of Federal Judge Samuel B. Kent who is serving 33 months in share: f t Washington, D.C. - Statement from Congressman Kevin Brady on the Impeachment of Federal Judge Samuel B. Kent who is serving 33 months in federal prison: "Judge Kent thumbed his nose at the very Constitution he took an oath to uphold by obstructing justice and then thumbed his nose at Congress by post-dating his resignation so he could continue to receive a $174,000 a year salary while behind bars. However, the U.S. Constitution gives Congress the final say in these matters and we are moving swiftly to provide justice for the taxpayers."
06.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - Leading the charge for a return to a smaller, more efficient government, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) has opened up a share: f t Sunset Caucus will be on the front line of a new conservative offensive to control federal spendingWashington, D.C. - Leading the charge for a return to a smaller, more efficient government, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) has opened up a new offensive front in the battle over the ever-increasing size of the federal government. The Sunset Caucus' mission is to shrink the size of government by eliminating programs, agencies and even entire departments. “The Administration and the Democrats in Congress are united in digging us into a deep hole that we soon may not be able to get out of,” said Brady. “Today we have fired the first volley in a new offensive on behalf of taxpayers who tell us they've had enough." However, today's proposals to eliminate out-of-date, duplicative and wasteful programs are only the beginning of the Caucus's efforts to cut the waste in Washington. Each member of the new caucus will be filing amendments and bills aimed at removing unnecessary programs from the government dole. Brady's first target is a cross-cultural program that explores whaling traditions in Alaska, Hawaii and Massachusetts at a cost of $8.75 million per year."Propping up various industries with taxpayer money and increasing government spending is not the right path to getting America's financial house in order," added Brady. "We owe it to the taxpayers to ensure that ever dime they send to Washington is spent wisely.”
06.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives took up a final compromise $106 billion war funding bill today which cut $5 billion share: f t Brady opposes final version with unnecessary provisionsWashington, D.C. - The U.S. House of Representatives took up a final compromise $106 billion war funding bill today which cut $5 billion in troop support from an earlier version and which includes billions of dollars in unrelated projects.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), who voted for higher troop funding in the bill that passed the House several weeks ago, opposed the final bill.“Troops first, politics second. For too long lawmakers have larded up critical war funding bills with unrelated measures that would be difficult to pass on their own,” said Brady. “It’s time for these political games to stop. “The measure includes funding for a new automobile trade-in program, United Nations dues, the pandemic flu, international affairs and the International Monetary Fund. It also creates what experts predict is a significant loophole to allow President Obama’s plan to close Guantanamo Bay to move forward.
06.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - Amid concerns that too much of the first round of federal Hurricane Ike disaster aid was diverted to state bureaucracy share: f t Brady urges State of Texas to dedicate all $1.7 billion of new federal disaster funds to helping Ike communities recoverWashington, D.C. - Amid concerns that too much of the first round of federal Hurricane Ike disaster aid was diverted to state bureaucracy, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) urged Governor Rick Perry by letter to send 100 percent of the recently announced $1.7 billion in federal funds directly to impacted communities for their recovery needs. In the first round of Ike funding in February, the state held back $102 million for administrative and planning activities, an amount sufficient to cover any administrative oversight for the second round of HUD funding, says Brady.“Congress wants these funds to go to communities, not to red tape,” said Brady, who fought for the funding from Washington and whose district was hard hit by hurricanes Ike and Rita.“The state has an important administrative role, no doubt, but $100 million is more than enough to fulfill that role. Local communities desperately need every penny of these precious funds to rebuild their communities and prepare against the next storm.”“These additional CDBG funds will be instrumental in helping our local governments rebuild,” wrote Brady in a letter to Texas Governor Rick Perry. “Local communities are relying on these dollars to provide housing, rebuild public infrastructure and mitigate against the impacts of future storms.”“Therefore, in the interest of maximizing their use, every dollar of the second allocation should be dedicated to the impacted communities,” added Brady.
06.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady's (R-TX) Eighth District Mobile Office will be making its rounds to local communities throughout the region share: f t June 23rd – 25thWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady’s (R-TX) Eighth District Mobile Office will be making its rounds to local communities throughout the region from Tuesday, June 23 through Thursday, June 25.The Mobile Office will be staffed with Congressional caseworkers ready to help people with government problems, such as Social Security, Medicare, Veterans Benefits, IRS, immigration and passport issues, without those constituents having to spend their precious gas dollars. “It is sometimes difficult for folks to make it out to one of my offices, so this traveling office is a convenient alternative,” said Brady. For additional information about the mobile office tour, please contact the Conroe District Office toll free at 1-877-441-5700.Tuesday, June 23, 20098:00 – 9:00 a.m.Vidor (Orange County)Location: First Baptist Church of Vidor Address: 350 N. Main Street, Vidor9:30 – 10:30 a.m.Bridge City (Orange County)Location: Bridge City High SchoolAddress: 2690 Texas Avenue, Bridge City11:00 – 12:00 p.m.Deweyville (Newton County)Location: Sub-Courthouse/Community CenterAddress: 222 Spur 272, Deweyville1:00 – 2:00 p.m.Newton (Newton County)Location: Newton Seniors’ CenterAddress: 509 Main Street, Newton3:00 – 4:00 p.m.Jasper (Jasper County)Location: Jasper County CourthouseAddress: 121 N. Austin, JasperWednesday, June 24, 20098:00 – 9:00 a.m.Kirbyville (Jasper County)Location: Central Baptist ChurchAddress: 801 S. Margret Street (Hwy 96 South), Kirbyville9:30 – 10:30 a.m.Buna (Jasper County)Location: Buna Chamber of CommerceAddress: 480 State Highway 62, Buna11:00 – 12:00 p.m.Silsbee (Hardin County)Location: First Baptist Church of SilsbeeAddress: 350 HWY 96 S, Silsbee12:30 – 1:30 p.m.Kountze (Hardin County)Location: Kountze Intermediate SchoolAddress: 150 Vaughn Street, Kountze2:30 – 3:30 p.m.Warren (Tyler County)Location: Warren Elementary SchoolAddress: 395 FM 3290 South, Warren4:30 – 5:30 p.m.Colmesneil (Tyler County)Location: Colmesneil City HallAddress: 204 W. Elder, ColmesneilThursday, June 25, 20098:00 – 9:00 a.m.Shepherd (San Jacinto County)Location: McClain’s Food MarketAddress: Hwy 59 & 223, Shepherd9:30 – 10:30 a.m.Goodrich (Polk County)Location: Goodrich United Methodist ChurchAddress: 1229 State Hwy Loop 393, Goodrich11:00 – 12:00 p.m.Livingston (Polk County)Location: Polk County CourthouseAddress: 101 West Church Street, Livingston1:00 – 2:00 p.m.Point Blank (San Jacinto County)Location: City Hall and Community CenterAddress: 101 Count Road, Point Blank3:00 – 4:00 p.m.Trinity (Trinity County)Location: “Old Red” Trinity High SchoolAddress: 101 W. Jefferson, Trinity
06.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), who helped lead congressional efforts in Congress to secure funding for Hurricane Ike recovery share: f t Rep. Brady applauds recovery fundingWashington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands), who helped lead congressional efforts in Congress to secure funding for Hurricane Ike recovery in Texas, applauded the federal government’s announcement today of $1.7 billion to help communities in Texas rebuild housing and infrastructure destroyed by Hurricane Ike. Since January Brady has been urging the Department of Housing and Urban Development to release the second wave of funding that Congress had allocated late last fall. Texas receives $1.7 billion of the allotted $3.9 billion allocated to 11 states HUD within the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program for long-term disaster recovery. “It took longer than we had hoped but our recovery needs remain great in southeast Texas, so our communities are pleased that more help is headed our way”, said Brady.CDBG funds will be used to provide housing assistance, rebuild local critical infrastructure destroyed by the storm, repair our waterways and ports, repair schools and universities, and to provide needed funding to help our small- and medium-sized businesses rebuild.Hurricane Ike was the third most destructive hurricane to hit the United States and the costliest to come through Texas.
06.04.2009	Washington, D.C. - On the eve of what is undoubtedly more bad jobs news, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is concerned that "President Obama's share: f t Washington, D.C. - On the eve of what is undoubtedly more bad jobs news, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is concerned that "President Obama’s tax policies are like kicking a dog when he's down.”“From tax deferral proposals that will cost U.S. corporations revenues and jobs to cap and trade legislation that will tax Americans every time they turn on a light switch, this Administration has continually turned its back on families and businesses,” said Brady.While executives are beginning to chatter, the Houston Chronicle editorialized on these topics this past weekend and urged President Obama to give Brady an open ear.At some point, someone has to say wait a minute – these taxing, spending and job-killing proposals are digging us deeper into an economic hole that is costing American jobs. "It's time to stop digging and climb out," added Brady.The Joint Economic Committee, where Brady is the top House republican, will hold a hearing tomorrow on May’s unemployment numbers at 9:30AM in 106 Dirksen. Live stream will be available tomorrow morning.
05.28.2009	Washington, D.C. - This week is hurricane preparedness and Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is urging coastal residents to gather supplies and documents they share: f t Be prepared, plan for at least 72 hours of supplies says BradyWashington, D.C. - This week is hurricane preparedness and Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is urging coastal residents to gather supplies and documents they will need BEFORE a hurricane threatens Texas.“Hurricanes don’t discriminate,” said Brady. “With all that our area has been through in the past years with Ike and Rita, it is important to make a supply kit, plan ahead and be informed.”Brady also noted that a good rule of thumb is to plan for at least 72 hours of supplies and no emergency support.Hurricane season runs June 1 through Nov. 30. For more information, please visit the Hurricane Season ‘09 webpage.Keep your emergency supplies in easy-to-carry containers. Re-check and refill your hurricane supplies after every storm. Use this checklist:· First-aid kit, prescription medications, copies of prescriptions, other special medical items, hearing aids and batteries, eye glasses· Important documents and records, photo IDs, proof of residence, information to process insurance claims· Credit cards and cash (with power out, banks and ATMs may not be available)· Battery-operated radio, NOAA Weather Radio and extra batteries· Phone numbers of family, friends and other important phone numbers· Road maps, a travel plan, hotel reservations, list of places between your town and your destination to stop if the highways are clogged· 3-day supply of non-perishable food, one gallon of bottled water per person per day, coolers for food and ice storage, paper plates, utensils· Manual can opener, knife, tools, booster cables, fire extinguisher, duct tape, tarp, rope, flashlight· Extra keys· Blankets, pillows, sleeping bags for each person, extra clothing, toys for children· Supplies for babies, the elderly and family members with special health care needs· Toilet paper, cleanup supplies, personal hygiene products· Leash, food, cleaning supplies and veterinary records for pets
05.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement on President Obama's nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor:"Hopefully the United States Senate share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor:"Hopefully the United States Senate has grown to the point that neither her gender nor her race are reasons to confirm – or to deny – her appointment to the Supreme Court.“I just hope that the confirmation process is thorough, rigorous and ensures that the next Supreme Court Justice has a record of applying the law equally to all while avoiding judicial activism.”
05.21.2009	Washington, D.C. - Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement today share: f t Washington, D.C. - Ways and Means Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) and Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement today as the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing on the U.S.-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement:“I commend Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley for holding today’s hearing. It sends a much-needed signal to Panama that the U.S. Congress is serious about considering and passing this important agreement,” said Camp. “As we have seen, the mere starting of our legislative process has the ability to bring about real change from our trading partners, spurring Panama to make yesterday many of the changes to its labor laws that the Obama Administration had requested. I hope that the Ways & Means Committee will begin work on this agreement soon so that American workers and businesses finally have equal access to the Panamanian market.”Trade Subcommittee Ranking Member Brady added, “The benefits of the Panama Trade Promotion Agreement are clear. This agreement would create new customers for American products and services and cement an economic relationship that benefits both countries. I, too, commend Chairman Baucus and Senator Grassley for holding today’s hearing, because it provided the American people with an opportunity to learn more about the benefits the agreement will bring to U.S. workers.”
05.21.2009	Washington, D.C. - This morning U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) was recognized for his unwavering conservative values by the American Conservative Union. The share: f t Sports 95% lifetime rating from American Conservative UnionWashington, D.C. - This morning U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) was recognized for his unwavering conservative values by the American Conservative Union. The ACU’s Rating Award is widely recognized as the “gold standard” conservative assessment of lawmakers in Washington.“The ACU Ratings Award for 2008 is given for Congressman Brady’s support of conservative principles on a wide range of issues,” said ACU Chairman David A. Keene. “Congressman Brady’s lifetime rating of 95% over his years of service reflects a member of Congress conservatives in Texas and across the country can look to for leadership,” Keene continued.Said Brady, who serves on the leadership board of the House Republican Study Committee, “There is no more important time than right now to be fighting for lower taxes, smaller government and free markets. I am honored to be recognized by the ACU.”Criteria and other information about the ACU’s 2008 Rating Award can be found here.
05.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - In a week where America and people learned that the Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds are running out of money share: f t This just seems unreal and I hope it is, says BradyWashington, D.C. - In a week where America and people learned that the Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds are running out of money faster than ever before and the U.S. Treasury ran a deficit of nearly $21 billion last month, news reports show that 8,000-10,000 'stimulus' checks totaling millions of dollars are being mailed out to the dearly departed. In one case, the recipient died 34 years ago – in Italy. “How much money is this Administration going to waste? This just seems unreal and I hope it is,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “As the American people continue to see example after example of the massive waste embedded in the stimulus bill rushed through Congress earlier this year, we must hold the Obama Administration accountable,” added Brady who has consistently advocated for more taxpayer protection in the Administration's spending bills.A description of the criteria for theses payments is on the Social Security Administrations webpage.
05.14.2009	Washington, D.C. - Just two years after many Texans' travel plans to Mexico and other countries were saved by a delay in the passport share: f t The days of crossing the border with a Driver's License or birth certificate are about to end Washington, D.C. - Just two years after many Texans' travel plans to Mexico and other countries were saved by a delay in the passport requirement date, the new passport requirement deadline is fast approaching. Lawmakers like U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) are urging constituents to please plan accordingly. As of June 1, the days of just using a birth certificate or photo I.D. to travel between the U.S. and Mexico, Canada, or the Caribbean are over."Now that travelers to any foreign destination will be required to show a passport to return to the United States, people who are making summer travel plans must start the passport process sooner rather than later,” said Brady. “If someone runs into problems, you can contact my office and we will do our best to help cut through the red tape and get you on your way. But the later you start, the more likely your travel plans will be disrupted.” The Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative (WHTI) affects air, land and sea travel.Air Travel: All persons traveling by air will be required to show a passport.Land and Sea Travel: On June 1, 2009, the rules will require those entering the United States at sea or land ports of entry to have a passport, passport card, or other travel document approved by the Department of Homeland Security. A full list of Caribbean nations requiring passports can be found here. Further information can be found on the State Department's Passport website or the WHTI’s website.
05.12.2009	Washington, D.C. - This week lawmakers in Congress are scrambling to provide a wish list of local transportation earmarks for a bill that extends share: f t Fixing Broken Trust Fund Must Be First PriorityWashington, D.C. - This week lawmakers in Congress are scrambling to provide a wish list of local transportation earmarks for a bill that extends the nation’s highway transportation program for another five years. In 2005, the last time Congress passed the highway re-authorization measure, over 6,000 earmarks totaling nearly $24 billion were inserted in the bill, including the infamous Bridge to Nowhere in Alaska. Rather than submit a list of highway projects, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is submitting a list of four key reforms that Congress should undertake immediately to fix the broken highway trust fund and address the nation’s crumbling transportation system. “Our office has received 40 requests for local transportation projects totaling several billion dollars, and the reality is that that maybe one or two of the smaller ones might get partially funded in this bill,” said Brady. “It’s clear that the critical transportation needs of our communities and region will never be met until Washington finally gets serious about fixing the broken highway trust fund and re-thinks the way we invest in mobility in America.” The federal highway trust fund is expected to run an $8 billion deficit this year, and transportation experts tell lawmakers an additional $ 2.2 trillion over five years is needed to address America’s crumbling transportation system. The highway fund in Texas is in similarly bad shape. From his seat on the Ways and Means Committee that generates much of the revenue that finances America’s infrastructure, Brady believes we can get more bang for the buck for current highway dollars and that lawmakers must address the nation’s transportation challenges – aviation, highways, railway and barge – together rather than as unconnected issues. “America’s transportation vision has drifted ever since the interstate highway system was essentially completed. Plus, our highway funds have shrunk due to inflation and fuel efficiency. We need to fix the larger problem”, noted Brady, who developed the reforms after consulting with local, state and regional transportation leaders. Brady’s reforms include:• Forcing lawmakers to modernize the Highway Trust Fund within two years by sun setting the fund in 2011;• Funding projects not directly related to mobility out of the general fund rather than fuel taxes;• Accelerating projects by streamlining the bulky environmental process; and• Convening a national summit of state, local and national transportation leaders to develop an 21st century infrastructure plan that integrates highways, transit, airports, railways, ports and freight waterways. A fuller explanation of the reforms can be found here.
05.12.2009	Washington, D.C. - In light of the Medicare Trustees' Report that came out today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a member of the House Ways share: f t New Figures show Medicare will be bankrupt by 2017Washington, D.C. - In light of the Medicare Trustees’ Report that came out today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, says "we must act swiftly to reform and preserve Medicare for our children and grandchildren before the program consumes the entire federal budget.”Today’s report showed that the Medicare hospital trust fund continues to spend more money than it takes in. Furthermore, the trust fund will be bankrupt in 2017, two years earlier than predicted last year at this time. With this ominous prospect as a backdrop, Brady has introduced the Medicare Warning Act of 2009. “Instead of sweeping this problem under the rug, the Medicare Warning Act of 2009 brings back the requirement of Congress to address Medicare’s fiscal health when the Medicare Trustees issue a funding warning,” added Brady. Such funding warnings were issued in 2007 and 2008 because general revenue was due to fund 45% of Medicare’s annual costs, but House Democrats found a way to waive the requirement that the White House submit cost saving proposals to Congress.
05.12.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S.Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is urging Texans to get ready for the digital television transition, which is set to take place on June share: f t June 12th just a month awayWashington, D.C. - U.S.Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) is urging Texans to get ready for the digital television transition, which is set to take place on June 12th. That's when all U.S. television stations will begin broadcasting exclusively digital signals. The new deadline was approved by the Obama administration and affects viewers who use ‘rabbit ears’ or rooftop antennas. If you have digital cable or use a satellite, no action is needed. “Texans who rely on ‘rabbit ears’ or rooftop antennas may need to take additional steps that cable and satellite users will not. Now is the time to determine if you are ready -- not after the switch,” said Brady.The national switch to digital-only signals will provide EMS, police and fire fighters with access to bandwidth for critical communications in emergency situations, as well as providing viewers with more channels and better quality pictures and sound. “With this transition occurring at the start of Hurricane season, it is important that Texans take the steps now to determine whether they will need a converter box or a new antenna,” said Brady. DTV converter coupons are still available and Texans can apply for the $40 converter coupon in one of four ways: - On the internet at http://www.dtv2009.gov;- By Calling the DTV 24-hour hotline, 1-888-DTV-2009 (1-888-388-2009), TTY 1-877-530-2634;- By mailing the DTV coupon application (available at www.dtv2009.gov) to P.O. Box 2000, Portland, OR 97208-2000; or- By faxing the DTV coupon application (available at www.dtv2009.gov) to 1-877-DTV-4ME2 (1-877-388-4632).
05.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, reacts to new White House figures that show annual share: f t Serious Spending cuts are what's needed now not more rosy predictionsWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady, the lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, reacts to new White House figures that show annual deficits never dipping below $500 billion through the end of the next decade: "As horrible as these predictions are, the real deficit numbers will be much higher because the White House continues to 'cook the books' by using rosy economic predictions that differ dramatically from those of the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and many private economists. The situation is only poised to get worse now that the Democratic Congress and White House are borrowing nearly fifty cents of every dollar they spend. I urge the President to start making some serious cuts in his budget blueprint now, so our children don't get an even heftier bill later."
05.08.2009	Washington, D.C. - Acting against Congress's intent behind a bipartisan law designed to help people get back to work, the Obama Administration has told share: f t Ill-advised Labor Department plan goes against the wishes of Congress and could delay much needed services, warns BradyWashington, D.C. - Acting against Congress’s intent behind a bipartisan law designed to help people get back to work, the Obama Administration has told nearly half of all states that they must change well-established procedures because they will no longer be able to use non-state “merit” workers, such as private sector contractors, to administer state-run Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for Workers programs. Instead of the current mix of government employees and private sector contractors in Texas and 22 other states, the U.S. Department of Labor arrogantly plans to force Texas and other states to use only state “merit” employees, which ironically will disrupt and delay assistance to unemployed workers. In some states, this means non-unionized workers would be replaced by unionized workers."The Obama Administration is not only thumbing its nose at Congress, it’s planning to demand that hard-working people in the private sector be replaced and that state-run safety net systems for delivering TAA services be disassembled and reorganized at a time when job retraining and placement services are so needed," said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the ranking member of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee.In a letter to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis last week, 14 members of the House Ways & Means Committee including Brady, strongly urged the Secretary to heed Congress's intent on this issue and not mandate that states like Texas use only “state” merit staff. Despite the Committee members' strong concerns, the Obama Administration signaled its planned federal mandate in the new TAA program administration contracts mailed out to the states this week.The stated goal of the newly improved and expanded TAA law is to retrain displaced workers quickly and place them in new career paths. However, if this planned Obama Administration mandate is not stopped, it will require Texas and other states to reorganize their systems for delivering TAA services – at great cost – and take valuable time away from actually providing such services to displaced workers, impacting their ability to get retrained and back to work. Moreover, the quality of vocational counseling is likely to be weakened since state "merit" employees are generally not trained in such a vital area."The affected states have implemented in-depth systems that efficiently and effectively provide high quality services to these people," added Brady. "Why would we take away the states’ rights and flexibility to choose the staffing arrangements that best provide these much needed services?"
05.08.2009	Washington, D.C. - Washington's massive spending appears to be doing damage to more than just the deficit. It's also disproportionately hurting those at the share: f t New data shows more than four times that many lost their private sector jobs in AprilWashington, D.C. - Washington's massive spending appears to be doing damage to more than just the deficit. It's also disproportionately hurting those at the lowest end of the economic scale. New data shows the overall national unemployment rate rose to to 8.9% in April. But, that's only half the story as America's blue collar workers are finding out the hard way. While the unemployment rate for workers with a college degree is 4.4%, it's a disturbing 14.8% for workers without a high school diploma and 9.3% for workers with a high school diploma. Texas' jobless numbers - now at 8.7% - are also rising with the national numbers. Reacting to new figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) showing that 611,000 Americans lost private sector jobs in April, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) asked BLS Commissioner Keith Hall to substantiate the Obama Administration's claims that their policies had already saved 150,000 jobs. "Unfortunately, Commissioner Hall couldn't validate that claim today before the Joint Economic Committee" said Brady. A recent report in The Economist says problem here is 'deeply flawed' economic assumptions. "The administration's combination of underestimated jobless numbers and overestimated economic growth numbers are hiding the real costs of expensive new spending proposals from the American people" added Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.
05.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - At the last moment with little notice, leaders in Congress slipped into the mortgage fraud protection bill considered by the House share: f t Commission to Examine Causes of Financial Crisis Protects Congress from Scrutiny, Says BradyWashington, D.C. - At the last moment with little notice, leaders in Congress slipped into the mortgage fraud protection bill considered by the House this week a provision creating a commission to examine the causes of the unprecedented global financial crisis.Unlike the independent 9-11 Commission, though, the new commission is stacked with Democratic appointees. The original version included representatives of the financial services committees led by Sen. Chris Dodd and Rep. Barney Frank who many experts identify as having contributed to the housing, banking and securities collapse. After protest, that provision was pulled in favor of a majority of appointees by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Leader Harry Reid.The commission, a ten member panel with six Democrats in charge, will focus on the actions of private companies and regulating agencies, leaving unexamined the role of Congress in contributing to the worst economic recession since the Great Depression.“This commission is a sham. Like the fox guarding the henhouse, it shields Congress from scrutiny and protects lawmakers from being held accountable for the decisions they made that helped create this crisis,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the ranking House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.Brady and another member of the Joint Economic Committee, Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) have introduced H.R. 2111, the Congressional Commission on Financial Accountability and Preparedness Act that uses the highly respected 9-11 Commission as its model: an independent, equally-balanced panel to delve into all factors that contributed to the financial abuses and collapse including the role of lawmakers in Congress.So when will the Democratic-led panel report its work? December, 2010 – one month after the next congressional elections.“That’s no coincidence,” observes Brady.
04.30.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 627, a bill that imposes price controls on credit share: f t {Insert Secondary Periodic Document Title}Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 627, a bill that imposes price controls on credit card companies and undermines the free market by giving politicians free reign to control prices and place the financial burden for the system on responsible consumers:“Many of the common sense reforms in this bill have already been mandated by the Federal Reserve, and putting the federal government in charge of an industry is never a good thing. My worry is this bill could backfire on the very people it's supposed to protect - responsible credit users. If the government hamstrings the credit companies ability to raise the cost of credit for the risky borrowers, those losses will simply shift onto the backs of the 70% of Americans who use their credit cards responsibly. A better way to protect consumers is legislation I'm co-sponsoring that requires credit card companies to notify card users ninety days in advance of any change in interest rates, fees or the agreement so those of us who use credit cards can choose to either pay it off or switch the balance to a friendlier card."
04.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - For the third time in as many months the Democrat-controlled House pushed through a massive government spending bill while preventing lawmakers share: f t Brady votes “no” on doubling the national debtWashington, D.C. - For the third time in as many months the Democrat-controlled House pushed through a massive government spending bill while preventing lawmakers from studying the measure before rushing it to a vote.Brushing aside House rules that allow lawmakers to study a bill for 72 hours prior to a vote, the Pelosi-Obama budget for the 2010 fiscal year passed today on a bitter party-line vote. Budget experts say it dramatically increases government spending, raises taxes by $1.5 trillion – the largest in U.S. history – and doubles the national debt in just five years.“This new government has set America on a dangerous path toward insolvency”, said Brady, the top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “We may well never see a balanced budget again in our lifetime. The interest payments on this new debt alone will cost taxpayers an unbelievable $1 billion a day.”The new budget proposes federal spending of $3.555 trillion dollars in 2010. By 2014, the debt will rise to 2/3rds of the American economy, while some economists predict it will top 80 percent – a reason some countries are calling for a new global currency to be more sound than the U.S. dollar.The budget conference report passed without a single Republican vote and 11 Democrats who rejected their party’s budget blueprint.Click here or here to watch Congressman Kevin Brady talk about the budget.
04.29.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) voted against creating a new federal offense for crimes potentially motivated by the victims sexual orientation, share: f t Brady Opposes Expansion for Sexual Orientation and “Gender Identity”Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) voted against creating a new federal offense for crimes potentially motivated by the victims sexual orientation, ‘gender identity’ or the ‘perceived’ thoughts of the alleged criminal."Violent crime against someone simply because of the color of their skin, their religion or because they are gay is repulsive. Punishment should be severe,” said Brady. “But in America, equal justice under the law requires that all victims of violent crime deserve justice.”Brady also noted that there is a genuine concern among local religious leaders that politically-motivated prosecutors could criminalize them simply for teaching their religious beliefs. “Last week we saw the Department of Homeland Security label as national security threats Americans who hold certain beliefs such as states rights, pro-life or secure borders. A government that conducts values profiling could easily use this new law to prosecute the free speech of those with whom they disagree,” said Brady.“I don’t trust the government with these new powers.”Congressman Brady was joined in his concerns by Pastor Reagan Cooksey of Northside Baptist Church in Huntsville, Texas, who said “if this bill is passed into law it will severely hamper the presentation of the truth of God’s word by people who are called to do so.”
04.27.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after joining many of his colleagues on Capitol Hill in asking Department of Homeland share: f t {Insert Secondary Periodic Document Title}Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady issued the following statement after joining many of his colleagues on Capitol Hill in asking Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to come to Capitol Hill to answer questions about the Office of Intelligence and Analysis' April 7th Report: "In America we don't tolerate racial profiling, so why should we tolerate values profiling? As the brother of a Master Sergeant in the U.S, Army who has served his country in Iraq, I want to know the reasons for issuing a report so insulting to our veterans and to all Americans who believe in life and limited government. My brother is not an extremist, he's my hero." Click here and here to see Mr. Brady address this issue on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives.
04.25.2009	Washington, D.C. - Barely half way through the budget year, the federal government has run through all your tax money. On this Sunday, April share: f t Washington, D.C. - Barely half way through the budget year, the federal government has run through all your tax money. On this Sunday, April 26th, Washington will begin charging every dime spent.“The fact that Debt Day arrives at its earliest date on the calendar ever should be a huge red flag -- not only to the Obama Administration and the Congressional Leadership -- but to every taxpayer as well” said Congressman Brady (R-TX), the Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. "The spending train has got to return to the station before our economic future is derailed."In less than 100 days, the Democrats have moved debt day up more than 100 days. Last year, debt day fell on August 5th. “With the Stimulus, numerous bailouts and this year’s budget, trillions are flying out the door in what seems to be either a nightmare or a bad episode of the Twilight Zone,” Brady added. "What we need to be doing is reigning in government spending and lowering taxes on small businesses so they can start growing and hiring again. That's the key to eventually wipe Debt Day off our calendars."
04.23.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) joined with Social Security Sub-Committee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-Texas) to re-introduce the New Employee Verification Act share: f t Rep. Brady introduces bill to bring federal Employee Verification into 21st CenturyWashington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) joined with Social Security Sub-Committee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-Texas) to re-introduce the New Employee Verification Act (NEVA) which provides companies two user-friendly ways to verify the legal status of their workers. “Not only is the current Social Security system slow and inaccurate, but if we require all companies to use E-Verify it will collapse the system”, said Brady, a member of the Social Security panel. “We are proposing a convenient, more accurate tool for businesses to verify legal status of their workers and for workers to reclaim their Social Security identity if stolen. This will remove the job magnet for illegal workers and protect companies and workers who comply with the law.” In a recent Rasmussen Poll, 68% of Americans said they want strict government sanctions imposed on those who hire illegal immigrants. Background on the New Employee Verification Act of 2009 • Requires all employers to enroll in one of two user-friendly and reliable electronic verification systems: the Electronic Employment Verification System (EEVS) that builds upon the lessons learned in the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS’s) E-Verify program or the Secure Electronic Employment Verification System (SEEVS).• Avoids the creation of new government bureaucracies to administer the employment verification system and does not require any new national or state identification cards to facilitate the process, thus saving billions of dollars as well as preventing another opportunity for identity fraud. • Prevents wages earned through future unauthorized work from being used to determine benefits.
04.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Twenty-five years after the story of the "Boy in the Plastic Bubble" captured the world's attention, this week congressional lawmakers from share: f t Primary Immune Deficiency Patients deserve a normal life, says BradyWashington, D.C. - Twenty-five years after the story of the “Boy in the Plastic Bubble” captured the world’s attention, this week congressional lawmakers from both parties joined together to ensure that Americans struggling with immune deficiencies receive affordable, effective treatment under the nation’s Medicare program.Leaders of the effort in Washington include U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady whose district includes Shenandoah, Texas, the home of David Vetter – who from birth to his death at age 12 was confined inside a specially sterilized cocoon to combat severe combined immune deficiency syndrome – a condition absent the body’s natural ability to fight off infections. The Medicare Patient IVIG Access Act of 2009 updates the payment process for the intravenous plasma treatment and makes it more affordable and accessible through Medicare.“For those with immune deficiency, IVIG therapy in the right setting and at the right price is critical to sustaining a normal life”, said Brady, who has championed the issue as a member of the House Ways & Means Committee. “A cookie cutter approach in Medicare can be dangerous for patients, and our bill ensures that Medicare addresses their unique needs in a timely and cost-effective manner.”David Vetter’s mom has dedicated her life to finding better treatments and research into the disease.“Looking back at my struggle with my son David's condition so many years ago, I am thankful that IVIG provides many with an effective treatment that allows them to live normal lives," said Carol Ann Demaret. "It is troubling to know that so many Medicare beneficiaries have difficulty obtaining IVIG. This legislation will provide the means for Medicare to review and update its IVIG payment policy and hopefully to improve access." "Songs were written and movies made honoring David," added Brady, "but the best way to honor his struggle is to make this necessary treatment available to those who need it."
04.17.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) today expressed his concern about potential overreaction to the Mexican drug violence. "The solution must rely upon share: f t Enforcement of current laws instead of bans and blame says BradyWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) today expressed his concern about potential overreaction to the Mexican drug violence. "The solution must rely upon strong enforcement of existing laws by both U.S. and Mexican authorities,” said Brady. “Ending the violence and bloodshed by lawless drug cartels is the issue, not a divisive return to failed policies that infringe upon the American people’s Second Amendment rights.“The outbreak of drug violence in Mexico should not be used to undermine the Second Amendment, a right so many Americans cherish," added Brady, a strong supporter in Congress of the constitutionally protected right to keep and bear arms.
04.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today called for an overhaul of America's tax share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, today called for an overhaul of America’s tax code. "Whether it is the Fair Tax or a flat tax, getting the IRS out of our daily lives and getting our families off the April 15th form filing treadmill should be our goal." “Our tax code is like a 1978 AMC Pacer and I think we all can agree that it needs more than just a little tune-up,” said Brady, "it needs to be sent to the scrap heap with the Gremlins and Pintos. If President Obama's Cabinet appointees can't seem to figure it out, how can Congress expect Texas families and small businesses to?"Congressman Brady is a co-sponsor of the Fair Tax (H.R. 25), a straightforward, growth-oriented replacement for our onerous tax code. The Fair Tax will eliminate all Federal income taxes and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), in favor of a 23 percent personal consumption tax on all new goods and services. Noting that in 1910, Tax Freedom Day was on January 19th, almost a full three months earlier than this year, Brady added "we can and we must take back April 15th for our families and the FairTax can do that."
04.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Shortly after a partisan Congress pushed through the largest federal budget in history, Texans can savor a small victory in the share: f t With major tax hikes to come, it will be a short celebrationWashington, D.C. - Shortly after a partisan Congress pushed through the largest federal budget in history, Texans can savor a small victory in the form of Tax Freedom Day – April 6. This is the first day of 2009 that Texas families begin working for themselves. Since New Years they have been working just to pay their state, local and federal taxes. “We are an overtaxed nation. Today, Texas families can finally enjoy the benefits of their hard work instead of feeding bigger and bigger government,” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a member of the House Ways & Means Committee.Brady predicts major tax hikes in the future on America’s middle-class and small businesses as Democrat-led Washington seeks to pay for the massive spending spree of the last three months. So Tax Freedom Day in coming years is likely to fall much later, forcing taxpayers to work longer for the government rather than themselves. “We can’t spend, borrow and then tax our way back to prosperity. The burden on taxpayers is already too great,” said Brady, who opposed President Obama’s stimulus plan and budget. Tax Freedom Day for Texas is soon than the national day - April 13th. Residents of Alaska celebrated first on March 23rd while those in Connecticut again trail the country on April 30th. The non-partisan Tax Foundation, calculates Tax Freedom Day annually in an effort to educate taxpayers about sound tax policy and the size of the tax burden borne by Americans at all levels of government.
04.01.2009	Washington, D.C. - As Americans grow increasingly worried about Washington's unprecedented spending spree, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is backing an alternative to President share: f t Obama-Democrat budget Guarantees Red Ink for Decades; Brady Backs a Return to Balanced BudgetsWashington, D.C. - As Americans grow increasingly worried about Washington's unprecedented spending spree, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is backing an alternative to President Obama’s and congressional Democrats massive new budget.“The president’s budget raises taxes, explodes spending and heaps on mountains of new debt for the next decade,” said Congressman Kevin Brady. “America’s finances are on the wrong track. We need to change the path now or risk never seeing a balanced budget in our lifetime.” Brady fears all the new debt will drag the economy down further and eventually lead to higher inflation – which hurts families by eroding paychecks and their nest eggs. He is backing a GOP alternative that lowers spending by $5 trillion, preserves tax relief for all Americans, creates new jobs and starts the reforms necessary to preserve Social Security and Medicare."We can’t spend, tax and borrow our way back to prosperity. Congress has a responsibility to get on a more responsible path that leads back to a balanced budget,” said Brady, the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. The Republican alternative focuses on job creation through small businesses by lowering taxes, creating incentives to hire or keep workers, and encouraging private investment rather than more government bailouts.(Republican alternative budget)
03.31.2009	Washington, D.C. - After voting against the so-called GIVE Act, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) expressed his disappointment in Congress for continuing to use tax share: f t Rep. Brady says tax dollars shouldn’t pay for volunteersWashington, D.C. - After voting against the so-called GIVE Act, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) expressed his disappointment in Congress for continuing to use tax dollars to fund controversial social agendas:“Whether or not to support a cause should always be a personal decision, not a political dictate. As our food banks, shelters and other overburdened charitable agencies battle the White House over a devastating proposal to slash charitable tax deductions, the Democrat-controlled Congress wants to spend over $9.3 billion on ‘volunteers' who could be working side-by-side with controversial organizations like Planned Parenthood and ACORN."
03.25.2009	Washington, D.C. - While Congress struggles to address housing problems across America, lawmakers from the House Republican Economic Working Group – including Texas share: f t GOP plan helps families, neighborhoods stabilize home prices & protect property values Washington, D.C. - While Congress struggles to address housing problems across America, lawmakers from the House Republican Economic Working Group – including Texas Congressman Kevin Brady - today proposed an alternative to government handouts to irresponsible borrowers and lenders – expensive bailouts which have raised the ire of American taxpayers. The Responsible Homeowners Act seeks to reward responsible behavior by offering incentives to help people afford to stay in their homes, buy a new one or invest in a neighborhood property that preserves local property values. “The best way to stabilize home prices and protect neighborhood property values is to encourage local solutions rather than wait for Washington to eventually get around to doing something, which will most likely be wrong”, said Brady. “These are new ideas that reward responsible behavior and attract new private investment to solve our housing problems.” The "Responsible Homeowners Act" lowers mortgage costs for responsible homeowners who are at risk through no fault their own, like a job loss. It provides a $5,000 refinancing tax credit to help all families cover mortgage refinancing costs, buy down points or reduce their principal balance. It also offers a $15,000 home purchase credit if a buyer puts at least 5% down, and protects companies from lawsuits if they act responsibly to modify a mortgage for someone in need. In the bill, Brady creates a new incentive for neighbors to step in to buy abandoned, foreclosed or distressed homes in their neighborhood and community, protecting them from capital gains taxes just as if it was their primary residence. “If someone buys another home in their neighborhood or community and maintains it or rents it out until property values rebound, why shouldn’t they keep the gains? Its good for the neighborhood and will bring home prices back sooner”, said Brady. “My belief is that If you invest in your neighborhood, we’ll invest in you. Given a choice between the government buying homes in your neighborhood or a neighbor, which would you choose? Right now owners of their primary home can exclude up to $250,000 in capital gains from their taxes when the house is sold, twice that amount for married couples. Brady would treat investment in another property in the community or neighborhood the same way.
03.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - During a hearing in the House Ways and Means Committee today, Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) urged Social Security Commissioner Michael share: f t Rep. Kevin Brady elicits commitment at Congressional Hearing Washington, D.C. - During a hearing in the House Ways and Means Committee today, Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) urged Social Security Commissioner Michael Astrue to detail actions to increase investigations of fraud by those applying for and receiving federal disability funds. In response, Astrue committed to Rep. Brady that he would report back to the Committee with a plan to tackle this growing problem within a month. “There is far too much fraud in the disability system. It steals from taxpayers and it harms those who are truly disabled", said Brady. "Congress should send a clear signal that we will investigate and prosecute those who are fraudulently applying for disability as well as individuals on disability who are working or whose medical conditions have changed."Experts estimate as much as $11 billion of fraud exists within the disability system. More than 1.4 million scheduled investigations have been put on hold due to inadequate resources at the federal level, and the backlog is growing. "We need a clear plan of action and I welcome Commissioner Astrue’s commitment to providing us one," Brady added.By law, the Social Security Administration (SSA) is required to conduct periodic continuing disability reviews (CDR) to evaluate the medical status of individuals receiving Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). These reviews are extremely effective, resulting in $10 in savings for every $1 invested. However, the frequency of these reviews has fallen over the last six years and it is estimated that billions of dollars in benefits are now being paid to individuals who are no longer disabled. The severity of this situation was recently detailed in an article in The Oregonian entitled, “Cheaters cost Social Security billions,” which indicated that as much as $11 billion is potentially being paid to individuals who are no longer eligible for SSDI.“It is simply unacceptable that tens of thousands may be receiving benefits they no longer deserve, costing the taxpayers countless billions,” stated Brady.During the mid-1990s, the Republican-led Congress appropriated special funds exclusively for CDRs leading to the elimination of the backlog by 2002. However, a lack of funding over the last six years has led to a current backlog of 1.4 million reviews. Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Commission, serves on the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Social Security and as the lead Republican on the Trade Subcommittee.
03.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement after voting no on a bill rushed to the floor by congressional Democrats share: f t Demands 100 Percent of Bonuses ReturnedWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement after voting no on a bill rushed to the floor by congressional Democrats to tax bonuses on AIG and other recipients of bailout funds:“Taxpayers have a simple question: When did the White House know about the bonuses and why didn't they stop them? The government owns AIG, for heaven's sake, so don't tell me they couldn't have stopped them if they truly wanted to.“This bill doesn't answer the taxpayer’s questions. It's simply an attempt to shift the blame from Democrats and the White House who at the last moment snuck approval for these bonuses into the Obama stimulus bill.“I want 100 percent of the bonuses returned. And I want the truth.”Instead, Congressman Brady, the senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, supports HR 1577 which would direct the Treasury Secretary to implement a plan within the next two weeks to recoup or stay the payment of AIG bonuses and block any further federal assistance until the bonuses are paid back.
03.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - The tax increases in President Obama's proposed budget could cost 300,000 jobs in independent drilling production alone. Those were the share: f t Proposed Obama Administration Tax Increases Could Cost 300,000 Independent Energy Jobs AloneWashington, D.C. - The tax increases in President Obama’s proposed budget could cost 300,000 jobs in independent drilling production alone. Those were the startling figures that Mark Metzler, the President of Felderhoff Production Company and the current Chairman of Texas Alliance of Energy Producers, told a Congressional panel today.Metzler also predicted the Obama Administration tax increase would slash the already falling rig count in half. “It just doesn’t make sense to tax the industry that is the lifeblood of our way of life,” said Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas). “We should be focusing on finding new sources of American energy as a positive step to repairing our economy instead seeking ways to destroy.”During the nearly two hour hearing, dozens of small business leaders from around the country told members of Congress how the Obama Administration’s proposed tax increases will devastate their businesses and in some cases even put them out of business.“Drastic spending bills and out-of-control budgets were already having a negative impact on job creators,” added Brady, “when will this tax train stop?”The President’s budget is slated to drastically increase taxes on independent energy producers, who are responsible for up 90% of energy produced here at home and essential to helping the United States reach the goal of becoming energy independent.Brady, a member of the House Ways & Means Committee, serves as the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee
03.16.2009	Houston, TX. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) met today in Houston with officials from the Social Security Administration ahead of a share: f t Gets inside track in Houston meeting with top disability fraud investigatorsHouston, TX. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) met today in Houston with officials from the Social Security Administration ahead of a congressional hearing next week to examine fraud in the federal disability program. Brady, who requested the hearing of the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Social Security, says scammers may be draining up to $11 billion from the Social Security Disability Insurance Trust Fund that helps more than seven million disabled Americans."We have a responsibility to taxpayers and the truly disabled to make sure these precious dollars are not lost to fraud and those trying to game the system”, said Brady, a member of the Social Security panel.Brady met Monday with Patrick O’Carroll, Jr., inspector general of the Social Security Administration, and leaders of the Houston Cooperative Disability Investigative (CDI) unit which includes team members from the Social Security Administration, the Inspector General’s office, the state disability agency and Harris County law enforcement.Since the Houston unit was formed in 2000, the team has successfully terminated 1,003 cases, saving taxpayers nearly $9O million. The unit investigates disability fraud in applicants faking impairments as well as those concealing work payments or medical improvements while receiving disability payments.O’Carroll told the congressman that 14 tax dollars are saved for every dollar Congress allots to investigate disability fraud allegations. The Social Security Administration is required to conduct continuing disability reviews on each case.In one particularly egregious case from last year, a dead man was actually put in a wheelchair and brought to a check-cashing store in New York so one of his friends could cash his check (Source: Reuters 1/9/08).
03.12.2009	Washington, D.C. - Over the first 50 days of the Obama administration, Democrats have spent $24 billion a day – or $1 billion an share: f t White House, New Congress Spending $1 Billion…An Hour! Washington, D.C. - Over the first 50 days of the Obama administration, Democrats have spent $24 billion a day – or $1 billion an hour. And most of it is borrowed money, to be repaid by higher taxes or as debt on future generations say budget experts. "This is the largest spending spree since World War II and will lead to higher taxes, slower economic growth and a crushing debt burden on middle-class families," says U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. At this rate, in three years Congress will have added more debt than in all eight years of the Bush Administration. Yesterday, House Democratic leaders announced another stimulus spending bill – this one around half a trillion dollars – is likely on its way. "If we don’t get this obscene level of spending under control soon, we will never see a balanced budget again in our lifetimes, " said Brady, who has proposed the Spending Reform Act of 2009 to address the budget crisis. Brady, who serves on the House Ways and Means Committee, is the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee
03.11.2009	Washington, D.C. - Representatives Joseph Crowley, Kevin Brady, Rick Larsen, and Wally Herger re-introduced the House Caucus for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation to the 111th share: f t Washington, D.C. - Representatives Joseph Crowley, Kevin Brady, Rick Larsen, and Wally Herger re-introduced the House Caucus for Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation to the 111th Congress. Originally formed last November, the APEC Caucus is designed to work with APEC officials and interested stakeholders on issues affecting U.S. interests in the Asia-Pacific region, including trade, energy, finance and investment, climate change, agriculture, intellectual property rights, food safety, and corporate social responsibility. Representative Crowley noted that “the United States will host the APEC Leaders Meeting and other Ministerial meetings in 2011, creating an important opportunity for U.S. business, workers, and policymakers.”“Greater U.S. engagement in the fast-growing Asia-Pacific region is critical if we are to remain globally competitive, and APEC is a key forum,” said Representative Brady.Representative Rick Larsen indicated that once established, the Caucus plans to meet regularly with policymakers, political leaders, academics, and business leaders to discuss the goals and priorities of APEC. “We plan to help drive active U.S. participation in APEC and development of a robust agenda for 2011,” he said. “The House APEC Caucus will be an important part of educating the Congress, the Administration, and the general public about the importance of playing a more significant role in economic matters in the Asia-Pacific region,” said Representative Herger.Background on Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)Under the APEC structure, twenty-one of the world’s leading economies, including the United States, China, Japan, Australia, Canada, Mexico, Singapore and others, come together to facilitate economic growth and shared strategic objectives. Membership includes more than two-thirds of the world’s population and accounts for over 50 percent of global trade. The trans-Pacific nature of APEC bridges the Americas and Asia, and it is the only regional forum that formally acknowledges the integral economic linkage between the two hemispheres. APEC’s Annual Leaders’ Meeting brings together world leaders to address bilateral issues, as well as collectively tackle some of the world’s most pressing economic, energy, and security challenges. APEC’s unique structure – a diverse spectrum of ministerial meetings and official networks leading up to an annual Summit or “Leaders’ Meeting” – enables pursuit of a very broad agenda. Macro level topics – trade and investment; energy and climate change; food supply; security; disaster readiness – are all addressed at a region-wide level. The U.S. will host APEC in 2011.
03.10.2009	Washington, D.C. - Reps. Ellen Tauscher (D-Calif.) and Kevin Brady (R-Texas) led a bipartisan letter asking President Barack Obama to continue negotiating the share: f t Need for New 21st Century Trade Markets prompts Members of Congress to ask the President to pursue the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership AgreementWashington, D.C. - Reps. Ellen Tauscher (D-Calif.) and Kevin Brady (R-Texas) led a bipartisan letter asking President Barack Obama to continue negotiating the Trans-Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement (TPP).More than 40 members of Congress from both parties signed the letter, which expresses hope that the first round of comprehensive negotiations can begin this spring.“I am looking forward to working in a bipartisan way with President Obama to restore America’s economic strength through a balanced, proactive trade agenda,” Rep. Ellen Tauscher said. “Negotiating the TPP is one step in that direction and an important step to help recover from the current economic crisis. Our engagement in TPP also shows we can expand our cooperation with allies in the region.”“Expanding trade of U.S. goods in the Asia-Pacific region is in our nation’s economic and strategic interest and a necessary component to our 21st Century Trade Agenda,” said Brady, who is the Ranking Republican on the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Trade. “Strengthening our ties in a region that accounts for half of the world’s economy will add new U.S. jobs and new markets for U.S. goods and services.”Since the U.S. started talking with Singapore, Chile, Brunei and New Zealand, more countries -- such as Australia, Vietnam and Peru -- have expressed interest in signing on to the TPP.
03.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - The leading House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee says future labor statistics could be compromised if the White House exerts share: f t Brady Raises Concerns at Joint Economic Hearing on February Unemployment NumbersWashington, D.C. - The leading House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee says future labor statistics could be compromised if the White House exerts increased influence over the U.S. Census bureau.U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) says Americans worried about new unemployment numbers shouldn’t have an added worry about whether the government’s statistics are grounded in reality or politics.“We don’t need the Census manipulated. In this economic crisis we must have complete confidence that U.S. unemployment data is free of political influence as well”, said Brady.The Census Bureau conducts the household survey that reveals critical monthly labor numbers. Brady made it clear to Bureau of Labor Statistics Director Keith Hall that “it’s critical that the Labor Statistics Bureau has no hint of actual - or appearance - of political influence.”Amid concerns that the White House will exert direct control over the 2010 Census and the Census Bureau, Brady asked Hall point blank “Is it important for your data that the Census Bureau be completely free of any political appearance – or interference – from either party?” Hall responded “Absolutely!”The BLS announced Friday that the US Unemployment rate rose to 8.1% in January.Serving his seventh term in Congress, Brady is the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX) today introduced the Public Servant Retirement Protection Act to share: f t House and Senate Work Together to Repeal Arbitrary Windfall Elimination Provision Washington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (R-TX) today introduced the Public Servant Retirement Protection Act to prevent teachers and public servants from losing retirement benefits in this struggling economy.The measure repeals the current law requirement called the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP), which unfairly reduces the Social Security of teachers and other public servants who also earn retirement from a Social Security substitute, such as the Texas Teacher Retirement System. The bill replaces the WEP with a formula that gives equal treatment to public servants for the years they contributed to Social Security, returning an estimated $8 billion to workers impacted today.“Teachers, first responders and public service workers in Texas carefully plan for their later years. They deserve to receive benefits that are calculated accurately and represent their contributions to the Social Security system,” said Sen. Hutchison. “This legislation is the next step toward ensuring appropriate Social Security benefits for all Americans.”“Hard working public servants should be allowed to keep every cent they worked for and should not have their wallets emptied by a flawed system,” said Rep. Brady, a member of the Social Security subcommittee. “If you paid into Social Security you should receive the benefit you are entitled to, just like everyone else.”When a worker's career history includes jobs covered by Social Security and jobs in a Social Security substitute, the government reduces the Social Security benefit by up to $372 a month. The Public Servant Retirement Protection Act accurately tailors the Social Security benefit to each worker for the wages and years they contributed to Social Security and to the Social Security substitute, thereby increasing the benefit for approximately 1 million workers now impacted by the Windfall Elimination Provision.
02.26.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, joined with U.S. Senator John Thune, vice share: f t Senate-House Working Group to Shine Light on Massive Stimulus Spending Results Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), the top House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, joined with U.S. Senator John Thune, vice chairman of the Republican Conference and Congressman Eric Cantor, House minority whip, to launch the House-Senate Fiscal Responsibility Working Group. The panel will shine a public light on the more than $1 trillion of new federal spending in President Obama’s stimulus and other Washington spending measures. Click Here to View Press Conference Video“Washington is getting set to rain cash down upon America. We want the public to know where it lands and if it grows jobs as promised,” said Brady.
02.25.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas) voted against a massive $410 billion Omnibus federal spending bill. The funding bill for the federal share: f t Brady Criticizes Out of Control Federal SpendingWashington, D.C. - Today, Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas) voted against a massive $410 billion Omnibus federal spending bill. The funding bill for the federal government’s 2009 fiscal year follows last weeks record-setting $787 billion stimulus spending measure.“How can the President possibly cut the deficit in half, as promised, when every bill sets a new record for spending,” asks Brady. “This is one of the largest increases in normal spending since WWII, and the growing debt is simply mind-boggling.”Brady is pushing a freeze on non-essential spending and an annual cap on future years to help the President reach his goal.The Omnibus Bill (H.R. 1105 – Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009) represents the largest increase in non-emergency federal discretionary spending since the Carter Administration. Overall the funding provided in both the “stimulus” and the Omnibus is $680 billion in FY 2009, which is an 80% increase in spending this year alone.“In just two short years, the increase to the national debt is larger than the total amount of debt accumulated by the federal government from 1789 to 1985,” explained Brady. “There is no doubt, it is time for Congress to fundamentally reform the way it does business.”
02.24.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, made the following statement in share: f t Good Ideas, Eager to See the SubstanceWashington, D.C. - Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas), a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee, made the following statement in response to tonight’s Presidential Address:“I agree with the President that we need to address education and energy, housing and healthcare, but right now the American public is hungry for details. How will these grand plans get our economy back on track? When will we see results? Who’s going to end up paying for all this new spending? Unfortunately tonight we didn’t get those answers. Granted, our new president has only been in office a few weeks, but the sooner the White House can fill in the blanks the sooner we can get to work crafting real solutions.”
02.20.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) sent a letter to President Barack Obama, in advance of his Fiscal Responsibility Summit on Monday, share: f t Sends Letter to President Obama in Wake of Fiscal Responsibility SummitWashington, D.C. - Today Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) sent a letter to President Barack Obama, in advance of his Fiscal Responsibility Summit on Monday, inviting him to consider his Spending Reform Act of 2009 as a model for future fiscal responsibility initiatives.“I know the President is taking our financial crisis very seriously and that is why I am asking him to consider some key points to reign in thoughtless government spending,” said Brady. “Our nation is drowning in debt, reaching near record levels, and dragging down our economy causing significant harm to our future generations. It is time we did something and that time must be now.”Congressman Brady sits as the lead Republican on the Joint Economic Committee and as a Ranking Member of the Powerful Ways and Means Committee.
02.13.2009	Washington, D.C. - Amid declining public support for the controversial $787 billion stimulus bill congressional Democrats rushed through Congress, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) share: f t Democrat Congress Rains Billions of Pork on Special Interests; No Economic HelpWashington, D.C. - Amid declining public support for the controversial $787 billion stimulus bill congressional Democrats rushed through Congress, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement after opposing the measure:“We all want the President to succeed in getting the economy moving, but this pork-laden bill is a hand-out to special interest groups that does little to create jobs - and may well harm our economy before its done,” said Brady, the senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. “It’s too slow, too expensive and will lead to a massive tax increase on middle-class families and small businesses. The president wanted a bi-partisan bill that focused on jobs. Congressional Democrats gave him a partisan bill chock full of frivolous spending.” Brady served on the GOP working group that proposed an alternative that economists say would create twice as many jobs – 6.2 million – at half the cost. Click Here to Listen to Congressman Brady Speak on behalf of true Americans
02.12.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R- Texas) introduced legislation to allow college students – or their parents – to include the costs share: f t Legislation Introduced to Cover Necessary College ExpensesWashington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Kevin Brady (R- Texas) introduced legislation to allow college students – or their parents – to include the costs of books, supplies, room and board, and child care expenses in the Hope Scholarship Tax Credit.Today the Hope Scholarship Tax Credit, which allows taxpayers to claim up to $1,800 a year for the first two years of college, is limited to tuition and fees paid to the college. However, Congressman Brady and community colleges argue that other costs are even more expensive and should be counted toward the credit.On average yearly tuition for a full-time community college student was $2,361; yet the full cost is over $13,000 when room and board, books, supplies, transportation and other expenses are included.“Making College more affordable, especially in those critical first two years, is crucial to the advancement, education, and productive future of our young people,” said Brady. “All of the expenses associated with college add up quickly. Under this bill hundreds of thousands of community college students and their parents would save money, something we all look forward to doing during this tough economy.”The Chancellor of Lone Star College, Dr. Richard Carpenter, noted that, “This credit is vital not only to our students, but ultimately to our overall economy as well. Allowing this tax credit will promote opportunities that will create jobs, while simultaneously helping students get the educations they need to fill these jobs and stimulate our economy.”This legislation, which is supported by the American Association of Community Colleges, stipulates eligible students must be attending college on at least a half-time basis for one academic period, and working toward a degree, certificate, or credential, and the credit can only be claimed during the first two years of study.
02.10.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today by letter Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) urged Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and the Pentagon to make good on its share: f t Seeking Answers to Who Installed & Maintained Faulty Equipment that Killed Huntsville Soldier and OthersWashington, D.C. - Today by letter Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) urged Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and the Pentagon to make good on its promise to identify the contractors responsible for installing and maintaining mechanical equipment tied to the accidental electrocution of U.S. personnel in Iraq. This request comes in the wake of the death of Staff Sergeant Christopher Everett of Huntsville, Texas, who was fatally injured in Iraq in 2005 while cleaning a Humvee with a power washer that was improperly grounded.“In a Congressional hearing last year the Pentagon assured me this report would be delivered by last September. Despite repeated requests, they have failed to do so or to even give us a timetable for completion,” said Brady, who is working with Sergeant Everett’s mom, Larraine McGhee, to determine responsibility for the electrocutions which have taken the lives of 13 U.S. servicemen and contractors.“All we are seeking are answers to help us make sure we prevent another senseless death of a U.S. service person,” said Brady. “We are not going to stop until we get those answers, and I’m convinced Secretary Gates will help get to the bottom of this.”LEGISLATION INTRODUCEDLast week Congressman Brady teamed up with fellow Texan Congressman Solomon Ortiz (D-Corpus Christi) to introduced H.R. 894, the Ensuring Safe Facilities and Equipment for American Troops Overseas Act to make sure industry standards are maintained for mechanical equipment installed on military bases overseas. This includes fire protection, electrical systems, structural integrity, water treatment and telecommunications networks.
02.04.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after voting against an unwise SCHIP expansion that doesn't put the neediest Americans share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement after voting against an unwise SCHIP expansion that doesn’t put the neediest Americans first:“I supported the Children’s Health Insurance Program when it was created as a sensible way to cover kids not eligible for Medicaid, but too poor to afford private insurance. However, this bill irresponsibly expands CHIP to allow states to cover kids from higher income families without requiring them to cover poor kids first. Furthermore, it uses “fuzzy math” and budget gimmicks to make it appear that it is paid for when in reality it is not. I support expanding CHIP, but we need to do it responsibly and in a way that makes sure we put poor kids first.”
02.04.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) released the following statement after voting against delaying the transition to Digital Television: "This whole thing share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-The Woodlands) released the following statement after voting against delaying the transition to Digital Television:"This whole thing is becoming a big mess. Delaying the deadline will be terribly confusing for households, cause problems for firefighters and EMS agencies trying to coordinate their communications and cost our local television stations a lot of unnecessary money during tough economic times."
02.03.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and 70 members of Congress have written to President Obama requesting that newly re-opened areas in the share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) and 70 members of Congress have written to President Obama requesting that newly re-opened areas in the Outer Continental Shelf remain open for oil and gas exploration. “It’s important that President Obama steer a central, balanced path toward our energy future,” said Brady. “Tapping these energy resources would create more than 160,000 jobs over the next two decades.”The letter is being delivered today to the White House and Department of the Interior, as the White House considers policy changes that would reverse the 5-year leasing plan of deep ocean waters in the Outer Continental Shelf. “Energy independence is a critical and achievable goal,” said Brady who personally visited the Independence Hub production platform in the Gulf of Mexico last fall for a firsthand look at how natural gas is produced. “With energy production in deeper waters than ever before, we should be putting our technology to work weaning our nation off foreign oil,” added Brady.It is estimated that $1.7 trillion of government revenue would be raised from tapping the billions of barrels of oil and trillions of cubic feet of natural gas under the deep oceans off our coast. During the height of the energy debate last fall, polls showed the vast majority of Americans preferred to find new sources of energy here in America rather that continue being at the mercy of foreign nations. The Obama Administration is currently reviewing reinstating the offshore drilling ban.
01.28.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is leading several of his Gulf Coast colleagues in asking Acting Commerce Secretary Otto J. Wolff to share: f t Rep. Brady asks Commerce Department to Replace Lost CouponsWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) is leading several of his Gulf Coast colleagues in asking Acting Commerce Secretary Otto J. Wolff to help Gulf Coast residents with a unique DTV transition problem.In the busy 2008 Hurricane season residents of Texas and Louisiana faced down a triple threat from the Gulf of Mexico: Dolly, Gustav and Ike. Many coastal residents who did the right thing and ordered their DTV Coupons early lost them when the hurricanes ravaged their homes or they never received them while living in temporary housing. “While these families count every penny as they try to rebuild, there should be a way we can all work together to replace these lost DTV coupons before the next hurricane season rolls around,” said Brady.Brady, who is asking the Acting Commerce Secretary to take immediate steps to prioritize coupon delivery and replacement for residents of hurricane impacted regions, added “while we are sensitive to the backlog of coupon applications, coastal residents who rely on their televisions for crucial weather alerts should not be left in the cold because of lost or never received DTV coupons.”
01.22.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement after the Democrat-led U.S. House of Representatives voted to release another $350 billion share: f t Senior Republican Says No to More Bailout Funds Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) released the following statement after the Democrat-led U.S. House of Representatives voted to release another $350 billion dollars in bailout funds, now called the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). Brady, the senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, voted not to release the second half of the bail out dollars. "I've been disappointed, to say the least, with the results and accountability of the first bail out funds.“I understand the need for flexibility, but Congress initially approved a very different plan from what those first monies were actually used for. Amazingly, today there are still no specifics on how the remaining $350 billion will be spent to truly stem this financial crisis. So I say ‘no plan, no money.’“My advice to the new Treasury Department is simple: define the problem. The reason banks and businesses are hoarding their cash is that everyone knows a second wave of mortgage and commercial foreclosures will occur in this year and the next. Until our regulators force this problem to the surface quickly and address it head-on, credit markets will not be restored, here or abroad, and America’s economic recovery will be delayed further.”
01.19.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after getting word from the White House that Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were share: f t Thanks President Bush for Releasing Ramos & CompeanWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady released the following statement after getting word from the White House that Ignacio Ramos and Jose Compean were going to be released:“These officers have served enough time for the mistakes they made and I thank President Bush for giving these officers their freedom back by commuting their excessive sentences to time served. No law enforcement officer should ever fear an enhanced handgun sentencing guidelines being used against them over a split-second, line of duty decision.”
01.16.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) congratulated dozens of communities in District 8 Texas that were awarded the "Picturing America" Award from the share: f t Schools All Over Texas Granted “Picturing America” Education AwardWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) congratulated dozens of communities in District 8 Texas that were awarded the “Picturing America” Award from the National Endowment for the Humanities.“This innovative program will give our students the opportunity to learn about our great national history through American art and masterpieces. I am extremely excited to see that so many of our schools across Texas were eligible for this program and now will have the opportunity to incorporate such a great teaching tool into their curriculum,” said Brady.Picturing America is an educational program composed of forty, specifically selected works of art spanning several centuries. All of these works are done by American painters, sculptors, photographers, and architects. These works are reproduced in the highest quality resolution and distributed to the eligible schools with teacher resource books, lesson plans, and supporting materials.In order to receive these materials schools across America had the opportunity to submit an application requesting to be included in the program. Overall approximately 76,000 schools in the United States have been grated the materials to include in their lesson plans. In Texas alone 4,127 schools are participating in this program and that number is growing after every application cycle. For more information on Picturing America, please visit the Picturing America Website: HereInstitutions in The 8th District Who Have Been Awarded: Aikin Elementary (2008) Allan Shivers Library (2008) Bens Branch Elementary (2008) Brabham Middle School (2008) Bridge City High School (2008) Burkeville High School (2008) Cedric C. Smith Elementary (2008) Christian School of Kingwood (2009) Corrigan-Camden High School (2008) Crippen Elementary (2008) Deweyville High School Library (2008) Goodrich ISD (2009) Hardin High School Library (2008) Hardin-Jefferson High School (2008) Intermediate School (2008) Jasper High School Library (2009) Jasper Junior High School (2008) Joyful Sound Christian Academy (2009) JW Homeschoolers of Texas (2008) Keefer Crossing Middle School (2008) Kings Manor Elementary (2008) Lansberry Elementary (2009) Laura Reeves Elementary (2008) Little Cypress Mauriceville H. S. Library (2009) Livingston High School (2008) Lumberton Intermediate School Library (2008) Magnolia Elementary (2008) Magnolia High School (2008) Magnolia Jr. High 6th grade (2008) Mance Park Middle School (2009) New Caney 6th grade Campus (2008) New Caney 9th Grade Campus (2008) New Caney Elem. (2009) New Caney Elementary (2008) New Caney High School (2008) New Caney High School (2009) New Caney ISD-CO (2008) Orangefield High School Library (2008) Orangefield Jr. High Library (2008) Peet Junior High (2008) Porter Elementary (2008) Robert Crippen Elementary (2008) Runyan Elementary Library (2009) Shepherd High School (2008) Shepherd Public Library (2008) Simmit Christian Academy (2008) Sorters Mill Elementary (2008) Sour Lake Elementary (2008) St Anthony of Padua School (2008) St. Mary Catholic School (2008) The Woodlands High School (2008) Thompson Elementary School (2008) Tom Cox Intermediate (2008) Trinity Middle School (2008) Valley Ranch Elementary (2008) Valley Ranch Elementary (2008) Vidor Middle School (2008) West Orange-Stark High School Library (2009) Wheat Elementary School Library (2008) White Oak Middle School (2008) Willie E. Williams Elementary School (2009) Willis High School (2008) Willis High School (2008) Wm. Lloyd Meador Elementary (2009) Woodville High School (2008) Woodville Middle School (2008)
01.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R- Texas) urged the Social Security Subcommittee to examine government efforts to crack down on individuals share: f t Brady Calls for Congressional Hearing on Social Security Payments to Ineligible IndividualsWashington, D.C. - Today U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R- Texas) urged the Social Security Subcommittee to examine government efforts to crack down on individuals who are receiving federal disability payments but who are no longer disabled. “Rooting out fraud in the Social Security disability system must be a priority”, said Brady, who serves on the Social Security panel. “We need to do more to make sure those who are able to work are not gaming the money that is set aside for those who truly are disabled. “Social Security reviews evaluating the medical status of disability recipients have fallen. A recent investigation by The Oregonian newspaper (“Cheaters Cost Social Security Billions”) quoted experts as saying as much as $11 billion is being paid to recipients who are no longer eligible and cited examples of how the current lack of accountability is failing the taxpayers: “But lack of funding for those reviews has hurt the agency's chances of catching someone like Louis K. Smith."The former Portland man, who is HIV-positive, started collecting disability benefits in 1995, when he became too sick to work. A battery of drugs improved his health, and he eventually took a job clerking for a Multnomah County judge."Smith earned $31,000 a year while continuing to draw disability checks. When the judge found out, he turned him in. Two years ago, Smith pleaded guilty to wrongly collecting benefits and wasput on probation. He was ordered to repay $53,544."Today, Smith says he told agency officials that he had gone back to work but they kept depositing payments into his bank account. He decided to keep the money to help pay for medications,an act he now says was wrong.” Bryan Denson reporting in The Oregonian, December 7, 2008The Social Security Administration is required to conduct continuing disability reviews (CDR) to evaluate the medical status of individuals receiving Social Security Disability Insurance and Supplemental Security Income. However, over the past several years, fewer and fewer of these reviews have been conducted resulting in billions in benefits being paid out to individuals who are no longer disabled.
01.15.2009	Washington, D.C. - "When Texans pick up the phone and say hello, they should not find a prisoner bent on threatening them on the share: f t Rep. Brady pushes for new Federal Law to let Prisons Jam Illegal Cell Phone CallsWashington, D.C. - “When Texans pick up the phone and say hello, they should not find a prisoner bent on threatening them on the other end of the call.” Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) says that’s why he has introduced legislation in the House of Representatives to change the Federal Communications Commission code so the State of Texas can block illegal cellular phone calls from being made from inside Texas jails and prisons. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison is introducing an identical bill in the Senate. “This legislation will fight criminal enterprises behind bars and protect innocent victims and public officials from harassment and threats from criminals,” said Sen. Hutchison. “Recent cases of prisoners smuggling cell phones behind bars highlight the need to use current technology to prevent this ability.” Last year, prisoners on Texas’ death row were caught making threatening calls to the families of their victims, prosecutors, and elected officials on illegally obtained cell phones. The state instituted a statewide prison lockdown to remove cell phones and other contraband from the prisons. However, prison officials told Rep. Brady that federal law prohibited them from taking the next logical step of installing blocking devices in state prisons. “I strongly urge my colleagues to get behind this legislation,” said Brady who has worked on this bill in connection with the FCC and various telecommunications committees. “It is unacceptable that these inmates have been able to threaten people from behind bars, and it must not continue.” The State of Texas has taken aggressive measures to remove all cellular phones from the prison inmates, but without this necessary change in federal law, they will never be able to stop all illegal calls.
01.14.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady's issued the following statement after voting no to expanding SCHIP: "I'm proud to have helped create the CHIP share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady’s issued the following statement after voting no to expanding SCHIP:"I’m proud to have helped create the CHIP program in 1997, because it’s great preventative medicine and has been a huge help to working families, but this expansion plan is just irresponsible. This bill before us today allows serious abuses to continue, does not focus on the poorest children first, and reverses a long-standing, bi-partisan ban against new immigrants enrolling in the program."Worst of all, Congress only partially funded this expansion, setting up an enormous balloon payment in five years that taxpayers will be hard pressed to pay for, especially middle-class families who are already doing without to make sure their children have health care."This is not the kind of change that Americans are looking for."
01.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - With the announcement of a staggering $1.2 trillion federal deficit for 2009 and President-elect Obama predicting trillion dollar deficits "for years share: f t Introduces Spending Reform Act to Get America’s Financial House in OrderWashington, D.C. - With the announcement of a staggering $1.2 trillion federal deficit for 2009 and President-elect Obama predicting trillion dollar deficits “for years to come”, U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) today introduced legislation to rein in out-of-control federal spending and force both parties to work together to put America back on sound financial footing.“How horrible do our government’s finances have to get before we act?” asked Brady. “We are at a crisis point and Congress just continues to spend like there’s no tomorrow. Unless we act now to get our financial house in order, families will face higher tax burdens and our grandchildren will find themselves in a deep hole they can never climb out of.”The Spending Reform Act of 2009 is a starting point for the new president and both parties to work together to cut wasteful spending, begin balancing the federal budget and address the looming crises in Medicare and Social Security.The legislation includes: - Annual Spending Cap on the federal budget, adjusted to inflation; - Federal Sunset Law to abolish obsolete federal agencies and eliminate duplication; - SAFE Commission: a plan by Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) to force both parties in Congress to find long-term solutions to the financial collapses facing Social Security and Medicare; - A moratorium on congressional earmarks until they can be reformed and the abuses stopped, as proposed by Rep. Jack Kingston. (R-GA).Brady, a senior member of House Ways & Means Committee who was recently appointed to the House Select Committee on Earmark Reform, has been at the forefront of spending reform efforts on Capitol Hill.
01.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, who led the successful three-year effort to pass the Central American Free Trade Agreement, issued the share: f t BRADY TO LEAD TRADE SUB-COMMITTEE FOR HOUSE REPUBLICANS Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, who led the successful three-year effort to pass the Central American Free Trade Agreement, issued the following statement today after being named Ranking Member (lead Republican) of the House Ways & Means Subcommittee on Trade.“The freedom for American farmers, businesses and workers to sell their products throughout the world is key to our economic recovery. Rather than retreat from trade, I am going to urge our government to aggressively level the playing field in the global marketplace. We need jobs and we need families to have the widest choices of affordable products to stretch their pocketbook.”Trade is related to 2.2 million jobs in Texas, which is the largest exporting state in the nation. Brady will also continue to serve on the Ways & Means Social Security Sub-committee and as Lead House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee.
01.09.2009	Washington, D.C. - The United States has been losing jobs for 12 straight months now according to new figures released this morning by the share: f t Solution is Real Pro-Growth Policies, Not Borrow & Spend Gimmicks Washington, D.C. - The United States has been losing jobs for 12 straight months now according to new figures released this morning by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Last month, another 524,000 jobs were lost bringing the total to about 2.6 million jobs. With this sobering news as a background, Congressman Kevin Brady, the Senior House Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, issued the following statement:“These job losses confirm a profound lack of confidence in the economy by both families who are restraining their spending and businesses who are doing the same with investment.I am not convinced that confidence can be restored with a massive ‘borrow and spend” binge by Congress, especially since the federal government is already overspending its budget by more than a trillion dollars this year. We watched Japan try the same thing and their economy floundered for a decade. If the American public and the business community sense that lawmakers in Washington are seriously addressing the fundamental problems with the economy rather than relying on yet another bag of rebate gimmicks and social spending, then they will respond.”
01.07.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) wasted no time after being sworn in for a seventh term, quickly introducing legislation to make permanent share: f t After Being Sworn in for his 7th Term, Congressman Kevin Brady Files Bill to Cement Tax Fairness for TexansWashington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) wasted no time after being sworn in for a seventh term, quickly introducing legislation to make permanent the state and local sales tax deduction that saves Texas taxpayers $1.2 billion a year, and helps create 22,000 Texas jobs. “In this weak economy there could be no clearer signal to consumers than to reassure them they will continue to deduct their sales taxes from what they owe “Uncle Sam” each year,” said Brady, who led the successful effort to restore the deduction in 2004. “This is a jobs issue and a fairness issue for taxpayers in states that have no income tax to deduct.” The current deduction expires at the end of 2009 and must be extended year to year. Making the deduction permanent is a top goal of the seven states that rely upon sales taxes rather than income taxes for their revenue: Texas, Tennessee, Florida, Nevada, South Dakota, Washington and Wyoming. Since the law was changed in 2004, taxpayers across America can choose to deduct either their state and local income taxes or their state and local sales taxes from their federal income tax burden. Brady is a senior member of the House Ways & Means Committee which oversees all tax, trade, Medicare and Social Security issues. To read more about this bill please click here.
01.06.2009	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the Texas Department of Transportation's decision to pull the plug on the share: f t Washington, D.C. - Congressman Kevin Brady (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the Texas Department of Transportation’s decision to pull the plug on the Trans-Texas Corridor Project:“Given the overwhelming public opposition to the Trans-Texas Corridor, this decision makes sense. As a fast-growing state, Texas has many mobility challenges still facing us. I look forward to working from the federal level with TxDot to move critical regional projects forward, like bringing U.S. Highway 59 up to interstate standards through east Texas.” For more information on the Tran-Texas Corridor Project please see article in the Houston Chronicle: http://www.chron.com/disp/story.mpl/front/6196406.html
09.25.2013	After years of delays and lack of accountability, the report released today contains nothing but bad news for American families – they will pay more for their health care, despite the President's many promises otherwise. Texans will not see the Carefully crafted ‘report’ can’t hide premium increases for America’s familiesWashington, DC – The White House released a document today containing health care premium information for the ObamaCare Exchanges in 36 states, including Texas. Texas Congressman, and Chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, Kevin Brady, called the report “an embarrassment.”“For the ‘most transparent Administration in history’ this report doesn’t tell us much,” said Brady, noting that the report was released only six days before the Exchanges are due to go live. “Other than a few selected data points, the White House’s carefully crafted ‘report’ fails to provide average Americans with even the most basic information about the health care they are being forced to buy.”The report, which was originally scheduled to be released two weeks ago, does not include information about which health plans Texans will be able to choose from. It also only includes average payment options for the different plans, as opposed to specific plans and prices consumers will be forced to choose from under ObamaCare.“After years of delays and lack of accountability, the report released today contains nothing but bad news for American families – they will pay more for their health care, despite the President’s many promises otherwise. Texans will not see the $2,500 savings guaranteed by the White House. Congress must stop, by any means possible, this unworkable law before it causes any more harm to our families and our economy,” Brady concluded.### share: f t 9/25/13 18:22
09.20.2013	This bill strengthens the federal government's commitment to our local communities and is the first major step toward a long term solution for local education and infrastructure. It also protects jobs and nearby communities from catastrophic wildfire These payments are “essential” for local jobs, education and infrastructureWashington— Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act 244 to 173. Local Congressman Kevin Brady, a consistent champion for continuing timber payments to East Texas counties and schools, voted to extend critical Secure Rural Schools funding and return the National Forest to healthy management practices that generate revenue for important local services.“Timber payments are essential to East Texas schools and counties that depend on these forests for their livelihood,” said Brady, who strongly supported the bill which impacts Houston, Montgomery, San Jacinto, Trinity and Walker counties. “This bill strengthens the federal government’s commitment to our local communities and is the first major step toward a long term solution for local education and infrastructure. It also protects jobs and nearby communities from catastrophic wildfire disasters.”The House Natural Resources Committee says the bill will create over 68,000 direct and nearly 140,000 indirect American jobs, while making the national forests less susceptible to wildfires and invasive species.### share: f t 9/20/13 14:38
09.20.2013	The House has delivered. Now it's time to fully support our senators as they work to unite their colleagues behind defunding this terrible health care takeover, said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the leader of the House Ways and Means Health Subcom share: f t Time to Support Senate Republicans’ Fight to Defund, says BradyWashington, DC - Today Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives approved a short term government funding bill that defunds ObamaCare while keeping the rest of the federal government up and running. The bill also ensures the government will not default, by making good on its debt payments, funds Border Patrol and veterans care, and continues the modest sequester savings.“The House has delivered. Now it’s time to fully support our senators as they work to unite their colleagues behind defunding this terrible health care takeover, ” said U.S. Congressman Kevin Brady, the leader of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee who has long fought the President’s Affordable Care Act. "The Senate must act – made-for-tv-filibusters aren't enough – just deliver the votes to defund ObamaCare as promised.”“It only takes 41 of 45 Senate Republicans to hold the line - I believe in Senator Ted Cruz and I’m confident he will prevail. It all comes down to the Senate.”###
09.19.2013	"He says he wants shovel ready jobs. Well, here they are. He says he wants to grow the economy. Here's a plan that does that at no cost to the taxpayer, unlike his failed stimulus plan." share: f t On Five Year Anniversary, Texas Congressman Calls for President to OK Pipeline Project‘Five years is too long. It’s time to approve Keystone, Mr. President,’ says BradyWashington, DC – On today’s five year anniversary of the Keystone XL Pipeline’s submission to the State Department for approval, Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) called upon the President to approve the project. “Texas workers are looking for jobs, but the President has refused to approve a project that will create thousands of jobs for them and other struggling Americans across the country,” said Brady, a senior member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. “He says he wants shovel ready jobs. Well, here they are. He says he wants to grow the economy. Here’s a plan that does that at no cost to the taxpayer, unlike his failed stimulus plan.”TransCanada estimates that 20,000 jobs will be directly created from the pipeline’s construction and it would also generate much needed tax revenue for state and local governments.“Five years is more than enough time for the President to decide upon the merits of the Keystone XL Pipeline. Enough stalling – it’s time to build,” Brady concluded.###
09.18.2013	We need to get down to work to craft a spending solution that reduces the size of the federal government as a share of the economy to sustainable levels. We cannot solve this problem with higher taxes, Brady concluded. share: f t “Economy Can’t Fully Heal if Fed Keeps it on Monetary Morphine”Washington, D.C. – Rep. Kevin Brady(R-TX), Chairman of the congressional Joint Economic Committee, commented on today’s decision by the Federal Reserve’s Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) to not begin scaling back its large-scale asset purchase program.“Today’s decision by the FOMC not to begin scaling back its program of large-scale bond purchases is just another indictment of President Obama’s poor economic stewardship. Those purchases may have helped juice profits on Wall Street, but they have done little, if anything, to help struggling families on Main Street. In fact, this heavy dose of ‘monetary morphine’ may have actually slowed the economy’s healing process,” Brady said. “Recent Fed policy has, without question, supported the continuation of bad fiscal policy on the part of Congress and the White House. The President needs to step up the plate and begin negotiating a long-term solution to put the nation’s fiscal house in order. And it is important for Congress and the President to recognize the point made recently by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco that fiscal policy’s drag on economic growth is not because of restraint on the spending side of the ledger, but higher taxes,” Brady continued.Brady quoted from the San Francisco Fed’s June 3 Economic Letter noting, “’Surprisingly, despite all the attention federal spending cuts and sequestration have received, our calculations suggest they are not the main contributors to this projected drag. The excess fiscal drag on the horizon comes almost entirely from rising taxes.’”“We need to get down to work to craft a spending solution that reduces the size of the federal government as a share of the economy to sustainable levels. We cannot solve this problem with higher taxes,” Brady concluded.###