03.14.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA), Chairman of the House Rules Committee, joined nearly 240 other Members of Congress in introducing the Equality Act of 2019 – a historic bill to state unequivocally that LGBTQ Americans deserve the full protections guaranteed by the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Equality Act extends anti-discrimination protections to LGBTQ Americans with regard to employment, education, access to credit, jury service, federal funding, housing, and public accommodations. "No American should ever be treated as less than equal, especially in the eyes of the law," said Congressman McGovern. "The Equality Act would guarantee that LGBTQ Americans in all fifty states have the same protections that people here in Massachusetts already have. As Chairman of the House Rules Committee, I look forward to ushering the Equality Act to the House Floor. Liberty and justice for all is more than just an idea – it must be the law of the land.” Despite significant legal advances over the past several years – including marriage equality, LGBTQ Americans remain vulnerable to discrimination on a daily basis and too often have little recourse. Fifty percent of the national LGBTQ community live in states where, though they have the right to marry, they have no explicit non-discrimination protections in other areas of daily life. Only 21 states have explicit laws barring discrimination based on sexual orientation in employment, housing, and public accommodations, and only 20 states have such protections for gender identity. The Equality Act has the bipartisan support of Members of Congress, the strong support of the business community, and the overwhelming support of the American people – with more than 7 in 10 supporting the Equality Act.
03.11.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA), Chairman of the House Rules Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s FY 2020 budget: “President Trump’s budget isn’t worth the paper it’s printed on. Last year, Republicans jammed through massive tax breaks for the rich. Now they want to pay for them by making trillions of dollars’ worth of cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and nutrition programs that veterans and seniors rely on. Give me a break. This isn’t about fiscal responsibility – this is about going after vulnerable people in our society so that those at the top can get a tax break. It’s disgusting, it’s wrong, and it will not pass.”
02.26.2019	Today, Congressman James P. McGovern, Chairman of the House Rules Committee, spoke on the House Floor in support of H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019, and H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Background Checks Act of 2019. Following today’s procedural votes, final consideration of both pieces of legislation is expected to occur later this week. H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act of 2019, would require a background check on every gun sale or transfer, with reasonable exceptions such as giving a gun as a gift to a close family member. Currently, 80% of firearms used for criminal purposes are obtained without a background check – through an unlicensed gun seller like a gun show, online, or person-to-person. H.R. 1112, the Enhanced Background Checks Act of 2019, eliminates a loophole which currently allows the sale of a firearm to proceed if a background check is not completed within three business days. 97% of all gun background checks are completed within 3 business days. For the 3% that are unresolved, the bill gives the FBI additional time to complete these background check investigations before the firearm can be transferred. Full video of the speech is on YouTube here. Transcript of McGovern’s Full Remarks, as Delivered: I thank the gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Raskin, for yielding me the time and for his leadership on this important issue. Let me remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who are opposing this legislation that people are watching this debate. And I know many are scratching their heads wondering what’s going on, because what we’re trying to do here is close loopholes that allow violent criminals to get access to guns. Not create more loopholes. M. Speaker, last Thursday, I spoke at a town hall sponsored by students at Bancroft High School in Worcester, Massachusetts. Those young people demanded action on gun violence, not unlike other young people all across my district and all across this country. They are terrified. And they are tired of seeing one massacre after another and another and another. And they’re sickened by the unacceptably high rate of gun violence in this country. We have an obligation to be on their side, not on the side of the gun lobby. In fact, most gun owners agree with what we are doing here today. 97 percent of gun owning households support universal background checks. 97 percent! You just don’t see support like that on very many things. But on this issue, the public is speaking loud and clear. The question is whether Congress is going to listen. My office has been flooded with calls on this year after year. I’ve heard from the loved ones of victims killed and from those injured. I know many of my colleagues can say the same thing. It’s heartbreaking! And each of us is in a unique position. We can do more than just listen. We can act. We can actually vote to help save lives. Now, sadly, past Majorities have turned a deaf ear. In fact, it had been nearly a decade since the Judiciary Committee held a hearing on a major bill to combat gun violence. When they were in charge, my Republican friends on the other side held a hearing instead on a bill that would have actually brought more guns from out of state into local communities. Their indifference on this issue of fun violence – their silence – has been stunning. But this Democratic Majority is not satisfied with inaction. We will not be cowed by the gun lobby. We are moving legislation that, in the case of H.R. 8, has been in the works for more than twenty years. The time for inaction is over. Listen to the young people in your districts! They are not content with a future where gun violence in the norm. They want and they deserve better. Last night, in the Rules Committee, my Republican friends tried to pass exception after exception after exception to this universal background check bill – essentially trying to gut the bill. This is modest reform in the right direction. We are trying to save lives. We are tired of massacres. We are tired of comforting parents whose loved ones were killed by gun violence. We are tired of inaction. We are tired of the gun lobby dictating what Congress does and doesn’t pass. This majority is going to be run by the people of this country. And the majority of people in this country overwhelmingly support these bills. I urge all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote for this rule and vote for the underlying legislation. I yield back the balance of my time.
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON -- Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA) Chairman of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement after Sudanese President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan imposed a yearlong state of emergency and dissolved the federal and state governments of Sudan on Friday, February 22: "For decades, Omar al-Bashir- who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity-has violated the Sudanese people's basic human rights, supported extremist groups, repressed religious minorities, and stolen his nation's wealth while most of its people live in poverty. Sudan is a kleptocracy, and corruption and mismanagement by Bashir and his regime have impoverished the Sudanese people, with only few wealthy and connected insiders amassing immense wealth. “For the past several weeks, the Sudanese people have been protesting economic hardship, and an end to Bashir’s repressive politics. They have been met with excessive violence and mass arrests, sending many to the infamous Ghost Houses, harsh detention centers where torture is common. On Friday, Bashir imposed a year-long state of emergency. "I was deeply disappointed when President Trump provided permanent sanctions relief to the government to the government of Sudan. I believe the so-called progress he cited has been minimal, especially in the area of full, unrestricted delivery of humanitarian aid to all regions of Sudan. "Given the courageous protests now taking place inside in Sudan, it would be unconscionable for the Trump Administration to remove Sudan from the State Sponsor of Terrorism list or provide Khartoum with economic support or additional sanctions relief. We must pursue a policy that is informed by the history and context of Sudan, insists on foundational change, and is backed by strong financial pressure and real incentives. "I remain committed to pursuing such fundamental transformation that recognizes and respects the basic human dignity and rights of all the people of Sudan."
01.17.2019	Today, Congressman James P. McGovern, Chairman of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, together with a bipartisan group of 20 lawmakers, introduced new legislation to immediately stop all military sales and aid to the government of Saudi Arabia. The full text of the bill, H.R. 643. can be found here. McGovern introduced similar legislation in October, 2018 following the death of Saudi journalist and U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey. "Jamal Khashoggi was murdered in cold blood by the Government of Saudi Arabia. The use of a diplomatic post as a torture chamber is an affront not only to international norms, but to basic human decency,” said Congressman McGovern. “Unfortunately, the Trump Administration refuses to take real action to stand up for our values and hold the Saudi Government accountable. It’s time for the United States to halt all weapons sales and military aid to Saudi Arabia. Our democratic values are on the line here – and we must step up and do the right thing.” Following the bill's introduction, McGovern delivered this speech on the House Floor: "Madam Speaker, I am proud to introduce today H.R. 643, a bipartisan bill to stop all U.S. arms sales and military aid to Saudi Arabia. Madam Speaker, it has been over one hundred days since the Government of Saudi Arabia brutally murdered journalist and U.S. resident Jamal Khoshoggi at the Saudi consulate in Turkey. The Senate unanimously condemned the Saudi government for this heinous crime. But the House remains silent. It’s past time the House clearly and unambiguously declared that there’s a price to pay for such barbarity. Let it begin by ending all U.S. arms sales and military aid to the Saudi government. I urge all my colleagues to join me and cosponsor H.R. 643. Representatives Walter B. Jones (R-NC), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Jared Huffman (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ilhan Omar (D-MN), Peter Welch (D-VT), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA) joined McGovern as original cosponsors of the bill.
01.16.2019	McGovern: “For thousands of people throughout Massachusetts, this shutdown isn’t political. It’s personal. Senate Republicans and President Trump need to do their job and reopen the government now.” share: f t This week, House Republicans again rejected legislation to end the shutdown and fund the government until Feb. 1 – which would give the president and Congressional leaders time to find a compromise on border security without holding unrelated federal agencies hostage. This was the seventh piece of legislation House Democrats have brought forth to immediately open the government and end this shutdown for the 800,000 Americans who have either been furloughed or are working without pay. “It’s unconscionable to me that Mitch McConnell and the White House think that shutting down our government and endangering the health and safety of the American people is a good idea,” said McGovern. “I’m ready and willing to debate smart ways to secure our border– but I’m not willing to allow our entire political system to be held hostage over a wall that Mexico was supposed to pay for, and which the people of this country do not want. “Let’s not forget that for thousands of people in Massachusetts, this shutdown isn’t political – it’s personal. Farmers are facing uncertainty. Hardworking public servants are struggling to pay bills, rent, student loans, and even to put food on the table. Many are now being forced to return to work without pay, so they can’t even get a temporary job to pay their bills. Just today, I heard from several small business owners in Massachusetts who are now in serious financial jeopardy because they can’t get food inspected or food labels approved. “The House of Representatives has passed a bipartisan compromise bill that reopens the government and provides for smart, effective border security. The President can bang his fists on the table all he wants – but prolonging this shutdown and rejecting bill after bill to reopen the government is making us less safe. The White House and Senate Republicans need to grow up, do their job, and reopen the government so that hardworking public servants across the country can do their jobs and get paid for their work.” Since the 116th Congress began on January 3rd, Congressman McGovern and House Democrats have voted to reopen the government or fund key agencies on: January 17 -- Congressman McGovern voted to end the shutdown and fund the government through February 28. January 16 – Congressman McGovern voted to end the shutdown and fund the government through February 1. January 11 – Congressman McGovern voted for legislation to fund the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Interior. January 10 – Congressman McGovern voted for legislation to fund the Departments of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other key agencies. January 10 – Congressman McGovern voted for legislation to fund the Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration. January 9 – Congressman McGovern voted for legislation to fund the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service. January 3 – Congressman McGovern voted for legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security through February 8 – giving the president and Congressional leadership time to negotiate a compromise on border security while reopening our government. January 3 – Congressman McGovern voted for a package of six appropriations bills that have all previously either passed the Senate with unanimous or overwhelming bipartisan support.
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern joined House Democrats to pass the FY 2019 Department of the Interior and EPA appropriations bill to prevent damage to America's national parks and monuments, and allow EPA to resume its critical activities in protecting clean air and clean water for Massachusetts families. Massachusetts’s $83 million in EPA state grants is currently at risk because of the Trump Shutdown. “Since the Trump Shutdown began, many of America’s treasured National Parks have been filled with garbage, with increasingly unsanitary conditions, and now, damage to fragile ecosystems,” said Rep. McGovern. "At the same time, for over two weeks, the EPA has been unable to perform its essential, life-saving role of protecting the clean air our children breathe and the clean water that they drink. Key grants to fund environment protection activities in the states cannot go out when the EPA is shut down. Our state relies on this funding every year – having received $83 million in FY 2017 to protect our environment. As long as the Trump Shutdown drags on, the health and well-being of Massachusetts children remains at risk and our communities will continue to needlessly suffer.”
01.10.2019	Washington – Today, Rep. McGovern joined House Democrats to pass the FY 2019 Transportation and Housing and Urban Development appropriations bills to re-open these two essential government agencies and rescue the hard-working Massachusetts families who are at imminent risk of being evicted while ensuring air travel and highway transportation are safe for all Americans. As we enter Day 20 of the Trump Shutdown, thousands of American workers, including essential air traffic controllers, are arriving at work to find zero dollars on their paystubs. “In Massachusetts and across the country, the Trump Shutdown is threatening the housing security of more than four million households that depend on HUD’s rental assistance initiatives,” said Rep. McGovern. “Among those at risk of eviction are an estimated 2.2 million low income households, including hundreds of thousands of veterans, seniors and people living with disabilities. Every day that the Trump Shutdown continues, Massachusetts children and families are placed in immediate danger of being thrown out on the street. Yet, the President is threatening to keep the government and its critical housing services for vulnerable families closed for years.” “While the President and Senate Republicans refuse to do their job, Democrats are acting quickly to re-open government and fulfill our responsibility to the American people. By passing today’s legislation, we are ensuring that hard-working people in Central and Western Massachusetts can travel and conduct their business safely and securely, knowing that the roads they drive on and the aircraft they fly in are being inspected and maintained. The President and Senate Republicans need to do their job and end this shutdown now."
01.07.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern, co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives, Chairman of the House Rules Committee, and a leading advocate of human rights around the world, strongly condemned the Guatemalan government’s attempt to unilaterally end the 2006 accord with the United Nations that established the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala, known as CICIG. “Withdrawing from CICIG would be a grievous error on the part of the Guatemalan government,” said Rep. McGovern. “Corrosive corruption and pervasive impunity have cheated the Guatemalan people of their prosperity and their future for decades. Since its creation CICIG has worked hand-in-hand with brave Guatemalan prosecutors and judges to fight back. This newest attack is occurring because CICIG has been successful and the country’s corrupt leaders, including President Jimmy Morales, are running scared.” The treaty creating CICIG, which was ratified by the Guatemalan congress, imposes obligations on the Guatemalan government, including the duty to facilitate the work of CICIG in Guatemala. The accord does not include a withdrawal provision for Guatemala and requires that controversies be resolved by negotiation or mutual agreement. In addition, the president and many members of the Guatemalan congress are being investigated by CICIG. Under Guatemalan law the resulting conflict of interest likely precludes them from acting against CICIG. A request for an injunction to block the government’s action has already been filed with Guatemala’s Constitutional Court. “I look forward to the results of the Constitutional Court’s review of the government’s action today – an action that smells of desperation, given that the president himself is under investigation for corruption. The Constitutional Court has bravely ruled in favor of CICIG in response to past attacks and I trust they will do so again. The Court’s magistrates have been real heroes in the ongoing struggle to defend rule of law in Guatemala,” said the Congressman. Section 1287 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019, signed into law by President Trump on August 13, 2018, includes a requirement that the Secretary of State send Congress a list of corrupt officials in Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. The list is due is due in February. “Make no mistake,” added the Congressman. “We in Congress will insist that every high-ranking Guatemalan official working to undermine the fight against corruption in that country be sanctioned under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. The United States Congress will not sit by quietly while those officials continue to enrich themselves and undermine the rule of law in Guatemala.”
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Thursday, the first day of the 116th Congress, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined Reps. Ted Deutch (D-FL), John Katko (D-NY), and Jamie Raskin (D-MD) in introducing a bipartisan constitutional amendment to get big money out of politics and restore democratic power to the American people. The Democracy for All Amendment affirms the right of states and the federal government to pass laws that regulate spending in elections, reversing the concentration of political influence held by the wealthiest Americans and large corporations capable of spending millions of dollars in our elections. This legislation comes days before the ninth anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s disastrous ruling in the Citizens United case. “Let’s not mince words here – for too long, the needs of the American people have taken a backseat to the needs of corporations that dump unlimited amounts of money into political campaigns,” said Congressman McGovern. “From gun violence to healthcare costs to climate change, the issues Americans care about have been held hostage by wealthy special interests. No more. We have got to solve this, and we have to overturn the disastrous Citizens United decision to restore the power of the ballot box and get big money out of politics.” For more information on the amendment, click here for a background summary. “Years after the Citizens United decision, election spending has exploded into billion-dollar races that corrupt our elections by drowning out the voices of American voters," said Congressman Deutch. "Meaningful political participation cannot be reserved for individuals with extreme wealth and special interests, and we cannot continue to allow those who spend the most to dictate public policy that is out of step with our country. From climate change to gun violence, the issues that are most important to the American people are dominated by the will of the bottomless pockets that fund elections rather than the will of voters. We need to overturn Citizens United to get big money out of politics, strengthen our democracy, and restore power to the American people.” “I have long supported a constitutional amendment to reform our campaign finance system and firmly believe that we must take a bipartisan approach to make this happen," Congressman Katko said. "I’m proud to join Rep. Deutch and a number of my colleagues in reintroducing this legislation, as we take the first step in the new Congress towards real reform.” “In Citizens United, five Supreme Court Justices overturned two centuries of jurisprudence to determine that private corporations enjoy the political free speech rights of the people," Congressman Raskin said. "As hundreds of millions of dollars in dark money are spent by CEOs in the name of their unwitting shareholders, we are seeing what Court-ordered plutocracy looks like. But the democracy is stirring. As the exciting 116th Congress convenes, it’s time we remind America of what popular government looks like—that’s why I’m proud to support this bipartisan Amendment to rebuild the wall of separation between massive private corporations and the people’s public elections.” "The Supreme Court’s decisions in Citizens United, Buckley v. Valeo and related cases are antithetical to democracy," said Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen. "They stand for the proposition that corporations and the super rich should be able to drown out the voices and votes of everyone else; and they have, in fact, enabled the Big Money donor class to dominate our politics. As a direct result, we have a government responsive to corporate and super rich demands, but derisive of overwhelming public support to guarantee health care to all, slash drug prices, raise the minimum wage, avert catastrophic climate change and more. The Democracy for All Amendment will, finally, return us to a government of We the People. Public Citizen thanks Reps. Deutch, McGovern, Raskin and Katko for leading the way to what will be the 28th amendment to the U.S. Constitution." "American democracy has become increasingly broken and beholden to big money, contributing to rising inequality and injustices across the board. Now is the time for bold solutions" said Marge Baker, People For the American Way Executive Vice President. "We wholeheartedly support the reintroduction of the Democracy For All amendment. Americans deserve a democracy that serves the interests of all of us, not just the privileged and powerful." “Across the political spectrum, Americans want a constitutional amendment which will reclaim our democracy,” says John Bonifaz, the Co-Founder and President of Free Speech For People. “The Democracy For All Amendment would allow for overall campaign spending limits and would end the big money dominance of our elections. We applaud the re-introduction of this amendment, and we urge Congress to pass it and send it to the states for ratification.” "On behalf of our nearly 200,000 supporters in all 50 states, American Promise applauds the introduction of this constitutional amendment with bi-partisan support," said Jeff Clements, President of American Promise. "An amendment is a necessary foundation in securing free and fair elections for all Americans, not just wealthy donors and special interests. Eliminating the undue influence of big money in our political system is not a partisan issue, it's an American one." American Promise is a national cross-partisan organization that empowers all Americans to work together for the 28th Amendment so that people, not money, govern America, and includes a distinguished Advisory Council consisting of former U.S. Senator Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Former Governor Mike Dukakis (D-MA), Former U.S. Senator Alan Simpson (R-WY) and many others.
01.02.2019	Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA), Chairman-elect of the House Rules Committee and a leading voice in Congress for strengthening anti-hunger programs, released the following statement: “I stood on the House Floor and promised the president that Democrats would use every tool at our disposal to prevent this administration’s assault on the poor. That’s why our rules package directs the House Office of General Counsel to explore all possible legal options for responding to the administration’s attempt to limit access to SNAP for hundreds of thousands of hungry Americans. We will not stand by and watch this administration circumvent the will of Congress and undo the bipartisan 2018 Farm Bill. We are holding this administration accountable on day one.”
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — The House Democratic Caucus today approved Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi’s (D-CA) nomination of Rules Committee Ranking Member James P. McGovern (D-MA) to serve as chairman of the committee for the 116th Congress. In reaction, McGovern released the following statement: “I want to thank Leader Pelosi for her continued leadership and for the opportunity to lead this committee. I’m grateful to have the support of my colleagues across the Democratic Caucus as well. Massachusetts has a long and proud history with the House Rules Committee. Massachusetts Congressman Thomas P. ‘Tip’ O’Neill Jr. served on this committee before becoming Speaker of the House. Speaker O’Neill appointed my friend and mentor, Massachusetts Congressman Joe Moakley, to the committee, where he later became chairman. They taught me that you don’t have to agree on everything to agree on something, and that good people can disagree and still work together to get things done. Their example will guide me as I lead the Rules Committee at such an important time for our state and nation. This Republican Congress has been the most closed Congress in history, leading to more brinksmanship and legislative breakdown. The American people demanded a new direction. That means making the House Rules Committee the place where big ideas are debated once again instead of being where democracy goes to die. I look forward to instituting a more accommodating process that helps restore the integrity of this institution as the Democratic Majority advances an agenda that works for all Americans.” McGovern was appointed to the House Rules Committee in 2001 and was named ranking member last year. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 1996 after working for Congressman Moakley from 1982 until 1996, serving as a staff assistant, press secretary, and legislative director.
12.20.2018	Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement in reaction to the Trump Administration’s announced plan restricting state flexibility in providing nutrition assistance to people who are currently looking for work: “Instead of circumventing the will of Congress, the Trump Administration should read the Farm Bill the president just signed, which rejects changes to work requirements and categorical eligibility. In the meantime, let’s get one thing straight: most beneficiaries of SNAP who are able to work already have a job – they just earn so little that they still need assistance. “If the Administration really wants to shrink this program, then they should join with Democrats and support a higher minimum wage and paid family leave for workers. Instead, their proposed change adds to the struggle of those who are homeless or experiencing serious medical and mental health issues. We will fight this administration at every turn when they disrespect our nation’s most vulnerable. Shame on them.”
12.19.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) celebrated the President's signature of a bill he authored and introduced in the House of Representatives: H.R. 1872, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act. The bill denies Chinese government officials access to the United States if they are responsible for creating or implementing restrictions on American government officials, journalists, independent observers and tourists seeking access to Tibet. “I’m glad that the President signed our bill, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act, into law. For too long, China has covered up their human rights violations in Tibet by restricting travel. But actions have consequences, and today, we are one step closer to holding the Chinese officials who implement these restrictions accountable,” said Congressman McGovern. “I look forward to watching closely as our law is implemented, and continuing to stand with the people of Tibet in their struggle for religious and cultural freedom.” The bill includes a national security waiver, and would require the Secretary of State to submit an assessment to Congress of the level of access to Tibet granted to American government officials, journalists, and tourists by Chinese officials. If the secretary determines that there are restrictions on travel to Tibet, the appropriate Chinese officials will be ineligible to enter the United States.
12.13.2018	Today, U.S. Congressmen James McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL) along with U.S. Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) applauded final passage in the Senate of their bipartisan bill – H.R. 1872, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act. The bill denies Chinese government officials access to the United States if they are responsible for creating or implementing restrictions on American government officials, journalists, independent observers and tourists seeking access to Tibet. “Our foreign policy ought to send the message that we stand for human rights. That we stand with those whose culture and religious freedom are oppressed. And that our values compel us to speak out when we see something that’s wrong,” said Congressman McGovern. “Once this bill is signed into law by the President, there will be real consequences for the Chinese officials who systematically violate the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people. If these officials want to visit the United States, they must allow reciprocal access to Tibet.” “The Chinese government has sought to hide their ongoing destruction of the culture, language and religion of the Tibetan people from the international community, including outside government officials and journalists, while their own officials and citizens enjoy unfettered access to the United States. This legislation helps to level the playing field for those Chinese government officials responsible for barring entry to the Tibetan region and is a step toward a freer exchange of information for the Tibetan people,” said Congressman Hultgren. “If the Chinese government stands by its ‘nothing to see here’ rhetoric about Tibet, then it should allow U.S. government officials, journalists and citizens to visit,” said Senator Baldwin. “Access to Tibet is blocked precisely because of China’s widespread human rights violations there, including official oppression of Tibetans’ religious freedom, culture, language and autonomy. Chinese officials responsible for violations of democratic principles—and for hiding them through restricting U.S. citizen travel—should not expect to travel freely in the United States—a country founded on those very principles. I’m glad to see this commonsense, bipartisan legislation pass Congress and I look forward to seeing it signed into law.” “China’s repression in Tibet includes keeping out those who can shine a light on its human rights abuses against the Tibetan people,” said Senator Rubio. “We should not accept a double standard where Chinese officials can freely visit the United States while at the same time blocking our diplomats, journalists and Tibetan-Americans from visiting Tibet. I look forward to President Trump signing this bill into law that will help to restore some measure of reciprocity to America’s relationship with China.” The bill passed the House of Representatives in September, and will become law once signed by President Donald J. Trump. It includes a national security waiver, and would require the Secretary of State to submit an assessment to Congress of the level of access to Tibet granted to American government officials, journalists, and tourists by Chinese officials. If the secretary determines that there are restrictions on travel to Tibet, the appropriate Chinese officials will be ineligible to enter the United States.
12.10.2018	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) announced today that the Office of Massachusetts’ Second Congressional District in Washington, D.C. has moved to Room 408 of the Cannon House Office Building. The mandatory move was prompted by an ongoing, long-term renewal project of the Cannon Building undertaken by the Architect of the Capitol – during which occupants must relocate in phases while workers preserve and restore the historic structure. The second district’s new office is in an area of the building that has been restored and reopened to the public. Completed in 1908, the Cannon Building is the oldest congressional office building other than the United States Capitol. According to the Architect of the Capitol, the century-old building is currently plagued by safety, health, environmental and operational issues that pose a serious danger to both staff and members of Congress. The entire renewal project is scheduled to take approximately 10 years, with five phases aligned to fall between Congressional move cycles. Recent photos of the renewal project can be found here. “This office belongs to the people of Massachusetts’ Second District,” said Congressman McGovern. “One of the greatest gifts of working here is getting to share it with them when they visit. I encourage and invite everyone to visit my website and schedule a tour with us during their next trip to Washington, D.C. to learn about the amazing history of the United States Capitol Building.” The phone number for the office, (202) 225-6101, will remain the same, and any mail which has already been sent to the current office will be redirected to the new office.
12.09.2018	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement after the passing of Worcester Firefighter Christopher Roy while battling an early-morning fire on Lowell Street: “I am deeply saddened to learn that Firefighter Christopher Roy passed away this morning. December is already a difficult month for the Worcester Fire Department, and this tragedy only adds to the grief we feel for heroes like Christopher who have been taken from us too soon. His family, friends, and fellow firefighters are all in my thoughts and prayers during this difficult time.”
12.07.2018	U.S. Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA) and Juan Vargas (D-CA) have led a group of 19 members of Congress, including Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA), in a letter to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Acting Inspector General John Kelly to urge an investigation into the Custom and Border Protection (CBP) agents’ use of tear gas against migrants at the San Ysidro Border Crossing in California on November 25, 2018. In addition, the federal lawmakers express concerns that the action may have been in violation of CBP’s use of force policy and note its impact on Mexican citizens. “CBP agents at the San Ysidro Border Crossing responded to this situation by firing tear gas cannisters at the migrants, affecting an unknown number of men, women, and children, including many who did not engage in any violence. This was a severe response. Tear gas is a chemical weapon, whose use on the battlefield is almost universally banned, that causes watering eyes as well as a burning sensation in nasal passages and throats,” the federal lawmakers wrote. “Given the seriousness of this incident, we urge you to promptly investigate and determine whether CBP officers’ actions violated CBP’s Use of Force Policy.” The letter was also signed by Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Darren Soto (D-FL), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), André Carson (D-IN), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Jim Costa (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Judy Chu (D-CA), Scott Peters (D-CA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), and Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY). The full text of the letter is below: Dear Inspector General Kelly, We write regarding Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents’ November 25, 2018 use of tear gas against migrants at the San Ysidro Border Crossing. We are concerned that the decision to use tear gas may constitute a violation of CBP’s use of force policy, and sets a troubling precedent. As you may know, the incident occurred in the context of a largely peaceful protest by migrants in Tijuana, many of whom had been waiting days or weeks for an opportunity to lawfully present their asylum claims in the United States. During the protest, some activist individuals approached the United States border, despite efforts by Mexican law enforcement officers to prevent them from doing so. According to CBP’s November 26 statement, some of the individuals engaged in this protest threw rocks and other projectiles; four agents were hit, although none were seriously injured. CBP agents at the San Ysidro Border Crossing responded to this situation by firing tear gas cannisters at the migrants, affecting an unknown number of men, women, and children, including many who did not engage in any violence. This was a severe response. Tear gas is a chemical weapon, whose use on the battlefield is almost universally banned, that causes watering eyes as well as a burning sensation in nasal passages and throats. According to a November 26, 2018 statement from the American Academy of Pediatrics, “Children are uniquely vulnerable to physiological effects of chemical agents. A child's smaller size, more frequent number of breaths per minute and limited cardiovascular stress response compared to adults magnifies the harm of agents such as tear gas.” We also note that this event has international implications, since the tear gas crossed an international border and may have affected Mexican citizens. It is important to consider the impact on Mexico, just as we would expect Mexican authorities to consider the impact on the United States before taking similar actions on the Mexican side of the border. The Government of Mexico has also requested an investigation into this incident, and we hope that the Department of Homeland Security will comply with that request. Given the seriousness of this incident, we urge you to promptly investigate and determine whether CBP officers’ actions violated CBP’s Use of Force Policy. To ensure a proper accounting, we also ask that your investigation include an assessment of the area impacted by the tear gas, since conditions were reportedly windy on the day of the incident. Thank you in advance for your attention to this important request. Sincerely,
12.03.2018	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) announced winners of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge from Massachusetts’ Second Congressional District: Vishnu Penubarthi, Tian Yu Fan, Mary Barsoum, and Akshay Gopinathan. The students are all enrolled in the Massachusetts Academy of Math and Science at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. The students’ app, VeGETables, bridges the gap between supermarkets and food pantries by offering a platform where food pantries can request items from supermarkets. The students said they “were inspired to create the app after learning about the enormous amount of food that is wasted every year by supermarkets that could go towards feeding the millions of hungry Americans.” “I am excited to congratulate Vishnu, Tian Yu, Mary, and Akshay on their exceptional app. I’m so proud that their work highlights the importance of creative solutions to the problem of hunger in America,” said Congressman McGovern. “Programs like the Congressional App Challenge help today’s students develop the skills they need to become the innovators and entrepreneurs or tomorrow. I look forward to following all their hard work in the years to come, and I congratulate them on behalf of our entire community.” “The curriculum at Mass Academy is geared toward project-based learning, and encourages students to apply their knowledge to solve real world problems. We are extremely proud of all our students, and are thankful for the support from our legislators, which helps provide these opportunities to allow our students to excel and showcase their work,” said Michael Barney, Director of Mass Academy of Math and Science. BACKGROUND ON THE CONGRESSIONAL APP CHALLENGE: The Congressional App Challenge highlights the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourages students to engage in these fields. By recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The Challenge is open to all U.S. high school students in participating districts. Challenge participants are invited, either as individuals or as teams of up to four, to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. A panel of local computer science professionals and congressional representatives will judge the apps, and the winners in each district will have the honor of being recognized by their Congressional representative. The Challenge is coordinated by the Congressional Internet Caucus and the non-governmental sponsor of the project, the Internet Education Foundation. Click here to read more about the Congressional App Challenge. BACKGROUND ON THE MASSACHUSETTS ACADEMY OF MATH AND SCIENCE: The Massachusetts Academy of Math and Science is a public school of excellence for 100 academically accelerated high school juniors and seniors in Massachusetts. It emphasizes math and science within a comprehensive, interactive program. The rigor of junior year classes exceeds high school honors and Advanced Placement (AP), with more than 1,100 hours of instruction. Seniors complete a year of college, enrolling in classes at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, a world-class engineering school, thus making the Academy the only public school in Massachusetts whose students attend a private university full time as seniors in high school. For more information on Mass Academy, visit www.massacademy.org
11.29.2018	Today, U.S. Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, released the following statement: “If there was no collusion and no criminal activity, then why are so many people willing to risk so much to facilitate a cover-up? The president wants to paint the special counsel’s investigation as a witch hunt, but the facts speak for themselves. His campaign manager, foreign policy advisor, national security advisor, personal attorney Michael Cohen, and others have now all pled guilty. But it’s not just that Michael Cohen lied to Congress – he lied to the American people. And I think they deserve the truth. “Each passing day reveals a new reason why Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation must be protected from interference by the president and his accomplices. The new Democratic majority in the House of Representatives will use all of our powers to conduct proper investigation and oversight, and we will ensure that no one in this country is above the law.”
11.28.2018	Today, Representatives Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ro Khanna (CA-17), and Mark Pocan (WI-02), and leaders of H. Con Res. 138, issued the below statement in light of recent GOP efforts to block the resolution’s vote in the House and the impending Senate vote this week: “The stakes in Yemen have never been higher and the time for action is long overdue. The United States is unconstitutionally participating in a Saudi-led war that could starve 14 million Yemenis to death. This week, the Senate will vote on Sens. Sanders, Lee and Murphy’s S.J.Res. 54 to end all U.S. involvement in this catastrophic Saudi military campaign, as 30 former Obama Administration officials have publicly urged. “We encourage all of our Senate Democratic colleagues to unite around this measure in order to ensure its passage this week, and we intend to follow suit by promptly passing a similar War Powers Resolution in the House. We are proud of the leadership and unity of our Democratic colleagues, including Leader Pelosi, Whip Hoyer, and Ranking Members Smith, Engel, Schiff, Lowey and Nadler, who are among the 90 cosponsors of the bipartisan H.Con.Res. 138, which also directs the President to end the unauthorized U.S.-Saudi war. We look forward to the continued support of House Democrats as we urgently work to reassert Congressional authority over war and ease the suffering of millions of innocent people.”
10.24.2018	WORCESTER, MA – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (MA-02) together with Catholic Charities of Worcester County Chief Operating Officer Jennifer Cameron, announced a grant of $225,000 from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. The grant will help Catholic Charities expand their citizenship program and allow them to further support the immigrant community in Worcester County. “I’m so thankful to Catholic Charities for their tireless work on behalf of our community. I’ve visited their citizenship programs several times and they are truly an invaluable asset to our community. I know they’ve worked hard to secure this grant and I know they will put it to good use,” said Congressman McGovern. “With our refugee resettlement budget decimated, and the attack on immigrants at its peak, our staff have found a renewed sense of commitment,” said Jennifer Cameron, Chief Operating Officer of Catholic Charities. “This grant provides us with the resources to refocus our efforts on one of our core missions: assisting the immigrant community, which we will continue to do no matter the circumstances.” The grant will be used to assist Lawful Permanent Residents as they work to become American Citizens. One hundred percent of Catholic Charities of Worcester County civics students have passed the citizenship exam. The Charity’s Department of Justice (DOJ) accredited representatives assist eligible Lawful Permanent Residents with completing their citizenship applications while ESL and civics instructors deliver the educational component.
10.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern, Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, together with a bipartisan group of 20 lawmakers, introduced new legislation to immediately stop all military sales and aid to the government of Saudi Arabia. The full text of the bill can be found here. This new bill is stronger than the one Congressman McGovern introduced last week, which would have tied arms sales to a U.S. determination of the Saudi Government’s role in Jamal Khashoggi’s murder. “It is now clear that Jamal Khashoggi was murdered in the Saudi Consulate. The use of a diplomatic post as a torture chamber is an affront not only to international norms, but to basic human decency. And the inconsistent and implausible explanations put forth by the Saudi Government make absolutely no sense and defy credibility,” said Congressman McGovern. “Under both Democratic and Republican Administrations, I’ve called for a serious review of our arms sales to the Saudi government. With the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, it’s time for the United States to halt all weapons sales and military aid to Saudi Arabia. Our democratic values are on the line here – and we need to step up as a country and do the right thing.” Representatives Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter Welch (D-VT), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), John Lewis (D-GA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Justin Amash (R-MI), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), and Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI) joined McGovern as original cosponsors of the bill.
10.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman James P. McGovern, Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, has introduced bipartisan legislation to prohibit all military sales and aid to the government of Saudi Arabia unless the Secretary of State determines that the Saudi regime did not order or direct the disappearance, imprisonment, or death of Saudi journalist and U.S. resident Jamal Khashoggi. “The evidence continues to mount that the Saudi government was responsible for the disappearance of Mr. Khashoggi,” said Congressman McGovern. “What we know is that Mr. Khashoggi walked into the Saudi Consulate and he did not leave. The American people deserve to know the facts. They deserve to know that their government will not bankroll any regime that engages in despicable human rights violations. If Mr. Khashoggi was indeed murdered by the Saudi Government, it would be a brazen and alarming violation of international norms to which the United States must respond.” Congressman McGovern noted that he is prepared to introduce stronger legislation should reports clearly indicate that the Saudi Government is responsible for Khashoggi’s disappearance. “From Saudi royal family members financially backing 9/11 hijackers, to the probable murder of U.S. based-journalist and democracy advocate Jamal Khashoggi, it is clear that Saudi Arabia does not share America’s values,” said Congressman Jones. “Taxpayers should not be forced to continue to subsidize this regime.” Representatives Walter B. Jones (R-NC), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Justin Amash (R-MI), Peter Welch (D-VT), Jared Huffman (D-CA) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) joined McGovern as original cosponsors of the bill. The full text of the bill is available by clicking here.
10.12.2018	Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA) Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in Congress and Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, released the following statement after announcing his plan to introduce legislation prohibiting U.S. military aid and sales to the Government of Saudi Arabia until the United States Secretary of State determines that journalist Jamal Khashoggi is alive and free: “If reports of Mr. Khashoggi's disappearance at the hands of the Saudi regime are correct, they represent a brazen violation of international norms and an alarming and deeply unsettling escalation of efforts by the Saudi Government to silence its critics. “I will soon introduce legislation into the United States House of Representatives which would prohibit all U.S. military aid and sales to the Government of Saudi Arabia until the Secretary of State determines that journalist Jamal Khashoggi is alive and free. If the Secretary of State determines that Mr. Khashoggi was killed by agents of the Saudi Government, all U.S. military aid and sales would be prohibited until such time as Congress passes a resolution approving such aid and sales. “If the United States stands for anything, we need to stand out loud and foursquare for human rights. Our values are our strength, and we cannot be indifferent or complicit when those values are undermined or attacked. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance this important legislation.”
09.25.2018	“With this bill, we are taking an important step forward on behalf of the human rights of Tibetans” share: f t Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in Congress, applauded the passage of a bipartisan bill he introduced – H.R. 1872, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act – by the United States House of Representatives. The Congressman’s legislation seeks to hold China accountable for its human rights violations in Tibet. Since 1950, Tibetans have resisted the rule of the People’s Republic of China. The repression of a Tibetan uprising in 1959 provoked the Dalai Lama and 80,000 followers to flee into exile. China has continued to violently oppress the Tibetan people – imposing draconian controls over their lives and imprisoning and torturing hundreds of Tibetan political prisoners and detainees. “Today is a great day for human rights,” said Congressman McGovern on the House Floor Tuesday night, during passage of the bill. “If China wants its citizens and officials to continue to travel freely in the U.S., then Americans – including Tibetan Americans – must be able to travel freely in China, including Tibet, beginning now.” One of China’s key oppression mechanisms consists of limiting travel to Tibet in an attempt to cover up and minimize their human rights violations. Despite the fact that Chinese officials, journalists and tourists generally travel freely within the United States, the Chinese government has erected many barriers to Americans who seek to travel to Tibet – undermining the reciprocity and mutual respect that serves as the foundation of international law. Under the Congressman's bill, Chinese authorities who design and implement these restrictions on travel to Tibetan areas would become ineligible for admission to the United States. The bill now proceeds to the United States Senate for their consideration. Video of McGovern’s Remarks (YouTube) Transcript of McGovern’s Remarks (Medium) Key Excerpts from McGovern’s Remarks: “Mr. Speaker, today is a great day for human rights. The House is about to approve our bipartisan bill –The Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act — that will impose real consequences for China’s bad behavior in Tibet.” “America’s foreign policy ought to send the message that we value human rights. That we stand with those working for freedom. That those values compel us to speak out when we see something that’s wrong. And that we will hold accountable those who violate the basic human rights we are all entitled to. And that’s exactly what this bill today is all about.” “Tibetans are left isolated from the rest of the world. Their well-documented suffering under Chinese rule — arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment, extensive government surveillance, restrictions on the use of their language and their religious and cultural practices — all these violations of fundamental human rights are hidden from sight.” “I know first-hand how important access to Tibet is because I had the opportunity to join Leader Pelosi and several other Members of Congress for a visit there in November of 2015. I saw the tight control the government exercises over virtually all aspects of the daily lives of Tibetans. And I had people thank me for being there, remembering them, and fighting for their rights.” “So if China wants its citizens and officials to continue to travel freely in the U.S., Americans — including Tibetan Americans — must be able to travel freely in China, including Tibet, beginning now.” “With this bill we are taking an important step forward on behalf of the human rights of Tibetans, we are reaffirming our support for the leadership of his holiness the Dali Lama, and we are sending a message to the government of China: human rights are not negotiable. Supporting human rights is the moral thing to do. It is the right thing to do. And it is the American thing to do — for Tibetans, in China and everywhere else in the world.” ###
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Randy Hultgren (R-IL) and Jim McGovern (D-MA), Co-Chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s announced ceiling for refugee admissions into the United States next year: “We join together to express our extreme disappointment at the administration’s proposal to impose a limit on admitting no more than 30,000 refugees in the coming fiscal year. With the world in the midst of the worst refugee crisis in recorded history, with 65 million people displaced, 22.5 million of whom are refugees, American global leadership in refugee resettlement and standing as a beacon of hope is more critical than ever before. This proposed ceiling is alarmingly inadequate and far below the average refugee admission goal of 95,000 and even a steep cut from the 45,000 allowed in this year. We are deeply concerned that of the 45,000 allowed into the U.S. this year, only 21,000 have been accepted. “Refugee resettlement has been and should continue to be a cornerstone of American foreign policy. We should not be stepping back from our responsibility as a global leader in refugee resettlement, but rather stepping up to provide a safe and legal alternative for those most in need of safety. Resettlement is crucial to alleviate instability throughout the world, maintain strong relationships with our allies, and advance our foreign policy interests. By providing safe haven for refugees, we help to keep ourselves safe. “The United States cannot abandon its role as a place of sanctuary for the individuals and families seeking to escape violence, turmoil, and persecution. We cannot turn our back on the international community in a time of historic need. We urge the administration to reconsider its position to comport with global realities as we remain committed to work to ensure that the United States continues to welcome all from around the world seeking a place of safety and protection.”
09.13.2018	Full Text of Letter (PDF) WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Representatives James P. McGovern (MA-02), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Norma Torres (CA-35) led 118 House Democrats – including 16 full committee Ranking Members – in a letter calling on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to reverse his decision declaring domestic violence, gang violence and gender-based violence as invalid grounds for seeking asylum in the United States. The letter comes just days after the Trump Administration issued proposed regulatory changes that would undermine the long-standing Flores court order by indefinitely holding asylum seekers in family detention. The June 11th decision by Attorney General Sessions prevents victims of violence in some of the world’s most dangerous countries from seeking safety in the United States, and could condemn thousands of asylum-seekers to deportation, putting their lives in grave danger. “We are deeply alarmed and outraged over a series of actions taken by you, the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security that undermine or curtail the ability of migrants lawfully requesting asylum in the United States to present their claims,” the members wrote in their letter. “Taken together, these decisions, policies and practices have violated and shredded decades of precedent of U.S. law, careful jurisprudence within the immigration court system, and compliance with U.S. obligations under international law as a signatory to the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees of the of the 1951 Refugee Convention.” “The Trump Administration’s decision to block victims of domestic violence from seeking asylum here in the United States is unbelievably coldhearted and cruel” said Congressman McGovern. “Families in countries like El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala are being told that if they don’t relinquish their sons to gang life or their daughters to sexual slavery, they will be killed. If I were put in that situation, I would move heaven and earth to get my kids to safety. For us to turn a blind eye and deny asylum to these victim of gang and gender-based violence is just plain wrong.” “Refusing asylum to people fleeing gang, domestic and gender-related violence goes against what we stand for as a country and the Trump Administration has ruthlessly turned its back on victims of abuse and violence. We have a legal and moral obligation to provide refuge for these victims, not treat them as criminals. Denying asylum doesn’t separate us from the terror and violence in other countries; it aligns us with the perpetrators. For many of these individuals, seeking asylum is a matter of life and death, and the Trump Administration must immediately reverse course and allow these cases to move forward,” said Congressman Pocan. “The Trump Administration’s attack on asylum seekers is cruel and un-American. These restrictions are shamefully designed to discourage people who face legitimate danger from seeking sanctuary and security in our country,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “This nation must remain a haven for those who seek to escape violence and persecution. Asylum seekers flee imminent danger to get our help, and for many, this is a matter of life and death. Turning our back and ignoring the suffering of women, children, and families is disgraceful.” “I am disgusted by this administration’s cruelty toward women and children who come here seeking safety, and I am proud to join my colleagues in calling on Attorney General Sessions to reverse course,” said Congresswoman Torres. “Many of the families coming from Central America are fleeing persecution and death threats from violent street gangs. We have a moral obligation to allow these asylum seekers to tell their stories, and to allow immigration judges to decide each case on its merits.” According to the U.N. Office on Drugs and Crime, as well as the annual Small Arms Survey, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala have some of the highest homicide rates not just in the Americas, but in the world, exceeding even most countries at war. “The breadth of violence by dangerous non-state actors and domestic abusers reflects deeply-rooted social prejudice and persecution, as well as institutional cultures of impunity within law enforcement and the judiciary. To cavalierly dismiss them as mere lapses in effective policing only reinforces the bias that these lives have no value and may be abused and murdered without consequence,” the members wrote. “These violent non-state actors are kin to the violence perpetrated against civilians by ISIS or the Lord’s Resistance Army, and their victims should not be demeaned as criminals because they flee such daily terror, arrive at our borders and request asylum.” The members also called on the Attorney General to: • Direct law enforcement and border authorities to stop impeding access by asylum seekers to U.S. ports of entry; • Stop prosecuting the misdemeanor of improper entry by asylum seekers who enter the U.S. between ports of entry and who voluntarily surrender to U.S. authorities; and • Direct USCIS to recall its July 12th guidance that incorrectly instructs asylum officers to deny domestic violence and gang-related violence claims as a matter of course, rather on a case-by-case review. Joining Representatives McGovern, Pocan, DeLauro and Torres on the letter were Representatives: Jerrold Nadler, Nita M. Lowey, Adam Smith , Eliot L. Engel, Adam B. Schiff, John A. Yarmuth, Richard E. Neal, Frank Pallone, Jr., Nydia M. Velázquez, Raúl M. Grijalva, Peter A. DeFazio, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott, Mark Takano, Joseph Crowley, John Lewis, Luis V. Gutiérrez, José E. Serrano, Lucille Roybal-Allard , Karen Bass, David E. Price, Jan Schakowsky, Judy Chu, Sander M. Levin, Linda T. Sánchez, Pramila Jayapal, Keith Ellison, Filemon Vela, Vicente Gonzalez, Gene Green, Al Green, Marc A. Veasey, Lloyd Doggett, Beto O’Rourke, Ruben Gallego, Ben Ray Luján, Dina Titus, Ruben J. Kihuen, Barbara Lee, Mark DeSaulnier, Nanette Diaz Barragán, Jackie Speier, Salud O. Carbajal, Anna G. Eshoo, Doris O. Matsui, Ted W. Lieu, Jared Huffman, Alan S. Lowenthal, Jimmy Panetta, J. Luis Correa, Grace F. Napolitano, Mike Thompson, Juan Vargas, Julia Brownley, Ro Khanna, Diana DeGette, Ed Perlmutter, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, David N. Cicilline, Yvette D. Clarke, André Carson, Adriano Espaillat, Kathleen M. Rice, Alcee L. Hastings, Steve Cohen, Peter Welch, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Bill Foster, Michael E. Capuano, Chellie Pingree, Mike Quigley, Gwen Moore, Hakeem S. Jeffries, Betty McCollum, Carolyn B. Maloney, Gregory W. Meeks, Marcy Kaptur, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Val B. Demings, Elijah E. Cummings, Albio Sires, Colleen Hanabusa, Bobby L. Rush, Jamie Raskin, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Debbie Dingell, Sean Patrick Maloney, Frederica S. Wilson, Wm. Lacy Clay, Earl Blumenauer, Danny K. Davis, Bradley S. Schneider, Joseph P. Kennedy, III, Seth Moulton, Daniel T. Kildee, William R. Keating, Katherine M. Clark, Niki Tsongas, Rick Larsen, Ted Deutch, Tulsi Gabbard, Suzanne Bonamici, Darren Soto, A. Donald McEachin, Robin L. Kelly, Brenda L. Lawrence, Grace Meng, Brendan F. Boyle, Emanuel Cleaver, II, Anthony G. Brown, Thomas R. Suozzi, Denny Heck.
09.02.2018	WORCESTER, MA – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern, Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives and a leading advocate of human rights around the world, strongly condemned the decision by Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales not to renew the mandate of the International Commission Against Impunity in Guatemala, CICIG, when it expires next year. “Today Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales surrounded himself with military and police officials to announce that he will not renew CICIG’s mandate next year. He has made a bad and short-sighted decision that will inevitably have negative consequences not only for U.S-Guatemalan relations, but especially for his own people,” said Congressman McGovern. Established in 2007, the CICIG is an independent agency created by agreement between the Guatemalan state and the United Nations to investigate and prosecute corrupt criminal networks entrenched in the state. The Commission works through the Guatemalan justice system, hand-in-hand with local prosecutors. The CICIG is funded by voluntary contributions from the international community and, as one of the most successful rule of law initiatives in Guatemala, has enjoyed bipartisan U.S. support since its inception. “Within hours of the president’s announcement – and in spite of the conspicuous presence of military vehicles outside of CICIG’s offices and the US Embassy, and the sudden appearance of police in the offices and homes of human rights defenders – Guatemala’s streets were filling with protestors,” said Rep. McGovern. “Guatemalans are sick and tired of the corruption and impunity that lie at the heart of decades of human rights abuses. The Guatemalan people will not accept this step backwards, and the international community must not accept it. I strongly urge President Morales to reconsider immediately.” Morales’ decision comes two weeks after CICIG and Guatemala’s Public Ministry requested the lifting of the president’s immunity as part of an investigation into illicit campaign financing.
08.20.2018	NORTHAMPTON – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee, announced that Jon Niedzielski has been hired to serve as his Northampton-based regional manager. Niedzielski will serve as Congressman McGovern’s primary point of contact for residents, municipal officials, nonprofits, business owners, colleges and universities, and organized labor throughout the Pioneer Valley. Niedzielski will take over for longtime McGovern aide Keith Barnicle, who has accepted a job at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Mr. Niedzielski was appointed by President Obama in 2013 to serve as Massachusetts State Executive Director of the United States Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency. For over a decade before that, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff and District Director to former Congressman John Olver. A resident of Amherst, Niedzielski received his Bachelor’s Degree in History from Ithaca College, and a Master’s Degree in Foreign Affairs from the University of Virginia, Charlottesville. “Jon has a deep knowledge of the issues that affect our community – and a proven track record of delivering results for people in Western Massachusetts,” said Congressman McGovern. “I know that he will help continue our tradition of providing outstanding constituent services, and I’m thrilled to have him in this important role.” “I’m excited and honored to join Congressman McGovern’s team,” said Niedzielski. “I have long admired his tireless, progressive leadership and I’m thrilled at this opportunity to help him serve and engage with his constituents and communities in western Massachusetts.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman James P. McGovern (D-Worcester) announced today that he will travel to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and 13 other Congressional Democrats as part of a delegation focusing on hurricane recovery efforts. The delegation will arrive in Puerto Rico this afternoon, and will return on Saturday. “Democrats pledged we would not forget about our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands as they recover and rebuild,” said Congressman McGovern. “We want to make sure that the failures of this administration during the weeks and months after Hurricane Maria are never repeated again – and we will continue to bring attention to those who are still in need of assistance nearly a year later.” “Nearly one year after the hurricanes hit, the people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are still struggling to heal, rebuild and recover from these horrific disasters,” said Leader Pelosi. “The suffering endured by our fellow Americans on the islands in the months following the hurricanes has been a challenge to the conscience of our nation. We must do better to prevent the loss of life, expedite the recovery, and prepare for the next storm.” “Democrats are traveling to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to listen, to learn and to shine a light on this crisis,” continued Leader Pelosi. “Our delegation will visit with working families, local officials and leaders, faith groups and community groups to discuss the steps that remain to be taken to put our fellow Americans back on the road to recovery. We are committed to ensuring that every community devastated by the hurricanes will receive the assistance they need, particularly as we face fresh threats from this year’s hurricane season.”
07.25.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman James P. McGovern, Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives and a leading advocate of human rights around the world, applauded the House Judiciary Committee’s unanimous approval of a bipartisan bill he authored, The Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act (H.R. 1872). The Committee’s action is a key first step towards passage of the bill by Congress. The Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act promotes access for United States diplomats and officials, journalists, and other citizens to Tibetan areas of the People’s Republic of China. Although the basis of diplomatic law is mutual access and reciprocity, and Chinese officials, journalists and tourists generally travel freely within the United States, the Chinese government has erected many barriers to Americans who seek to travel to Tibet. Under the Congressman's bill, Chinese authorities who design and implement restrictions on travel to Tibetan areas would become ineligible for admission to the United States. The bill would also require an annual public report assessing whether China is allowing Americans to travel to Tibet. “The rationale for the bill is simple,” said McGovern. “While the Chinese enjoy broad access to the United States, the same is not true for U.S. diplomats, journalists or tourists going to Tibet, including Tibetan-Americans trying to visit their country of origin. This is simply unacceptable. If China wants its citizens and officials to travel freely in the U.S., Americans must be able to travel freely in China, including Tibet.” The bill must still be considered by the House Foreign Affairs Committee before advancing to the floor of the House. A companion bill is under consideration in the Senate. “I am very pleased that the House Judiciary Committee took this important first step, and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both chambers to ensure full passage,” said McGovern. “I have been blessed to visit Tibet and meet its people, and I look forward to the day when all Americans will have that opportunity without having to run a Chinese obstacle course.”
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Congressman James P. McGovern, Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee’s Nutrition Subcommittee, was named by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to serve on a conference committee to complete a five-year long reauthorization of the Farm Bill. “With America’s farmers, producers and ranchers facing plummeting prices, rising retaliatory tariffs and a struggling farm economy, we need a real robust, bipartisan Farm Bill more than ever,” Leader Pelosi said. “While House Republicans chose to advance a destructive and partisan bill that fails farmers and hungry families, this conference will provide an opportunity to return to the grand bipartisan tradition of robust Farm Bills. Our diverse and dynamic House Democratic Conferees will bring the strength of their values and wide-ranging expertise to the work of hammering out a bipartisan Farm Bill that honors our responsibility to the men and women of agriculture and hungry families.” Earlier this year, House Republicans passed, without a single Democratic vote, a partisan Farm Bill that included extreme cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). In doing so, they turned their back on a long history of bipartisanship as well as the economic security of millions of Americans. “Farm bills are supposed to be an investment in our farms, our farmers, and the programs that help to feed hungry American families. Farm bills shouldn’t be about beating up on poor people, but the House Farm Bill significantly reduces and cuts benefits for millions of the most vulnerable in our country,” said Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA). “The House’s bill was drafted in secret and is not reflective of the 23 hearings that our Committee held on SNAP over the past two and a half years. The only bipartisanship throughout the whole process was the bipartisan opposition to this awful bill. “In the Senate, the process couldn’t have been more different. Democratic ideas were heard and incorporated into the final text. SNAP benefit levels were maintained, and vulnerable families would continue to have access to modest food benefits when times are tough. “As we work to reconcile the differences between these dramatically different pieces of legislation, I will fight for a bill that -- instead of hurting our most vulnerable citizens -- works to end hunger now, helps our family farms, and supports rural communities. I’m honored to serve on this conference committee, and look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance a bipartisan Farm Bill.” The following Democratic Members will serve on the Farm Bill conference with McGovern: House Committee on Agriculture: Ranking Member Collin Peterson of Minnesota Congressman David Scott of Georgia Congressman Jim Costa of California Congressman Tim Walz of Minnesota Congresswoman Marcia Fudge of Ohio Congressman Filemon Vela of Texas Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico Congresswoman Ann Kuster of New Hampshire Congressman Tom O’Halleran of Arizona Education and Workforce: Congresswoman Alma Adams of North Carolina Energy and Commerce: Congressman Paul Tonko of New York Financial Services: Ranking Member Maxine Waters of California Foreign Affairs: Ranking Member Eliot Engel of New York Natural Resources: Ranking Member Raúl Grijalva of Arizona Oversight and Government Reform: Congresswoman Stacey Plaskett of the Virgin Islands Science, Space and Technology: Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas Transportation and Infrastructure: Congresswoman Cheri Bustos of Illinois
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Congressman Peter King (R-NY) announced that the bipartisan, bicameral “Supporting Grandparents Raising Grandchildren Act” (S.1091) has been signed into law. McGovern and King introduced the House version of the bill earlier this year as a companion to legislation filed in the Senate by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA). Over 2.5 million children in America are being raised by their grandparents – a number experts expect will only grow as the opioid epidemic continues to ravage communities across America. Often, when parents are battling addiction and unable to raise a child, that responsibility falls to a grandparent. The bill creates a federal advisory council focused on developing and disseminating information designed to help grandparents. “Grandparents across America are stepping up to provide love and support for children whose parents are struggling with addiction,” said Congressman McGovern. “These grandparent-led households face unique challenges. They may not have time to plan financially, or it may be difficult for them to access school or healthcare information. Our new advisory council will help grandparents navigate the complex challenges that come with caring for a grandchild.” “Grandparents play a crucial and increasingly significant role in the lives of their grandchildren. Unfortunately in the wake of the opioid crisis grandparents often step in to raise the children unexpectedly with little to no support. As a result, many grandparents are left without adequate information or resources to help them with their caregiving duties. I am proud to have worked with Congressman McGovern on this important legislation and believe it will have a significant impact,” said Congressman King. The Advisory Council will examine information about addressing mental health issues, navigating school systems, and building social and support networks that create the best possible environment for children. Over 40 older adult and child advocacy groups lent their support to the bill, including the AARP and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
06.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and a senior member of House Democratic leadership, issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s family separation policy: “President Trump’s policy of separating children from their parents is cruel, it is un-American, and it is evil. There is no law requiring that these children be ripped away from their parents – this is a policy of choice. In fact, U.S. and international law specifically protects those who arrive at our border seeking asylum. The President could end this policy today with a single call – yet he has instead chosen to use these vulnerable children as a political bargaining chip. “This is not who we are as a nation. A majority of Americans do not support this, and will not tolerate such terrible acts of inhumanity from our own government. “Democrats in Congress have introduced the Keep Families Together Act to stop family separations. If the Republican majority wants to end this outrageous situation, they could do so in a heartbeat – by supporting this bill. I hope my Republican colleagues find the political courage and basic human decency to do so.”
06.17.2018	WASHINGTON - U.S. Congressman James P. McGovern, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives and a leading advocate for human rights, issued the following statement following the election of Iván Duque as President of Colombia: I wish the new president of Colombia every success in bringing peace and prosperity to all Colombians, and in implementing fully the peace accords that ended over a half-century of internal conflict. Recently, 73 Members of Congress expressed urgent and grave concern to Secretary of State Pompeo about the escalating rate of murders of Colombia’s human rights defenders and local social leaders. As the new president, it now falls to Mr. Duque to put an end to these violent attacks against so many of Colombia’s community leaders and to end the de facto control of so much of Colombia’s territory by violent paramilitary and criminal groups that threaten and murder these local leaders. He must also bring to justice those regional and national vested interests who have long-benefited from such violence. I look forward to working with the new president to achieve these important goals.
06.08.2018	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and a senior member of House Democratic leadership, announced that Matthew Bonaccorsi has been promoted to Communications Director, overseeing communications at both the district and national level. Bonaccorsi was raised in Medford, Massachusetts, and is a graduate of UMass, Amherst. He has worked in McGovern’s Washington, D.C. office for two years. Previously, he served as Deputy Press Secretary to the Senate President of Massachusetts, and as a Field Organizer on Elizabeth Warren’s 2012 United States Senate race. “I’m thrilled to have Matt step into this new role,” said McGovern. “His local roots and communications expertise will prove invaluable as Democrats continue to clearly and forcefully speak the truth to a White House that lies without any hesitation or shame.” “I’ve been lucky to see firsthand the incredible passion and commitment that Congressman McGovern exhibits every day while fighting for the people of Massachusetts,” said Bonaccorsi. “I’m honored to be part of the top-notch team he has assembled, and proud to continue working for such an inspiring leader.” He can be reached at Matt.Bonaccorsi@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-6101, and on Twitter @Mattb_MA
06.01.2018	WORCESTER, MA – Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and active voice in Congress for workers’ rights, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s recent issuing of a series of executive orders intended to strip federal employees of their right to representation at the worksite. “President Trump promised American workers that he would have their backs, but these executive orders are just the latest example of how he’s broken that promise,” Congressman McGovern said. “This is a blatant attack by President Trump on the legal rights and protections on the 2 million workers who proudly serve our country in the public sector. Congress specifically guaranteed these rights and protections to ensure that our civil servants would have a strong voice in the workplace. “America’s federal workers serve our country in so many ways. Whether it’s ensuring our food is safe to eat, caring for our wounded veterans, or helping cities recover from hurricanes and other disasters, they are always putting their fellow citizens first,” McGovern added. “They deserve our thanks, not these harmful executive orders which will eliminate the protections they deserve. This is just wrong and I will work with my colleagues in Congress to reverse this policy and do all we can to protect these essential worker rights.” The executive orders issued by President Trump call for: • Negotiating new contracts with federal employee unions. Agencies are also encouraged to complete labor negotiations in less than a year. • Renegotiating contracts to limit to 25 percent the amount of time federal employees who are authorized to work on behalf of a labor union can spend on union business during work hours. The order also cuts back on the ability of workers to pursue complaints against their employer on official time. • Shortening the length of time it takes to terminate a federal worker for poor performance or misconduct. What the executive orders fail to mention is the potential impact these changes would have on worker representatives who have used official time in ways that directly benefit taxpayers. In the past, they have used this time to: • Blow the whistle on management’s attempt to cover up an outbreak of Legionnaires disease that killed and sickened veterans in Pittsburgh; • Address an incident in which a noose was placed on the chair of an African-American worker at the U.S. Mint in Philadelphia; • Mitigate the impact of Army downsizing on employees and their families; • Expedite the processing of benefits to veterans and their survivors; and • Successfully negotiate equipping federal correctional officers with pepper spray to keep them safe on the job. ###
05.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (MA-02), Eliot Engel (NY-16), John Lewis (GA-05), Norma Torres (CA-35), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) and Hank Johnson (GA-04) led a letter signed by 73 Members of Congress to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo urging him and the Trump Administration to protect Colombian human rights defenders and social leaders amid a dangerous escalation of targeted murders. This is a critical time as Colombia continues its effort to implement their historic peace accords and elects its next president to lead the country. Click here to view letter. The letter calls on the Trump Administration to use the resources of the State Department, U.S. Agency for International Development and all other related U.S. departments and agencies to speak with one voice and actively support the security and protection of human rights and social leaders and their communities. The lawmakers, including 14 Ranking Members of key House Committees, emphasized that resolving this crisis is essential to the national security and economic interests of both the United States and Colombia. “America must stand up for human rights at home and around the world. Colombia is facing a human rights crisis at a critical time as they continue the essential process of implementing the historic peace accords which ended their decades-long war,” Rep. McGovern said. “We strongly urge the State Department and USAID to provide the resources and necessary support for Colombia to end this terrible violence and secure the peace so many have fought for. It is essential that the U.S. press the current Colombian government and its successor to make these actions a priority.” “Day after day, we see alarming reports on the increasing rates at which human rights defenders and social leaders are being murdered in Colombia,” Rep. Engel said. “The Colombian government must step up their efforts to protect these individuals. At the same time, I urge the State Department and USAID to increase assistance to address this crisis.” “The United States must act immediately to support the men and women on the ground in Colombia struggling to protect human rights, promote freedom of association, and liberate the country from violence and extrajudicial killings,” Rep. DeLauro said. “We cannot stand idly by while grassroots organizers, unionists, and civil society advocates are threatened and murdered. Allowing such violations of international human rights in Colombia to go unchecked is unacceptable.” “The recent spike in killings of innocent Colombians at the hands of drug traffickers and paramilitaries is an affront to human rights,” said Rep. Torres. “I am proud to join Rep. McGovern in demanding justice for these crimes. We have a strong national interest in a stable and prosperous Colombia.” “Colombia’s workers and human rights activists – especially Afro-Colombians and members of the indigenous communities – have long faced violence, persecution and a lack of opportunity, which in turn further perpetuates a cycle of poverty in Colombia,” said Rep. Johnson. “As the moral and economic leader of the world, the U.S. must espouse policies that break this cycle. We must insist on protection for Colombian labor activists facing political persecution and death simply for forming a union or fighting for basic civil and human rights. We cannot turn a blind eye to these abuses.” Joining Representatives McGovern, Engel, Lewis, Torres, DeLauro, Schakowsky, and Johnson on the letter are Representatives Bobby Scott, Nita Lowey, Richard Neal, Bill Pascrell, John Yarmuth, Robert Brady, Frank Pallone, Ted Deutch, Raul Grijalva, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Nydia Velazquez, Peter DeFazio, Sander Levin, Joe Crowley, Zoe Lofgren, Keith Ellison, Mark Pocan, Ruben Gallego, David Price, David Cicilline, Michael Capuano, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Yvette Clarke, Gwen Moore, Paul Tonko, Jose Serrano, Peter Welch, Anna Eshoo, Tim Ryan, Luis Gutierrez, Bobby Rush, Ro Khanna, Don Beyer, Barbara Lee, Earl Blumenauer, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Danny Davis, Pramila Jayapal, Alan Lowenthal, Emanuel Cleaver, Mark DeSaulnier, Matt Cartwright, Carol Shea-Porter, Dina Titus, Adriano Espaillat, Jamie Raskin, Steve Cohen, Gregory Meeks, Jackie Speier, Lucille Royball-Allard, Karen Bass, Mike Quigley, Kathy Castor, Donald Payne, Anthony Brown, Robin Kelly, Chellie Pingree, Grace Napolitano, Colleen Hanabusa, Daniel Lipinski, Beto O’Rourke, Suzanne Bonamici, Brendan Boyle, Bill Keating, Betty McCollum, and Stephen Lynch. Click here to view letter online. Full Text of the Letter is Below: May 29, 2018 The Honorable Mike Pompeo Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Pompeo, We write with great urgency to express concern about the accelerating rate of murders of social leaders and human rights defenders in Colombia. We respectfully call upon you to ensure that the State Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development and all other related U.S. departments and agencies are actively engaged – in word, deed and resources – in bringing the perpetrators of these crimes to justice. We further call upon you to protect these national and local leaders, their families and communities and ensure that these attacks do not undermine or debilitate the implementation of Colombia’s historic peace accords. We emphasize that this human rights priority is essential to the national security and economic interests of both the United States and Colombia. Colombian human rights defenders and social leaders have increasingly been targeted for assassination. According to data from the Colombia Office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHRO), attacks against human rights defenders in Colombia have increased by thirty percent over the past year. In its 2017 report, UNHRO-Colombia reported 121 killings, whose fatalities included 84 human rights defenders with leadership roles, 23 members of social and political movements, and 14 people killed during social protests. Colombia’s Human Rights Ombudsman (Defensoría del Pueblo) recorded between January 2016 and the end of February 2018 a total of 282 murders of social leaders and human rights defenders in the country, including 22 during the first two months of 2018. During the first two and a half months of 2018, the Colombian human rights group, Somos Defensores, cited 27 killings. This means that a Colombian social leader is murdered every two and a half days. On March 27th, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) expressed its concern over the high number of murders of human rights defenders and social leaders registered this year in Colombia and urged the Colombian government to take urgent measures to protect human rights defenders and social leaders. As you know from Deputy Secretary of State Sullivan’s recent visit to the region, Colombia is in the midst of its presidential elections, and it is implementing a complex peace accord that ended more than 52 years of conflict with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Between the 1970s and the 2000s, thousands of political party candidates, rural leaders, labor organizers and other social leaders were murdered. The peace accord is predicated on the idea that all Colombian citizens can participate in politics and social projects without fear of violence or being killed. It is vital that Colombia demonstrate that activists and competing political actors can engage safely in political and social discourse. If targeted murders continue unabated, they will likely contribute to increased violence. That would be a blow to U.S. economic, trade and national security interests in Colombia and Latin America, and a major setback to decades of U.S. investments to strengthen Colombian civil society and judicial systems and promote respect for basic human rights. For these reasons, the recent explosion in attacks and killings of social leaders is of utmost concern. Many local leaders who lived for years in territory under guerrilla control have now begun to raise their voices. Ominously, they face efforts to silence and terrorize them. Whether coordinated or not, these attacks are happening throughout the country. Among the individuals and groups who appear to be most targeted are: • People denouncing human rights abuses or acts of corruption in their communities. • Indigenous and Afro-Colombian leaders seeking to assert their communities’ cultural, collective land and property rights. • Participants in non-violent progressive and grassroots political movements, whose physical integrity and right of participation are guaranteed by the peace accord. • Land rights advocates, small farmers and families trying to recover land that was stolen or violently usurped by illegal armed groups during the conflict. In many cases those targeting them are the current occupants of that land, or the locally prominent and politically connected individuals for whom they serve as stand-ins and who use illegal armed groups or hired assassins to carry out their bidding. • Leaders of “Community Action Boards,” local advisory councils established by a 1960s law. Violent groups and local bosses often view these Boards as a threat to their authority. • People and campesino association members participating in crop substitution programs mandated by the peace accord to help communities stop growing coca, which is central to advancing anti-narcotics efforts and generating alternatives to the illegal coca economy. In effect, they are being killed for their support of government crop substitution and rural reform policies. According to the UNHRO and credible Colombian and international human rights organizations, the masterminds and perpetrators of these killings represent a specific group of actors: paramilitary or organized crime groups; smaller guerrilla groups like the Ejército de Liberación Nacional (ELN); remnants of former guerrilla organizations that resisted demobilization; those who control or benefit from local drug trafficking, illegal mining, extortion and other illegal activities; and large landowners and regional special interests who use violence against political rivals, small farmers they seek to dispossess of land, and independent leaders and social organizations in order to maintain their authority and control. In the past, Colombian authorities have shown that when it is important to them to lower the number of such killings, they are capable of doing so. And, while physical protection is important for those facing the highest known level of risks, it is expensive and impractical to provide it for every individual under threat. For these reasons, protection mechanisms must be combined with other decisive action. First and most importantly is to swiftly bring to justice those who plan and orchestrate these murders, and not just the “triggermen” who execute the killings. Second, is for Colombian authorities at all levels to send clear, public and consistent messages that perpetrators, collaborators and beneficiaries of these crimes will face consequences. Third, is to dismantle illegal and violent armed actors that continue to murder and attack social leaders and the economic structures that support them. Fourth, is for the Colombian authorities to establish security and functioning state resources and presence in regions vacated by the FARC guerrillas, as required by the peace accords. And fifth, is for Colombia to achieve a complete peace by advancing the peace process in Havana with the ELN, understanding that successful negotiations require good faith and the commitment to end violence and conflict on the part of the ELN. We strongly urge the State Department and USAID to provide the resources and necessary support for Colombia to achieve these objectives, including pressing the current Colombian government and its successor to make these actions a priority. Congress has provided ample funds in FY 2018 for Colombia for these purposes and others. This should include more vigorous support for and insistence on results by the special units and mechanisms within the Attorney General’s Office and those mandated by the peace accords to address paramilitary violence and the dismantling of criminal and other violent structures. It should also include continued support and more demonstrated results on the ground from the Department of Labor’s International Labor Affairs Bureau (ILAB), which has advanced labor rights and protections; and the State Department’s Race, Ethnicity and Social Inclusion Unit (RESIU) and the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor (DRL), which play an integral role in assessing the ongoing labor, human rights and civil rights challenges confronting Afro-Colombian and Indigenous communities. More specifically, we urge the State Department and USAID to provide more resources for investigations, prosecutions and protection and to guarantee full compliance with the U.S. conditions on military assistance to Colombia. This should include increased support to the UNHRO-Colombia, the Human rights Ombudsman (Defensoría del Pueblo), the Inspector General (Procuraduría), the Interior Ministry’s National Protection Unit, and the Attorney General’s Office (Fiscalía General) in the form of technology, technical support, aid for administrative salaries and logistical expenses so they can increase their coverage throughout the country. It is especially important that within the Attorney General’s Office that the Special Unit to Dismantle Organized Crime and Paramilitary Successor Groups and the Human Rights Unit demonstrate concrete results. The State Department and USAID should direct and coordinate with other U.S. departments and agencies, including the Defense Department, to prioritize ending the murders of social leaders and human rights defenders so that the U.S. Government speaks with one voice and is publicly seen by all sectors inside Colombia to be engaged on all fronts to address this priority. The U.S. might also determine how best it can support and advance the elite corps of National Police, formed by the peace accord, the unit which has been responsible for most arrests so far of alleged material authors or “triggermen.” Finally, when the National Commission for Security Guarantees, also created by the peace accord, develops its action plan to address paramilitary networks responsible for many of these killings, the State Department and USAID should determine how best to support the Commission, Colombian authorities, and civil society in achieving the plan’s objectives. People getting away with murder must know that there are and will be consequences to their actions. It is critical for Colombia’s present and future that it demonstrates it is a country where one can freely and openly engage in non-violent political and social action without the risk of assassination. Please know that we stand ready to work with you to advance these measures and achieve these goals as quickly as possible. Sincerely, cc: John J. Sullivan, Deputy Secretary of State Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Martha E. Newton, Deputy Undersecretary of International Labor Affairs, Department of Labor Francisco Palmieri, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs Michael G. Kozak, Senior Advisor/Senior Official, Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor Nikki Haley, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Kevin Whitaker, U.S. Ambassador to Colombia ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior member of House Democratic leadership and leading voice on nuclear non-proliferation, released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Trump Administration will pull out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), known as the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “President Trump’s decision to pull out of the Iran Deal by not extending waivers on Iran sanctions is one of the most reckless and dangerous things he’s done since taking office. “In the absence of any concrete evidence of an Iranian violation, the President’s rash decision to violate the JCPOA isolates us from our international partners who worked diligently with us and negotiated in good faith to bring about this landmark agreement that closed all pathways to Iran’s nuclear weapon activities. Ironically, Iran might now decide to resume its quest for nuclear weapons and can rightfully blame the U.S. for violating the agreement. “Walking away from the JCPOA will add to escalating tensions in the region and the threat of war or military confrontation with Iran becomes more likely. Successfully confronting Iran’s hostile actions elsewhere has just been made more difficult now that Trump has abandoned the JCPOA. “Just weeks away from U.S. talks with North Korea aimed at decreasing tensions and limiting the nuclear threat posed by that country, President Trump has demonstrated that his word and the credibility of the United States cannot be trusted. “By abandoning the Iran Deal, as well as adding other poorly-conceived unilateral sanctions and conditions against Iran, President Trump has put America’s national security at risk and the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran back on the table. “Americans deserve better from their leaders. I urge President Trump to immediately reconsider this dangerous move and put the safety of the American people first by reversing this terrible decision.” ###
05.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ranking Member of the House Rules Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, issued the following statement following the Trump Administration’s decision today to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for thousands of Hondurans: “I am outraged by this cruel, narrow-minded and self-defeating decision by the Trump Administration to end legal protections for 57,000 Hondurans who have resided in the United States since 1999. In its own description of Honduras, the State Department describes a country where “violent crime, such as homicide and armed robbery, is common” and “violent gang activity, such as extortion, violent street crime, rape, and narcotics and human trafficking, is widespread,” and where “local police and emergency services” fail to respond effectively. It is also a place where boys and girls are violently and forcibly recruited into gang life and sexual slavery. Why we would force law-abiding, tax-paying, productive members of our communities back to one of the most violent places on the planet defies imagination. “Despite her protestations, Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen has the discretion to extend temporary protected status for these long-time residents of the United States, just as she has the authority to re-designate the reason for providing TPS to these individuals and families based on how conditions on-the-ground fail to guarantee the safety and security of returnees. Her failure to exercise these prerogatives underscores the hostile environment facing all immigrants today in the United States, including those who are here lawfully, like these Hondurans. To date, the Trump Administration has stripped legal protections from Salvadoran, Honduran, Haitian, Nicaraguan, Sudanese and Nepalese long-time TPS holders.”
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a member of House Democratic leadership and the Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Committee’s Nutrition Subcommittee delivered the following speech denouncing the 2018 Republican Farm Bill for its extreme cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Congressman McGovern said the more than $23 billion in cuts to the anti-hunger program would hurt families across the country. Click here to view video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech. “Last week, after turning their backs on bipartisanship, Republicans on the Agriculture Committee advanced a highly partisan farm bill that hurts our most vulnerable constituents. “The farm bill cuts the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, known as SNAP, by over $23 billion. It eliminates state flexibility, erects new barriers to accessing the program, and creates a massive new untested and underfunded bureaucracy. Most troubling, the bill reduces or eliminates benefits for nearly two million kids, veterans, working families, and other vulnerable adults. “The bill was drafted in secret and is not reflective of the 23 hearings that our Committee held on SNAP over the past two and a half years. In fact, I’m having a difficult time determining where some of these controversial provisions originated. Were they cooked up at some far right-wing think tank? Did they come from some outlier in the Trump Administration? “Were they the creation of Speaker Ryan, who is desperate to pass his extreme welfare reform agenda before he retires at the end of this Congress? This secretive, closed process has left me with more questions than I have answers. It’s awful, and it’s not the way the People’s House should operate. It’s not fair to our constituents. “Last week I came to the House floor and outlined some of the most troubling provisions Chairman Conaway and House Republicans insisted on including in this bill. Today, I’d like to take a few minutes to share with my colleagues who will be harmed if this reckless proposal is allowed to advance. “Provisions in the Republican farm bill specifically target millions of older adults over the age of 50 who rely on SNAP to put food on the table when times are tough. While SNAP law already includes strict work requirements and time limits, House Republicans are now seeking to completely cut off assistance for people who are unable to find work or a suitable job training program. And they are doing this without a serious plan that would actually help them find work. It’s a rotten thing to do. To make matters worse, Republicans are extending these mandatory work requirements to people up to the age of 60. “AARP, our country’s leading voice for those over 50, has cautioned Chairman Conaway and Republicans in Congress that it is particularly difficult for individuals over 50 to find consistent work. In a letter to our Committee, AARP’s Senior Vice President for Government Affairs Joyce Rogers said this bill could ‘increase food insecurity and likely have negative consequences on health.’ “This damaging mandatory work proposal doesn’t just impact older Americans; it extends to other groups, as well. For example, under this bill, thousands of veterans will lose access to SNAP benefits if they can’t find work or a job training program. Veterans. Men and women who have put their lives on the line for us. The least we can do – the very least – is ensure they have access to modest food benefits when they fall upon hard times. “Among the other vulnerable adults who will subjected to mandatory work requirements are teenagers just aging out of foster care, people with underlying mental health issues, chronically homeless individuals, and ex-offenders with nowhere else to turn. “Are these the people we want to be turning our backs on? Their lives are already challenging. This Republican Congress should not be making it more difficult for them to survive. “Other provisions in this terrible bill target working families with kids. The bill eliminates an important provision that provides states with the flexibility to raise income cutoffs and ease asset limits. Taking away this state option cuts 400,000 eligible households – 900,000 adults and kids – off of SNAP and takes free school meals away from 265,000 kids. “Sadly, this bill also limits access to benefits for people with disabilities. It imposes new paperwork requirements on SNAP recipients with out of pocket utility costs, placing more burdens on those living with disabilities. While there appear to be some exceptions to the burdensome work requirements I noted earlier for people with disabilities, many others who may not meet the statutory definition, or who have not yet been identified, would be cut off of assistance. That’s why the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities sent our Committee a letter strongly opposed to this bill. “I could spend hours pointing out the bad provisions in this bill, but I’ll close by once again urging this Republican leadership to stop their attacks on those living in poverty. Pull this bill. Pull this awful bill. Let’s work together to craft a bipartisan farm bill that supports our farmers and our nutrition programs. Let’s advance a bill we can all be proud of. Negotiate a bipartisan bill. Stop insisting on this $23 billion cut to SNAP benefits. Let’s pass a good farm bill, not this partisan nightmare. “And I urge the Republican leadership in this Congress to join with us to end hunger now. Stop trying to make hunger worse. Let’s work together to end hunger now. It’s our moral imperative.” Click here to view video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech. ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a member of House Democratic Leadership and the Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Committee's Nutrition Subcommittee, delivered the following statement at the House Agriculture Committee's markup of the 2018 Farm Bill: "Mr. Chairman, let me begin by saying how deeply frustrated I am by this process. It’s shameful what Republicans on this Committee have done here. "I wanted to serve on the House Agriculture Committee to be part of a process that helps our farmers and addresses the challenges of hunger and food insecurity that are all too common in our country. I got on this Committee to legislate, not to have my views ignored and not to merely sit here like a potted plant. "I am the Ranking Member of the Nutrition Subcommittee, and last Thursday – just 6 days ago – was the first time I saw even one word of the nutrition title. To the best of my knowledge, it was the first time any Democrat on the Nutrition Subcommittee saw any of the language. "Is that how this process is supposed to work, Mr. Chairman? "How could anyone, how could any of you with a straight face, defend this process? "Our Committee held 23 hearings on SNAP over the past two and a half years, and I attended each and every one of them. I believed you when you said this was part of a commitment to “good policy,” and I believed that our work would be in the tradition of this committee, which is bipartisan and sensible. How wrong I was to believe any of that. "In the past, even when I haven’t been able to support some of the legislation that has advanced out of this Committee, I have always had confidence in the process. I have had confidence that minority views were heard and considered – confidence that my views mattered. Mr. Chairman, you have completely turned that longstanding practice and tradition upside down. "If it was never the intention for us to participate in the process, if it was the plan all along to use this Committee, and this Farm Bill, as one last-ditch effort at advancing Speaker Ryan’s flawed “welfare reform” plan, then why did you—for two and a half years—parade all of these experts before the Committee? "Not a single one of our 90 witnesses suggested any of the controversial provisions have been included in this partisan Farm Bill. "Not a single one asked us to eliminate flexibility for states or to increase administrative burden. Not a single one asked us to make the “cliff” any steeper. "Not a single one of those who testified – liberal or conservative – asked us to kick hundreds of thousands of working families out of the program and hundreds of thousands of kids off of free school meals. "Not a single one told us to add hurdles for families with heating or cooling costs. "Not a single one of them asked us to create an untested and underfunded massive new bureaucracy that states will not be able to implement. "Not a single one of them suggested we kick vulnerable adults off of benefits when they can’t find work. In fact, I recall several witnesses telling us that vulnerable adults needed more time on the program, not less, to help them get by when times are tough. "My Republican colleagues on this Committee are contorting themselves every which way to try to support this process and this product – to rationalize and defend the indefensible. Why? How could anybody in good conscious vote for this? "If we actually held a hearing on what you are proposing; if you actually called local and state officials to react to what is in this nutrition title; if you actually asked beneficiaries and anti-hunger advocates to react to this – I guarantee you, this Committee would get an earful. "This language is so unworkable and so out of touch and, quite frankly, so insulting to the most vulnerable in our country. "This bill cuts SNAP benefits by over $20 billion and reduces or eliminates benefits for nearly two million kids, veterans, working families, and other vulnerable adults. It is shameful. "This should stop now. Stop this markup and lets get back to a bipartisan process that has been the tradition of this committee. And let’s get back to a bipartisan process that will produce a bill the we all can be proud of. "I don’t know why SNAP has become such a political football for my friends on the other side of the aisle. This is more than just numbers and statistics. We’re talking about real people. People who are struggling in this country." ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee and a member of House Democratic leadership, released the following statement on the House Republican farm bill released today. “The process that produced this farm bill shows that Congress is broken. “The farm bill is more than 600 pages and was dumped on our laps just hours ago with Republicans planning to rush it to a vote in committee next week. We are still reviewing it, but the fact that this farm bill was written in secret behind closed doors tells you Republicans don’t want Americans to understand what’s in it and who is hurt by it. “The House Agriculture Committee has held 23 hearings on SNAP – America’s premier anti-hunger program. Chairman Conaway promised that this farm bill would reflect the findings of those SNAP hearings. Not a single witness, Republican or Democrat, conservative or liberal, testified in favor of these types of changes. In fact, nearly every witness sought to strengthen SNAP and increase its benefits. “Farm bills are supposed to be an investment in our farms, our farmers, and the programs that help them to feed America. Farm bills shouldn’t be about beating up on poor people, but this farm bill significantly reduces and cuts benefits for millions of the most vulnerable in our country. “The bottom line is this farm bill will make hunger worse in America. This farm bill does not represent my values or the values of the people I represent. America’s farmers and the American people deserve so much better.” . ###
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement following his appointment as Ranking Member of the U.S. House Rules Committee: “I am deeply grateful to Leader Pelosi for this opportunity to serve. I am humbled by the support of my Democratic colleagues. And I am eager to continue our work together to advance a bold agenda that reflects the priorities of the American people. “My friend and mentor, Massachusetts Congressman Joe Moakley, once held this seat – he was appointed by a fellow Massachusetts member of Congress, Speaker Thomas P. ‘Tip’ O’Neill Jr., who also served on the Rules Committee. I am inspired by their example and I know they are both with me in spirit as I take on this new responsibility. It is a great honor for me to continue their proud legacy on the Rules Committee.” ###
04.06.2018	WORCESTER, MA - U.S. Congressman James P. McGovern, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives and a leading advocate for human rights, issued the following statement this week in response to the April 4th decision by the Bahraini government to deny entry to the country to Lars Aslan Rasmussen, a Danish Member of Parliament, and Brian Dooley, a member of the Board of the Gulf Centre for Human Rights (GCHR), claiming the two posed a "security risk." “It is deeply troubling that the Bahraini government has denied entry to Lars Aslan Rasmussen, a Danish Member of Parliament, and Brian Dooley of the Gulf Centre for Human Rights (GCHR),” Congressman McGovern said. “Bahrain’s human rights situation continues to worsen. There is virtually no democratic space – no peaceful avenues to criticize the government or express opposition. Declaring these two men a ‘security risk’ is ludicrous and just makes clear that the Bahraini authorities are terrified of independent human rights scrutiny. “Bahrain’s decision is a sign of weakness and must be condemned by all who support free and open societies,” McGovern added. “I look forward to hearing a full report from Rasmussen and Dooley when they have safely returned.” Rasmussen and Dooley were hoping to visit human rights defender Abdulhadi Al-Khawaja, a Danish citizen and founder of the Gulf Centre for Human Rights. Al-Khawaja was arrested in April 2011, tortured, and given a life sentence after an unfair military trial. After being denied entry, Bahraini authorities retained the passports of Rasmussen and Dooley for more than 14 hours. Congressman McGovern and Dooley were previously denied entry to Bahrain in August 2014. ###
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL), co-chairs of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and Representatives Michael Capuano (D-MA), Tom Rooney (R-FL), and Barbara Lee (D-CA) led a bipartisan letter calling on President Trump and the State Department to develop and implement a U.S. policy that holds Sudan accountable for their corruption and human rights abuses. Click here to view the letter online. Last October, President Donald Trump signed an executive order removing many trade and economic sanctions against Sudan. The Administration is currently designing a framework to evaluate Sudan’s domestic and international conduct. The purpose of the framework will determine the future course of bilateral relations. According to media reports and human rights groups, in 2018, the Sudanese government is carrying out a crackdown against independent media, religious minorities, and political and civil society opposition voices. There are also credible reports of increased violence against ethnic minorities, refugees and displaced communities, including inside Darfur, who are overwhelmingly non-Arab African ethnicity. “Our bipartisan letter to President Trump sends a clear message that both Democrats and Republicans believe America must stand up for human rights and hold Sudan accountable. President Trump’s lifting of sanctions on Sudan last year after little to no progress in the human rights and humanitarian crises there was deeply troubling,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “Sudan’s president and other high officials have been internationally indicted for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The U.S. must not ignore the continued suffering under Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir’s brutal rule. Today we are urging the Trump Administration to take the strong steps needed to advance a U.S. policy that holds Sudan accountable for their human rights abuses and corruption, and creates strong incentives for the democratic reforms necessary to end the suffering and oppression there” “Since the United States lifted economic sanctions on Sudan last year, the Sudanese government has continued to bulldoze churches, imprison religious minorities and restrict the flow of humanitarian aid to conflict areas,” Congressman Randy Hultgren (R-IL) said. “This bipartisan letter urges the U.S. Department of State to tie economic incentives for Sudan to concrete and measurable human rights benchmarks that will help to stabilize the region and strengthen U.S. national security interests.” “For far too long, elites in the Sudanese government have profited from the suffering of civilians,” Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA) said. “The corruption, repression and human rights abuses evident in Sudanese government cannot be tolerated. That’s why my colleagues and I are urging the U.S. government to advance policies that protect the human rights and democratic priorities of the people of Sudan. We can and must do more to end the violence and oppression.” “Creating meaningful and lasting change in Sudan will not happen by the regime simply fulfilling the minimum requirements outlined in the initial five-track engagement plan,” Congressman Tom Rooney (R-FL) said. “I look forward to working with the State Department to ensure any further normalizing of relations is contingent on respecting the human rights and religious freedoms of the Sudanese people.” Click here to view the letter online. Joining U.S. Representatives McGovern, Hultgren, Lee, Rooney, and Capuano on the letter were U.S. Representatives Barbara Comstock, Eliot L. Engel, Gus M. Bilirakis, Nita M. Lowey, Barry Loudermilk, Joseph Crowley, Chris Stewart, John Lewis, Thomas A. Garrett, Jr., Frank Pallone, Jr., John A. Yarmuth, Raúl M. Grijalva, Peter A. DeFazio, David N. Cicilline, Earl Blumenauer, José E. Serrano, Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., Jan Schakowsky, Zoe Lofgren, Rosa L. DeLauro, Albio Sires, Bobby L. Rush, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr., Pramila Jayapal, Anna G. Eshoo, Mark Pocan, Chellie Pingree, Michael F. Doyle, Yvette D. Clarke, Steve Cohen, Alan S. Lowenthal, Ann McLane Kuster, Donald M. Payne, Jr., Peter Welch, Ro Khanna, Katherine M. Clark, Julia Brownley, Hakeem S. Jeffries, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Suzanne Bonamici, Carol Shea-Porter, Gwen Moore, Val B. Demings, Gregory W. Meeks, Emanuel Cleaver, II, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Mark DeSaulnier, Jamie Raskin, Alcee L. Hastings, Kyrsten Sinema, and David Scott. The full text of the letter is below: March 28, 2018 John Sullivan Deputy Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, DC 20520 Dear Deputy Secretary Sullivan, As you know, the Government of Sudan has a long and well-documented history of violence and repression against its population in order to maintain wealth and power for a small number of elites. We are gravely concerned about any U.S. policy that might result in further normalizing relations with a regime that routinely violates its citizens’ basic human rights, continues to support extremists and extremist groups, represses religious minorities, and steals the nation’s wealth while most of its people live in poverty. We encourage you to develop and advance a U.S. policy that recognizes these realities, addresses the Sudanese regime’s failures of good governance, and supports the opening of political space. We believe the Administration and Congress must work together to advance a policy that promotes a just society and human rights for all Sudanese. We urge the State Department and other appropriate agencies to develop transformational human rights and social and political benchmarks. These should be tied to real incentives, combined with meaningful new financial pressures, such as network sanctions and anti-money laundering measures that target those most responsible for violence and corruption in Sudan. Further, we suggest that the provisions outlining corruption and human rights abuse in Executive Order 13818 related to the Global Magnitsky Act might serve as a useful model to develop concrete benchmarks with regard to targeting individuals and entities engaged in continuing corruption and human rights abuses in Sudan. Corruption and mismanagement by the Sudanese regime has impoverished Sudan, with only a few wealthy and connected insiders amassing immense wealth. The regime relies on extractive industries and natural resource wealth, along with the weapons manufacturing sector, to facilitate personal enrichment. It has a history of blaming U.S. and international sanctions for its own failure to invest in its people and for serious macroeconomic problems. Yet recent demonstrations across Sudan tied to the rising cost of bread and other economic hardships expose the fallacy of these accusations. Corruption and the violent repression of the Sudanese people are the real culprits, as approximately 75% of Sudan’s budget is estimated to be spent on security and defense. For decades, Sudanese activists have risked their lives attempting to change their government from one that bulldozes churches, jails political prisoners and uses food as a weapon to one that respects religious minorities, treats all ethnic groups fairly and provides for the general well-being of its citizenry. The regime’s oppression of church communities and other minorities continued even while the regime was under intense scrutiny during the U.S. review on the removal of sanctions. In fact, the regime is implementing a policy of church demolitions and has had a formal policy in place since 2013 stipulating that no new churches can be built. U.S. policy should support the democratic aspirations of these courageous Sudanese and refuse to provide further relief from sanctions and a path to normalized relations unless core issues like religious freedom and ending the repression of its citizenry are addressed. While it is our understanding that the Sudanese regime has provided some assistance related to U.S. counter-terrorism efforts, this should be evaluated in the context of the regime’s historical support for extremist groups and terrorism, as well as its current tolerance of extremist groups and clerics that promote hate, both internationally and against religious minorities in Sudan. For example, jihadi groups are allowed to own and operate their own FM radio and satellite television channels and have been given prominent roles in higher education. Their speech and outreach efforts are protected. Meanwhile independent press and media are routinely shut down, and civil society and religious groups that promote peace and tolerance are violently dispersed and detained by security agents. For over a decade, Congress and the American people have supported the democratic aspirations of the people of Sudan. Pursuing a vision of Sudan that respects its diversity and protects the human rights of all Sudanese has been a bipartisan objective of Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives alike. Mr. Secretary, we respectfully urge you to pursue a policy that is informed by the history and context of Sudan, insists on foundational change, and is backed by strong financial pressure and real incentives. We firmly believe that such an agenda would have strong bipartisan support in Congress. Sincerely, ###
02.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL) introduced a bipartisan resolution yesterday that notes the upcoming 59th anniversary of Tibet’s 1959 uprising against Chinese rule – March 10, 2018 – and expresses support for a “Tibetan Rights Day.” The resolution focuses on one of the most important issues for the future of Tibet: the right of Tibetan Buddhists to determine their own leadership, including a future 15th Dalai Lama, free of outside interference from the Chinese Government. U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), and Ted Cruz (R-TX) introduced a companion resolution in the Senate. “America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights at home and abroad,” McGovern said. “This bipartisan resolution sends a strong message that Congress is committed to protecting the human rights and religious freedom of the Tibetan people and will continue to condemn any and all actions by the Chinese government to restrict these rights. “This resolution sends a strong message that Congress on a bipartisan front is united in our commitment to protect and defend religious freedom and human rights here and around the world,” Hultgren said. “We support the people of Tibet and the Tibetan faith community in their aspiration to protect their religious and cultural identity.” “We stand by the Tibetan people, who have long been our unwavering friends,” Leahy said. “We also stand by the rights of Tibetan Buddhists, not just in Tibet but around the world, who should be able to determine their own religious leadership in accordance with their inalienable right to religious freedom.” ###
02.14.2018	Representatives Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) and Jim McGovern (MA-02) today introduced the Saving America’s Pollinators Act to protect the health of honey bees and other critical pollinators. The United States lost an estimated one-third of its honeybee colonies between 2016 and 2017, with similar losses in prior years. To end this dramatic trend, the legislation suspends the use of bee-toxic insecticides known as neonicotinoids, which have been linked to declining pollinator populations. It also requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to complete a thorough assessment and ensure that any uses of these insecticides do not cause unreasonable and adverse effects on pollinators. “The health of our food system depends on the health of our pollinators. The status quo is like flying blind – we shouldn’t be using these pesticides when we don’t know their full impact,” said Rep. Blumenauer. “The EPA has a responsibility to get to the bottom of this issue and protect pollinators.” “Pollinators are the backbone of America’s agriculture system. Acting now to protect them and stop their decline is essential to the sustainability of our nation’s food supply,” Rep. McGovern said. “Simply taking the word of the manufacturers that their products are safe is not an option. Consumers need strong oversight. That is why I am proud to join Congressman Blumenauer in demanding the EPA fully investigate the effect that certain harmful pesticides may have on the vitality of our pollinators.” Over the past decade, documented incidents of honey bee colony collapse disorder and other forms of excess bee mortality have reached a record high. In some cases, beekeepers have repeatedly lost 100 percent of their operations. Thousands of scientific studies have implicated neonicotinoids as key contributors to declining pollinator populations. U.S. agriculture heavily relies on honey bees and native bees, which jointly provide an estimated $18 to $27 billion in pollination service annually. One of every three bites of food we eat is from a crop pollinated by bees. The Saving America’s Pollinator Act protects the health of our pollinators and food system until the EPA determines the risks associated with neonicotinoids.
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress working to strengthen anti-hunger and anti-poverty programs, released the following statement on the 2018 White House Budget proposed by President Trump. “This White House is immoral and Trump’s budget proves it. This budget makes some of the deepest cuts to federal programs that help America’s most vulnerable families. Just two months after giving tax cuts to his billionaire friends, President Trump is attacking our country’s poorest families by gutting life-changing programs that help them put food on the table and provide for their children. “President Trump may have been born with a silver spoon in his mouth, but many Americans have to work long hours doing backbreaking work just to get by. With the heartless cuts to SNAP – our country’s premier anti-hunger program – President Trump will be taking food out of the mouths of millions of families desperately working to escape poverty. Cutting more than $200 billion from SNAP that helps to feed millions of families every year and completely eliminating the McGovern-Dole food aid program that feeds millions around the world, is the lowest of lows. “Trump promised to protect Medicare and Medicaid on the campaign trail, but this budget makes dangerous cuts to these programs that will threaten healthcare access for millions of seniors and struggling families. “This budget is a cruel slap in the face of these hardworking families and one of the most immoral things I’ve seen come from this White House. If Speaker Ryan and House Republicans try to pass this obscene budget, they should be ready for one hell of a fight.” ###
01.24.2018	WORCESTER, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) presented the Congressional Award Bronze Medal to Rhea Krishnan, a Shrewsbury High School student who has completed more than 175 hours of service to the local community. Today’s award presentation took place at Congressman McGovern’s Worcester office and will include Rhea Krishnan’s family, teachers, and local community members. As part of her service to the community, Rhea Krishnan volunteered her time coaching a middle school robotics team for over three years. She learned to motivate students to take initiative in their education and develop an interest in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math). In the process, Rhea has learned to be an effective leader. For her Personal Development goal, Rhea wanted to expand her knowledge of robotics. To do this she learned to build a functioning life-size robot from scratch with her Shrewsbury High School robotics team. Through that work, she strengthened her understanding and passion for science, engineering, teamwork, and communication. Rhea’s Physical Fitness goal was to join the high school track team and run the 800 meter race in under three minutes. As a result of regular practice with her team, she not only improved her stamina, but ran the 800 meter race and shaved 21 seconds off her previous time. For her Expedition, Rhea planned a trip to Lake Umbagog in New Hampshire for her family. For five days they were immersed in wilderness without any modern amenities. ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on agriculture and hunger policy, joined Republicans and Democrats to launch the new bipartisan Food is Medicine Working Group, within the House Hunger Caucus. The new group will highlight the costs related to hunger and the importance of keeping U.S. agricultural and nutrition policy rooted in health-focused research that shows families and communities are healthier when they have access to nutritious food like fresh fruits and vegetables. “When families don’t have access to nutritious food, their health suffers. Too many families struggle to put food on the table. It is imperative that Congress and other policymakers understand that food is medicine. “We simply cannot address hunger and health as two separate issues. They’re two sides of the same coin. Community organizations are already doing incredible work across the country to connect chronically-ill patients with the food they need,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “With today’s launch of our new bipartisan Food is Medicine working group, we will work to elevate this issue and advance policy solutions that will help to ensure more chronically-ill people have access to medically tailored meals. Together, we can ensure food is seen as medicine and make real progress to end hunger across the country.” In addition to McGovern, the new group will be led by Representatives Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), and Roger Marshall (R-KS). Joining the lawmakers at today’s launch were leaders from Tufts University, the George Washington University Food Institute, Harvard Law School, and Feeding America. VIDEO: Click here to view video of today’s event. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on U.S. foreign policy on Central America, released the following statement condemning the move by President Trump and Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen to end Temporary Protected Status for more than 200,000 immigrants from El Salvador who came to the United States seeking safety. “Today’s move by President Trump to end the protections for these immigrants is sadly just his latest attack on these valued and important members of our communities. The Temporary Protected Status program has helped to provide refuge to thousands of immigrant families from El Salvador and throughout the region desperately fleeing warfare, violence, and disaster. El Salvador is one of the most dangerous countries in the world and there are few immigrants more deserving of this essential protection. “America has a proud legacy as a beacon of hope to the world, welcoming those who seek a better life. This decision by President Trump and Secretary Nielsen is a shameful and cynical move to punish these innocent families just to score political points with the extreme right wing Republican base. I am angry and dismayed at this cruel decision. It is a very distorted and narrow interpretation of the law, which provides flexibility to weigh current realities and not just the effects of the 2001 earthquake in El Salvador. “I helped draft the TPS law when I worked for Representative Joe Moakley in the 1980s. It was designed to be more concerned with protection than with duration. We must never play politics with people’s lives. America is better than this and I will do all I can in the next 18 months to fight this terrible decision and work with my colleagues to pass bipartisan legislation to help regularize the residency status of long-term TPS holders.” In December 2017, Congressman McGovern sent a letter directly to Secretary Nielsen urging the administration to extend, not terminate, TPS for Salvadorans here in the U.S. In September 2017, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan letter signed by 116 Members of Congress asking that TPS for El Salvador and Honduras be extended. In addition, a letter from leading Republicans at the time asked for the same. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in Congress, called for a change to United States policy on Syria, arguing that the current policy is not working to end the crisis there. Click here to view video. “I rise to condemn in the strongest possible terms the ongoing, unrelenting attacks against civilians in Syria committed by the barbaric, lawless regime of Bashir al-Assad, with the support of its Russian backers,” Congressman McGovern said. “As many as half a million people killed since the armed conflict began in March 2011, tens of thousands of them civilians. More than 11 million people displaced once and again, inside and outside of Syria’s borders – the largest single refugee crisis the world has seen since World War II. More than half of those displaced are children and youth. “The U.S. government heralded the military defeat of ISIS in Syria in November. But the defeat of ISIS has not and will not end the Syrian conflict. And Russia has not succeeded in pressuring Assad to end the conflict -- nor in restraining Assad’s attacks on civilians as he ostensibly targets rebel forces. Meanwhile, the humanitarian situation in Syria deteriorates every single day. “U.S. current policy is not working to end the crisis in Syria. It is time to change course – not by sending more Special Forces troops there without authorization, nor by promising to keep them there indefinitely to fight the next rise of ISIS. POLICY SOLUTIONS: Congressman McGovern called on President Trump, the administration, and Members of Congress to enact the following policies to help end the Syrian conflict and bring Assad to justice: • The U.S. must reassert its diplomatic leadership and exert real pressure on Assad and Russia to end the war. • The U.S. must establish a plan to transition Assad out of power. • Congress must pass H. Res. 632, condemning the senseless attacks on hospitals and medical personnel in Syria. • The U.S. must shame Russia for its failure to ensure humanitarian access. • The U.S. must increase its contributions to humanitarian assistance for Syria, and make full use of the option of cross-border assistance. • Americans must open our hearts to Syrian refugees and welcome them to this country. “The Syrian conflict has gone on for too long. The horror of it all can be mind-numbing,” McGovern concluded. “But we must not lose our outrage. Now is the time to reenergize our efforts and find a way to end the suffering.” Click here to view video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “I rise to condemn in the strongest possible terms the ongoing, unrelenting attacks against civilians in Syria committed by the barbaric, lawless regime of Bashir al-Assad, with the support of its Russian backers. “We have all heard the statistics, over and over again, like a broken record: “As many as half a million people killed since the armed conflict began in March 2011, tens of thousands of them civilians. “Tens of thousands more detained, disappeared, and perhaps or even likely dead, directly at the hands of the regime. “More than 11 million people displaced once and again, inside and outside of Syria’s borders – the largest single refugee crisis the world has seen since World War II. More than half of those displaced are children and youth. “Last summer much was made of the ceasefire agreement the Trump administration reached with the Russian government to establish "de-escalation zones" to stabilize Syria -- while keeping the Assad regime in power. “We were told the agreement would save lives. "All of the sudden you are going to have no bullets being fired in Syria," Trump said. “That has turned out not to be true. The de-escalation zones are not de-escalating. “As of late December, more than 400,000 people remained trapped – besieged – by regime forces in eastern Ghouta, one of the de-escalation zones, just half an hour’s drive from Damascus. “As Jan Egeland, UN Special Advisor on Syria, said last December, “There is no de-escalation zone, there is only escalation in this de-escalation zone.” “Idlib, another “de-escalation area,” suffered a dramatic increase in air attacks last September against armed groups not covered by the ceasefire agreement. In late December, airstrikes and shelling against a hospital, a medical warehouse and a vegetable market killed, injured and displaced scores of people. “The U.S. government heralded the military defeat of ISIS in Syria in November. “But the defeat of ISIS has not and will not end the Syrian conflict. “And Russia has not succeeded in pressuring Assad to end the conflict -- nor in restraining Assad’s attacks on civilians as he ostensibly targets rebel forces. “Meanwhile, the humanitarian situation in Syria deteriorates every single day. “World Vision estimates that 5.6 million people are in need of acute humanitarian assistance. The UN says a total of 13.1 million need some form of assistance. That’s 3 million more than at the end of 2016. The situation is worse today, after months of so-called “de-escalation,” than it was a year ago. “Of those 13 million, 3 million are trapped in besieged and hard-to-reach areas. That’s four and half times the population of Boston or Washington DC. “Humanitarian access to those areas is not guaranteed by the regime nor by its backers, in direct violation of international law and obligation. “Some of the most heart-breaking news out of Syria has to do with the crisis in health care. “The ‘weaponization’ of health care in Syria is not new, but the depravity of it still shocks me. “According to a recent report by researchers at the American University of Beirut, Syria has become “the most dangerous place on earth for health-care providers.” “According to the International Rescue Committee, in 2011 there was one doctor per 600 people in Syria. But now in East Ghouta, there is only one doctor per 3,600 people. “Medical supplies are not allowed into besieged areas, and terribly ill patients are not allowed out. What military or political purpose is served by denying medical evacuation to women and children suffering from heart disease, cancer, kidney failure and blood diseases? “U.S. current policy is not working to end the crisis in Syria. It is time to change course – not by sending more Special Forces troops there without authorization, nor by promising to keep them there indefinitely to fight the next rise of ISIS. “We need to reassert American diplomatic leadership and exert real pressure on Assad and Russia to end the war. “We need a plan to transition Assad out of power. “We need to pass H. Res. 632, condemning the senseless attacks on hospitals and medical personnel in Syria. “We need to shame Russia for its failure to ensure humanitarian access. “We need to increase our contributions to humanitarian assistance for Syria, and make full use of the option of cross-border assistance. “We need to open our hearts to Syrian refugees and welcome them to this country. “And we need to do everything in our power to ensure accountability for Assad’s victims. That includes funding the International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism to assist in the investigation and prosecution of war crimes. “The Syrian conflict has gone on for too long. The horror of it all can be mind-numbing. But we must not lose our outrage. Now is the time to reenergize our efforts and find a way to end the suffering.” ###
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As a brutal winter storm bears down on the Northeast, the Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and the Massachusetts Congressional delegation today called for the immediate release of as much as possible of the remaining 10 percent of Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds for this fiscal year. Nationwide, LIHEAP helps low-income households, veterans, and seniors pay their energy bills during the cold winter months. The Department of Energy forecasts that consumers across the Northeast will have to pay significantly more to heat their homes this winter. Families heating their homes with heating oil are anticipated to pay 21 percent more this winter. In the Northeast, families using natural gas or propane are projected to pay roughly 10 percent more than last year, and it will cost families heating with electricity nearly three and a half percent more. “Families in our state are in desperate need of the remaining LIHEAP funds to combat the deadly combination of sustained cold weather and high fuel prices,” write McGovern and the lawmakers in their letter. “No family should have to choose between paying their energy bills or paying for other necessities such as food or medicine during dangerously cold days, but a lack of additional LIHEAP funds means that thousands of families may soon have to face these terrible choices.” Joining McGovern on the letter are Senators Ed Markey and Elizabeth Warren, and Representatives Richard Neal, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, William Keating, Joseph P. Kennedy III, Katherine Clark and Seth Moulton Full text of the letter can be found below: January 4, 2018 Mr. Eric D. Hargan Acting Secretary and Deputy Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Acting Secretary Hargan: We are facing a home heating crisis in Massachusetts and the Northeast this winter. As families in Massachusetts face sustained low temperatures and high fuel prices this winter, we write to urge you to immediately release as much of the remaining 10 percent of Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funds for this fiscal year as possible. LIHEAP funding is indispensable to families in Massachusetts and across the United States during these frigid winter months, including seniors, children and individuals with disabilities. The program provides a crucial public safety and health service for millions of households across the country and hundreds of thousands in Massachusetts. Families in the Commonwealth will soon confront a home heating emergency as LIHEAP funds are exhausted while extreme cold weather continues to strike the region. Families in the Northeast are also facing heating fuel prices that are significantly higher than last winter. No family should have to choose between paying their energy bills or paying for other necessities such as food or medicine during dangerously cold days, but a lack of additional LIHEAP funds means that thousands of families may soon have to face these terrible choices. Because of the frigid cold combined with higher fuel prices, the Department of Energy (DOE) forecasts that consumers across the Northeast will have to pay significantly more to heat their homes this winter. Families heating their homes with heating oil are anticipated to pay 21 percent more this winter. In the Northeast, families using natural gas or propane are projected to pay roughly 10 percent more than last year and it will cost families heating with electricity nearly three and a half percent more. LIHEAP funds are quickly running out in Massachusetts. Families in our state are in desperate need of the remaining LIHEAP funds to combat the deadly combination of sustained cold weather and high fuel prices. We urge you to immediately release as much of the remaining funding in the LIHEAP account as possible to help families in Massachusetts and across the country as we approach a home heating emergency this winter. Sincerely, ###
12.22.2017	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – a strong voice in support of human rights, ending corruption, and advancing the rule of law in Honduras – issued the following statement in response to the announcement by the U.S. Department of State congratulating Juan Orlando Hernandez on his successful reelection as President of Honduras: “I am angry and deeply disturbed by the State Department’s announcement today congratulating Juan Orlando Hernandez on his successful re-election as President of Honduras. “The recent elections in Honduras were deeply flawed, chaotic and marred by numerous irregularities. These failings are detailed in reports issued by observer missions from the Organization of American States (OAS) and the European Union (EU). When tens of thousands of Hondurans took to the streets in peaceful protests against potential electoral fraud, they were met by excessive force from Honduran security forces, leading to the deaths of as many as two dozen civilians. The lack of integrity in the electoral process led the OAS Secretary General to call for new elections. “I believe supporting the call of the OAS Secretary General and holding new elections under international auspices would be the better course of action. Right now, very few Hondurans have confidence in the results and the country remains deeply polarized. For the U.S. government to pretend otherwise is the height of blind folly and it will surely harm our influence and undermine our priorities throughout the region in the days and weeks to come. “If we fail today to support democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Honduras, then we will not be able to find lasting solutions to the plagues of drug trafficking, criminality, violence, and corrupt institutions, politicians and political parties – all of which are factors driving waves of refugees and migrants to abandon their homes and seek safety and a better life for their families elsewhere. “Such solutions require a credible, legitimate government that has the support of its people and which is genuinely committed to the respect of basic human rights and the rule of law. “Congress approved aid to Honduras to help address the violence, lack of opportunity, and institutional weakness that have been driving migration. It tied that aid to evidence that Honduras is making progress on human rights, the rule of law, and ending corruption. I do not see signs of progress in Honduras right now, and I and many of my colleagues in Congress will be hard-pressed to approve the release of funds to President Hernandez’s government. “I will continue to raise my voice in support of human rights and the rule of law, and I strongly urge the Administration to do much more in pursuit of democracy and ending corruption in Honduras than it has thus far. Regrettably, I believe today’s announcement by the State Department is an error and a significant set-back.” McGovern recently joined several of his colleagues on two letters (which may be read here and here) to the State Department asking that it support the call for new, fair elections in Honduras. As Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives, he has closely monitored the human rights situation in Honduras for a number of years.
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Today the U.S. Department of Treasury announced that five people have been added to the list of those sanctioned under the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act. Three of the individuals in question are linked to the Magnitsky case, while the other two are Chechen officials sanctioned for gross human rights violations. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), senior House Democrat and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, praised the decision by the State Department. As the author of the original Magnitsky sanctions bill, Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in this effort and welcomed today’s action. “I celebrate today’s announcement that the U.S. government has imposed new sanctions on five more Russians under the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act – three for their involvement in the brazen fraud that led to Sergei’s brutal death, and two for gross human rights abuses in Chechnya. “It’s been eight years since Sergei Magnitsky was beaten and died in prison for trying to do the right thing. No one has been held accountable in Russia for what happened to him. “I am very pleased that the U.S. government continues to do its part to ensure some level of punishment. The addition of Andrei Pavlov and his former wife Yulia Mayorova is particularly significant because they were at the center of the $230 million fraud against Hermitage Capital that Magnitsky uncovered and was killed over. They’ve been important targets for a long time and I’m pleased they’ve finally been designated. “I also cannot overstate the importance of sanctioning Ayub Kataev for the abduction, detention and torture of over 100 men due to their actual or suspected sexual orientation. The Congress called for action like this when it passed House Resolution 351 last June. “Frankly, the best news today may be that the State and Treasury Departments have done their jobs by properly enforcing the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act. It is the Magnitsky sanctions that the Russian government has tried to block by reaching out first to the Trump campaign, then to the transition team, and then to the president and his staff. But in spite of Russia’s insidious efforts, the agencies of the U.S. government acted with honor. The sanction against Ramzan Kadyrov, a high-level figure useful to Putin, for overseeing an administration involved in disappearances and extrajudicial killings, is especially notable. “Even as I welcome this news, I recognize that there are many more individuals in Russia who could and should be sanctioned for their involvement in human rights abuses and corruption. I will continue to closely monitor the implementation of the Magnitsky law, as I have done since 2012, and to encourage the administration to pursue more investigations. A constructive U.S. relationship with Russia is important, but it cannot be built on a shaky foundation of corruption and condoning human rights violations.” Sergei Magnitsky was a lawyer hired by William Browder, the founder of Hermitage Capital Management, to investigate after the company was raided and transferred to Russian state control. Mr. Magnitsky helped file a number of criminal complaints and testified against officials involved in the raids, until he was arrested himself in retaliation. He was held in custody for 358 days, tortured, denied medical care and eventually beaten to death in 2009. After his death, a Russian court convicted Magnitsky of tax evasion. The trial was widely condemned internationally for setting a dangerous and chilling precedent. Congressman McGovern helped lead the passage of the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act in 2012, securing a bipartisan vote of 363-45 (PL 112-208). The law imposes visa bans and blocks the U.S. assets of certain Russian officials involved in Magnitsky’s death, and of other gross violators of human rights in Russia. The list of these individuals now comprises 49 names. Persons on this list are ineligible for visas and to be admitted to the United States. These individuals have also been added to the Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (“SDN List”). As a result, all assets of these individuals that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction or in the control of U.S. persons are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with them.
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim McGovern released the following statement after Republicans passed their tax bill through the House of Representatives: “President Trump, his family, and their wealthy friends got an early Christmas gift this year. This Republican tax bill will line their pockets and the pockets of their donors – giving the vast majority of tax breaks to those at the top and corporations shipping American jobs overseas, all the while exploding the deficit and raising taxes on hardworking Massachusetts families. 86% of the tax cuts contained in this bill go to the wealthiest 1% “Even worse, Speaker Paul Ryan jammed this tax bill through the House with zero hearings, zero input from Democrats, and almost no time for anyone to review the bill before we voted on it. “The American people will remember this as the moment that their economic future was auctioned off to the highest bidder. We need real, bipartisan tax reform that focuses on the middle class and those struggling in poverty.”
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and a leading voice for human rights in the U.S. Congress, commemorated the five-year anniversary of the signing into law of the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-208). Congressman McGovern is the House author of the law, which established visa restrictions and froze property transactions for individuals complicit in the November 2009 murder in prison of Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky or other grave human rights abuses. Magnitsky had uncovered a $230 million theft by corrupt Russian officials and brought it to the attention of the authorities. Instead of pursuing the corrupt officials, the Russian state retaliated against Magnitsky by arresting and imprisoning him, where he died after months of torture and mistreatment. “Today marks five years since the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act was signed into law and the United States took a powerful step to crack down on Russian corruption and attacks on human rights,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am proud to have introduced the very first version of this bill in the House April 2011 and to have led the effort on final passage. “In the last five years, 44 individuals have been sanctioned by the U.S. Treasury Department for their involvement in Sergei’s murder and other human rights abuses. That means these corrupt and abusive figures have been outed publicly and internationally and can no longer benefit from traveling to the United States and accessing their assets here. “Last December, the Congress passed the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, a bill I also co-authored, that uses a similar model of visa and financial sanctions to crack down on corruption and human rights abuses around the world. Yet the Trump administration has still not released the first list of individuals sanctioned under that law. “President Trump has repeatedly failed to stand up to Vladimir Putin despite the mountain of evidence which shows Russia interfered in our presidential election. And in all his meetings with world leaders, President Trump has not said one word about human rights. With a commander-in-chief who refuses to lead, there has never been a more important time for Congress to be strong in our defense of human rights and efforts to combat anti-democratic regimes around the world. “Visa and financial sanctions imposed by the U.S. government are not a substitute for strengthening rule of law in countries where human rights abuses occur. They are not a substitute for investigating and prosecuting officials who attack their own people. But as we wait for accountability for those officials, we know they will not benefit from coming to our country and doing business here. This is the least we can do in memory of victims like Sergei, and to help prevent others from suffering a similar fate.” ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) sharply criticized H.R. 38 the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017, a House Republican bill that would weaken gun safety standards by forcing states with strong concealed carry laws to recede to permits from states with weak or non-existent concealed carry laws. Click here to view video. “I look at this and ask myself, how much in the bag with the National Rifle Association is this leadership in this House? This makes no sense, that you are going to impose the weakest standards that exist in some states on other states with higher standards when it comes to allowing individuals to conceal and carry weapons. “Concealed carry reciprocity is the NRA's highest legislative priority in this Congress. So we all know why we're here today. Follow the money. This is about campaigning. This is about contributions to political parties and members of Congress who are worried about the next election. But this is not about what's in the best interest of the American people. “This bill we're taking up today would force states to let violent offenders, people with no firearm safety training, carry loaded hidden guns even if those people could not otherwise legally purchase a gun in the state. I mean, really? I don't get that. “Each state determines if it will recognize conceal carry permits issued by other states. Most states only recognize concealed carry permits with equivalent standards. This is a rush to the bottom. I'm trying to understand why anybody would think this is a good idea. “Massachusetts has the lowest firearms death rate in the entire country. I'm proud of that. Don't screw around with what we have done in my state by trying to forcibly, through statute, lower the standards. This is just not right.” Click here to view video. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks: “I can't believe this legislation is even before us. We have pressing, urgent things that need to be done like keep the government open, for example, that now has been pushed off and we don't know what's going to happen. We need to reauthorize the CHIP program to make sure our kids get access to healthcare. We have hurricane relief issues that we need to deal with. We have a zillion things that are urgent, that need to be dealt with now, and here we are dealing with this. “It is a little bit frustrating to sit here and be told there were no hearings on this legislation. I mean, it's December. It's not like we started a new session. It's December. It would have been nice to bring the police chief that Miss Jackson Lee referred to up, let them express their concerns, or others. You could bring anyone you want who supports this legislation. There is value in listening to people outside of the bully pulpit here in Washington. “I look at this and ask myself, how much in the bag with the National Rifle Association is this leadership in this House? This makes no sense, that you are going to impose the weakest standards that exist in some states on other states with higher standards when it comes to allowing individuals to conceal and carry weapons. “I look at the National Rifle Association webpage and Concealed carry reciprocity is the NRA's highest legislative priority in this Congress. So we all know why we're here today. Follow the money. This is about campaigning. This is about contributions to political parties and members of Congress who are worried about the next election. But this is not about what's in the best interest of the American people. “This bill we're taking up today would force states to let violent offenders, people with no firearm safety training, carry loaded hidden guns even if those people could not otherwise legally purchase a gun in the state. I mean, really? I don't get that. “As Mr. Nadler pointed out, under current law, each state determines if it will recognize conceal carry permits issued by other states. Currently, 11 states do not recognize concealed carry permits issued by other states. Most states only recognize concealed carry permits with equivalent standards. This is a rush to the bottom. I'm trying to understand why anybody would think this is a good idea. “The gentleman from Georgia tried to compare these to driver's licenses. Driver's licenses, as I understand them, are standard, verifiable documents with the same criteria nationwide. Concealed carry, there's no uniform standard security feature, no national - and sometimes no statewide - database. Driver's licenses require things like vision, and law, and in-person driving tests. “Concealed carry licenses, as we have learned, the training varies widely. And it isn't even always required by states. And yet, you're going to impose those low standards on my state? “Massachusetts has the lowest firearms death rate in the entire country. I'm proud of that. Don't screw around with what we have done in my state by trying to forcibly, through statute, lower the standards. This is just not right. “I could go on and on. You know what? This is a big waste of time. And I'm hoping the Senate won't even take it up. This is a terrible idea. It's about campaign contributions. This is not about good policy." ###
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) delivered the following speech on the House floor on the 43-mile Western Massachusetts walk he completed the week of Thanksgiving to help increase awareness in the fight against hunger. Joining Congressman McGovern on the walk were Congressmen Joe Kennedy (MA-04) and Richard Neal (MA-01) as well as a wide range of state and local leaders. Click here to view video of speech. “Last Monday and Tuesday I participated in the 8th annual Monte’s March – a 43 mile walk from Springfield to Greenfield, Massachusetts to raise awareness about hunger in our community and to raise money for the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. “This year, the march raised over $236,000 – a record! – to help struggling families in Western Massachusetts. This translates into about 708,000 meals that will go directly to individuals and families struggling with food insecurity. “As I am each year, I was deeply impressed by the stamina of all those who walked, and by the generosity of community members looking to help those in need. “I was so proud to join so many of my constituents and neighbors in Western Massachusetts to bring attention to the issue of hunger and raise much-needed funding for the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. “I’m so honored to be a part of this march each year, but need to remind my colleagues in this chamber that charities alone cannot end hunger. To do that will take further investments in our federally-funded programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Special Supplemental Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), and school meals. “In the United States of America, the richest country in the history of the world, it is a disgrace that any child goes to bed hungry – that any senior has to choose between lifesaving medication and a decent meal – that any veteran who risked his or her life in defense of our nation doesn’t have enough to eat – that any individual suffers from hunger. “But still, 42 million Americans remain food insecure. Food is a right, and it is up to this Congress to finally take a stand in supporting efforts to end hunger now.” Click here to view video of speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s speech: “Last Monday and Tuesday I participated in the 8th annual Monte’s March – a 43 mile walk from Springfield to Greenfield, Massachusetts to raise awareness about hunger in our community and to raise money for the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. “Monte Belmonte, a well-known and beloved local radio personality with WRSI, the River, led dozens of committed activists and community leaders on this walk. “This year, the march raised over $236,000 – a record! – to help struggling families in Western Massachusetts. This translates into about 708,000 meals that will go directly to individuals and families struggling with food insecurity. “As I am each year, I was deeply impressed by the stamina of all those who walked, and by the generosity of community members looking to help those in need. “I’d like to take a moment to thank those who joined us along the route for their dedication to the cause of ending hunger in this country once and for all. “Specifically, I want to thank – “Monte Belmonte and his entire crew from the River, including Mark Lattanzi, Dave Musante, and Rene Kane. They work incredibly hard each year to make this march a success, and it wouldn’t have been possible without their determination and the extra hours they put in leading up to this event. “Sean Barry of Four Seasons Liquor in Hadley – Monte’s right hand man marched the entire two days. “Andrew Moorehouse, Executive Director of the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, and everyone at the Food Bank. They do inspiring work. They deserve to be supported. “All of the elected officials who joined us, including: • my colleagues Reps. Joe Kennedy and Richard Neal • State Senator Eric Lesser and State Rep. Aaron Vega • Northampton Mayor David Narkewicz • Greenfield Mayor William Martin; and • Chicopee Mayor Richard Kos. The representatives of several local colleges: • Christina Royal, President of Holyoke Community College • My dear friend Bob Pura, President of Greenfield Community College; and • a special appearance by Sam the Minuteman, UMass’ beloved mascot. Incredible advocates from the non-profit community including: • Tim Garvin, Brian Whitney, and Kerry Conaghan of the United Way of Central Massachusetts. • Ronn Johnson, CEO of the Martin Luther King Jr. Family Services Inc. in Springfield • Andrea Marion, Executive Director of Lorraine’s Soup Kitchen in Chicopee • Shannon Rudder, Executive Director of Kate’s Kitchen in Holyoke • Betty Medina Lichtenstein, Founder & Executive Director of Enlace de Familias in Holyoke • Mindy Domb, Executive Director of the Amherst Survival Center; and • Neftali Duran, chef and food activist at Nuestras Raices in Holyoke The musicians who kept us entertained along the way: • The Expandable Brass Band • Double Edge Theatre; and • Hopkins Academy Band Western Massachusetts small businesses, including: • Bridgeside Grille, Magpie Pizza, Ashfield Lake House, Union Station in Northampton, and • Berkshire Brewing Company who kept us nourished along the way • Ben Clarkdale of Clarkdale Fruit Farms; and • The Tea Guys, for their wonderful tea in honor of the march, and for their continued generosity and friendship. “The Sheriff’s Departments in Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin Counties, as well as the Deerfield Police, for helping to provide escorts for us during all 43 miles. “Mr. Michael Brooks and the students at Smith Vocational School in Northampton for making the shopping carts we used during the march. “And I’m grateful to the countless students – elementary, middle, and high school – who raised money and greeted us along the way. “Members of the Tibetan community who greeted us, as well. “And all of the other incredible individuals from our community who joined us on the march like my dear friend Chia Collins, Steve “the Hippie” Fendell, Georgiann and Rick Kristek, Kristen Elechko, Erin McKeown and Emily Lichter from Ashfield Lake House, and so many others, as well as industry partners who helped support this effort through their generosity. “I’d also like to thank two of my wonderful district staffers – Keith Barnicle and Seth Nadeau – for their efforts in helping to organize the march and for assisting me every step of the way. “Lastly, I’d like to thank my son Patrick who marched with me by my side during this entire time. “I was so proud to join so many of my constituents and neighbors in Western Massachusetts to bring attention to the issue of hunger and raise much-needed funding for the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. “I’m so honored to be a part of this march each year, but need to remind my colleagues in this chamber that charities alone cannot end hunger. To do that will take further investments in our federally-funded programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the Special Supplemental Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), and school meals. “As we look toward the next Farm Bill, the next budget, and the upcoming appropriations cycle, I plead with my colleagues to maintain – and increase – investments in programs to help those struggling with food insecurity. Please don’t do anything to make hunger in this country worse. “In the United States of America, the richest country in the history of the world, it is a disgrace that any child goes to bed hungry – that any senior has to choose between lifesaving medication and a decent meal – that any veteran who risked his or her life in defense of our nation doesn’t have enough to eat – that any individual suffers from hunger. “But still, 42 million Americans remain food insecure. “Food is a right, and it is up to this Congress to finally take a stand in supporting efforts to end hunger now.” ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) slammed the latest anti-environment bill from House Republicans, H.R. 3905, The MINER Act, which would do irreparable harm to federally-protected land by allowing a foreign company to use a half-century-old lease to mine right next door to the Boundary Water Canoe Area Wilderness. Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. “H.R. 3905 would allow a Chilean mining company, which is facing tens of millions of dollars in fines from the Chilean government for their failure to protect nearby water resources, the ability to mine just upstream of pristine U.S. protected land. “My colleagues in the majority will claim that this bill will help create jobs, but what about the 22,000 jobs that the local protected land already supports? What will happen to those jobs when the water is so polluted no one can visit the recreational area around the mine? The truth is, this isn’t about jobs, it’s about helping a few rich owners of mining companies line their pockets at the expense of the environment. “In fact, the recipient of this Republican handout is a subsidiary of the Chilean company Antofagasta, which is controlled by Chilean billionaire Andronico Luksic. “And get this: Mr. Luksic just happens to be the landlord of Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner – President Trump’s daughter and son-in-law, and senior advisors to the Trump White House. “You cannot make this stuff up. “This is part of a pattern of sketchy deals and questionable business contacts involving the President, his family, and their closest advisors. “Earlier this month, we learned that President Trump and his family made millions through a hotel in Panama financed by Colombian drug cartels and the Russian mafia! “We still don’t even know how these new deals will boost President Trump’s income or how his family profits off the presidency – because we’re 312 days into his presidency, and we still haven’t seen his tax returns! “Worse yet, this bill makes these mining leases impossible to overturn – ever – even should the Bureau of Land Management conclude its environmental assessment and rule against further mining in this protected national forest. “This is a slippery slope. If we continue to allow corporations to pillage our federally protected wilderness areas, then we are opening the door to irreversible damage. What’s next? Clear-cutting in Yellowstone Forest? Oil drilling off the coast of Acadia National Park? “I beg my Republican friends to drop this assault on our public lands and urge the leadership of this House to bring up the urgent bills and priorities that we need to deal with before adjourning in less than three weeks’ time.” Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s speech Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “This rule brings to the floor legislation that will do irreparable harm to our federally-protected land by allowing a foreign company the ability to use a half-century-old lease to mine right next door to the Boundary Water Canoe Area Wilderness. “H.R. 3905 would allow a Chilean mining company, which is facing tens of millions of dollars in fines from the Chilean government for their failure to protect nearby water resources, the ability to mine just upstream of pristine U.S. protected land. “This is all based on a 50-year-old lease. A lease that didn’t go through any environmental review because NEPA didn’t exist yet! There are Members of this chamber who weren’t even born when this lease was signed. “My colleagues in the majority will claim that this bill will help create jobs, but what about the 22,000 jobs that the local protected land already supports? What will happen to those jobs when the water is so polluted no one can visit the recreational area around the mine? The truth is, this isn’t about jobs, it’s about helping a few rich owners of mining companies line their pockets at the expense of the environment. “In fact, the recipient of this Republican handout is a subsidiary of the Chilean company Antofagasta, which is controlled by Chilean billionaire Andronico Luksic. “And get this…Mr. Luksic just happens to be the landlord of Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner – President Trump’s daughter and son-in-law, and senior advisors to the Trump White House. “You cannot make this stuff up. “This is part of a pattern of sketchy deals and questionable business contacts involving the President, his family, and their closest advisors. “Earlier this month, we learned that President Trump and his family made millions through a hotel in Panama financed by Colombian drug cartels and the Russian mafia! “We still don’t even know how these new deals will boost President Trump’s income or how his family profits off the presidency – because we’re 312 days into his presidency, and we still haven’t seen his tax returns! “Imagine if this were Hillary Clinton. Imagine if this were Barack Obama. Imagine the screams on the other side of the aisle demanding transparency and an open process. But when it comes to covering up all these sketchy deals, on behalf of this president of the United States, silence. “President Trump promised to drain the swamp, but instead he’s created a cesspool. There are so many conflicts of interest; this administration is on a collision course with corruption. “We have only 6 legislative days left before the government runs out of money, but Speaker Ryan thinks another corporate handout – this time, to Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump’s landlord – is the most pressing issue that needs to be resolved in Congress this week? “If the Speaker wants some suggestions as to things we ought to focus on this week, I know Democrats in this chamber have a few. “Democrats think we should be debating a funding bill to avert the coming shut down on December 8th, when the temporary spending bill expires. “Democrats want to debate and pass the Dream Act, ending the turmoil this President has caused by upending the lives of 800,000 young immigrant DREAMers and their families. “Democrats want to extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program – known as CHIP – and Community Health Centers whose authorizations expired two months ago. “Democrats think we should debate Flood Insurance reauthorization which also expires on December 8th. “Democrats want to pass additional hurricane relief to help those who are still recovering from devastating hurricanes in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico. “Democrats want to address funding for the Vets Choice program – which is set to run out of money before the end of the year. “But instead, here we are considering yet another ridiculous, extreme anti-environment bill. “My friends on the other side of the aisle love talking about returning this country to the way it used to be. I’ve seen the “Make America Great Again” stickers on many of their cars. I can think of no pastime more important, more significant to our national heritage and identity, than our wilderness and protected areas. “My friends and colleagues who have spent time in the Boundary Waters tell me how stunning it is. They say it’s one of the most beautiful places in our country. And we’re going to risk polluting this national treasure with copper sulfide acid drainage running into the streams that feed the Boundary Waters? “Worse yet, this bill makes these mining leases impossible to overturn – ever – even should the Bureau of Land Management conclude its environmental assessment and rule against further mining in this protected national forest. “This is a slippery slope. If we continue to allow corporations to pillage our federally protected wilderness areas, then we are opening the door to irreversible damage. What’s next? Clear-cutting in Yellowstone Forest? Oil drilling off the coast of Acadia National Park? “I beg my Republican friends to drop this assault on our public lands and urge the leadership of this House to bring up the urgent bills and priorities that we need to deal with before adjourning in less than three weeks’ time. “I urge my colleagues to oppose this rule, and to oppose efforts that will further degrade our natural resources.” ###
11.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement in response to Bahrain’s decision to uphold the two-year prison sentence of Nabeel Rajab for his actions to call attention to the human rights abuses committed by the Bahraini government. “Today Bahrain doubled down on its unjust treatment of Nabeel Rajab, a brave human rights defender and my friend. A Bahraini court rejected an appeal by Nabeel Rajab of the two-year sentence imposed on him for the ‘crime’ of , a brave human rights defender and my friend, Nabeel Rajab have again failed to uphold the most basic standards of justice. “Last July a two-year prison sentence was imposed on Nabeel for the ‘crime’ of giving television interviews about the horrible human rights situation in his country. His trial was full of irregularities, like the fact that he was sentenced in absentia while hospitalized, and suffered months of solitary confinement, a form of torture. By the time the sentence is up he will actually have served two and a half years – and he faces another 15 years in separate cases for criticizing Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen and writing about allegations of torture in Jaw Prison. “Nabeel’s case is a textbook example of the misuse and manipulation of a judicial system for purely political ends. Bahrain simply cannot tolerate freedom of expression. “This court decision will not silence Nabeel, and it will not silence those of us in the international community who stand with him. All Bahrain has accomplished is to prove Nabeel right: the Bahraini government systematically violates its citizens’ most fundamental rights. Today’s decision proves his point.” ###
11.17.2017	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Next Monday, November 20th, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will kick off the 8th annual “Monte’s March,” a 43-mile two-day walk as part of his anti-hunger push in Western Massachusetts. Congressmen Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) will be among those joining the event. The march is aimed at helping to increase awareness about hunger in local communities and help Massachusetts families in need this thanksgiving. All proceeds will benefit The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. Last year, the event raised more than $200,000. “Thanksgiving is about more than just being thankful,” Congressman McGovern said. “It’s about bringing families, friends, and communities together to help those who are in need. I’m so grateful that here in the Pioneer Valley, we know the importance of helping our neighbors. Hunger is something that touches too many families across the Commonwealth, but working together, we can help ensure that no family goes hungry this holiday season.” Joining Congressman McGovern for the full 43 miles will be the founder of Monte’s March, WRSI The River radio host Monte Belmonte, as well as Andrew Morehouse, the Executive Director of The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. This year’s hunger walk will start on Monday at 7 a.m. at the Martin Luther King Jr. Community in Springfield, and end on Tuesday in Greenfield. The march will be carried live on 93.9 The River. More information can be found by clicking here. WHAT: Monte’s March, a 43-mile anti-hunger march across Western Massachusetts WHEN: Monday, 11/21 and Tuesday, 11/22 WHERE: The march will cover 43 miles throughout Hampden, Hampshire, and Franklin Counties. Detailed information is below: SCHEDULE: Monday, 11/1: March begins at 7:00 a.m. at Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center, 3 Rutland Street, Springfield, MA and will travel 17 miles to Northampton, MA. Tuesday, 11/2: March begins at 6:00 a.m. at WRSI studios, 15 Hampton Ave, Northampton, MA and will travel 26 miles to Bank Row in Greenfield, MA
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) condemned House Republicans for their devastating tax plan, which eliminates a key deduction for seniors and families with long-term medical needs, as well as families with severely disabled children. According to an analysis from AARP, 193,544 Massachusetts families will lose a deduction worth on average $11,053 under the House GOP bill – all just to hand deficit-exploding, multi-trillion giveaways to the wealthy and corporations that ship jobs overseas. Nationwide, nearly 9 million Americans claim the medical expense deduction. Altogether, the House GOP bill raises taxes on 36 million middle class families nationwide, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. “Americans are sick and tired of a Republican Congress that cares more about taking healthcare away and giving tax cuts to the rich. The Republican tax plan’s destruction of the medical expense deduction is just the latest example of how their agenda will hurt Massachusetts families,” Rep. McGovern said. “Countless families with serious medical needs and parents of children with disabilities will no longer be able to afford the life-saving care they need. Seniors who have worked so hard to save for retirement will now see long-term care facilities yanked out of reach. This is absolutely shameful. I will stand up for Massachusetts families and fight this cruel Republican tax plan which would hurt so many in our state.” ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) expressed his outrage that Senate Republicans removed a provision in the Fiscal Year 18 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would create the Atomic Veterans Service Medal honoring more than 200,000 American veterans. Congressman McGovern is a co-author of the bipartisan provision to recognize the service of these veterans who were exposed to dangerous levels of radiation while conducting nuclear weapons tests between 1945 and 1962. Congressman McGovern has called on President Trump to right this wrong by issuing an executive order to create the medal honoring these veterans. In July 2017, the House unanimously approved Congressman McGovern’s amendment to create the Service Medal by a vote of 424-0. Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) is the author of an amendment to include the service medal in the Senate version of the NDAA. With the provision being dropped from the Conference Report, this is the third consecutive year that Senate Republicans leaders have prevented these veterans from being honored. “I am outraged that for the third consecutive year, an amendment to create a service medal for our Atomic Veterans has been dropped from the NDAA Conference Report. I find this particularly shocking as this amendment, which I offered with my Republican colleague, Congressman Tom Emmer (R-MN), was approved by the House unanimously by a vote of 424-0,” Congressman McGovern said. “The Pentagon remains silent on honoring the service of our Atomic Veterans, arguing that to do so would diminish the service of other military personnel who are tasked with dangerous missions. This is a pitiful excuse. I hope we can convince the Senate or the Pentagon to finally do the right thing, before it’s too late. More than 75 percent of Atomic Veterans have already passed away, never having received this recognition. We owe it to our veterans to honor them for their selfless service to our nation.” “While we will never be able to fully repay their sacrifices for our nation, the simple act of recognizing the hundreds of thousands of our Atomic Vets is well past due,” Senator Markey said. “I am incredibly disappointed that the NDAA Conference Committee chose to disregard the overwhelming, bipartisan support in Congress to finally do what is right and recognize the dedication of these brave servicemembers. We will continue fighting to ensure that the brave men and women who were exposed to radiation in the line of duty are properly honored.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Statement is Below: “I thank the Ranking Member for yielding. I am outraged that for the third consecutive year, an amendment to create a service medal for our Atomic Veterans has been dropped from the NDAA Conference Report. I find this particularly shocking as this amendment, which I offered with my Republican colleague, Congressman Tom Emmer, was approved by the House unanimously by a vote of 424-0. “It is unclear to me why our colleagues in the Senate are determined to deprive our Atomic Veterans this most basic recognition of their honorable service. “Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. These GIs were placed in extremely dangerous areas and were constantly exposed to potentially dangerous levels of radiation in performance of their duties. They were sworn to secrecy, unable to even talk to their doctors about their past exposure to radiation. “Thankfully, Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush recognized the Atomic Veterans’ valiant service, and acted to provide specialized care and compensation for their harrowing duty. “In 2007, our allies Great Britain, New Zealand and Australia enacted their versions of this amendment by authorizing a medal to honor their Atomic Veterans who served with the United States. “Regrettably, the Pentagon remains silent on honoring the service of our Atomic Veterans, arguing that to do so would diminish the service of other military personnel who are tasked with dangerous missions. M. Speaker, this is a pitiful excuse. “Tragically, more than 75 percent of Atomic Veterans have already passed away, never having received this recognition. They served honorably and kept a code of silence that most certainly led to many of these veterans passing away prematurely. “Past administrations and Congresses have dealt with the thornier issues of legality and compensation. What remains is recognizing these veterans’ duty, honor and faithful service to our nation. And time is running out. “I thank my colleagues here in the House for supporting this amendment. With your continued support, I hope we can convince the Senate or the Pentagon to finally do the right thing, before it’s too late. We owe it to our veterans to honor them for their selfless service to our nation.” ###
11.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, delivered the following speech on the House floor condemning Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen, the suffering it is causing among innocent civilians, and urging the United States to end its support of the war. Click here to view video of speech online. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “I thank the gentleman from California for yielding me time and for his leadership to bring before this House the critical issue of U.S. policy towards Yemen. Most importantly, I want to thank the gentleman for his determination to provide this House with at least 30 minutes to debate the complicity of the United States – through its support of the Saudi-led forces in the civil war in Yemen – in one of the greatest humanitarian crises taking place on the planet. “The House should be considering Mr. Khanna’s original resolution, H. Con. Res. 81. Republican leaders made that impossible by threatening to put forward a rule that would have blocked the right of Congressman Khanna to ever call his privileged resolution up for debate. “According to the United Nations, Yemen is suffering the fastest-growing cholera epidemic ever recorded. At the same time, Yemen faces the world’s biggest food emergency. “Saudi Arabia has blockaded Yemen’s ports and airports. Just last week, it sealed the country’s borders. As a result, the people of Yemen have been cut off from nearly all humanitarian aid during this horrific famine and cholera epidemic, and the ability of humanitarian agencies to provide relief has been significantly impeded. “The U.N. has called the Saudi closure of Yemen’s borders to aid deliveries “catastrophic.” Even the International Committee of the Red Cross was forbidden to cross the northern border with a delivery of chlorine tablets to prevent cholera. “We learned today from the Saudis that two smaller southern ports and one Red Sea port will open “soon” – although we don’t know what that means. But the main port where over 80 percent of Yemen’s food supplies enter will remain blockaded and closed. “It is well-documented that the Saudi-led coalition – and Saudi forces in particular – have carried out a ruthless, brutal bombing campaign that deliberately targets hospitals, schools, food markets, and the civilian population, including children. “The World Food Program has warned that hundreds of thousands of children will be “on the brink of starvation” if the blockade lasts for even two weeks. That deadline of death and starvation will arrive next Tuesday, just two days before we here in the United States sit down to enjoy Thanksgiving with family, friends and loved ones. Will the Members of this House spare a thought for the children, mothers and fathers of Yemen as we sit and feast in the warmth and comfort of our own homes? “Or will this Congress finally, after more than 2½ years of sheer horror, send a clear message to Saudi Arabia that its actions are intolerable? “Saudi Arabia’s actions thus far and the coalition it leads in the Yemen civil war may very well rise to the level of war crimes and crimes against humanity, according to the United Nations. “It is past time for this House to clearly and unambiguously declare that the United States will no longer provide or sell military aid, equipment and munitions to potential war criminals. “That the United States will no longer supply mid-air refueling to Saudi and coalition bombers headed to Yemen to wreak havoc on the suffering Yemeni people. “That the U.S. will no longer share intelligence with the Saudi coalition. “And that we will no longer remain a complicit and passive partner in carrying out one of the world’s greatest humanitarian crises. “I know the Houthi rebels attempting to take power in Yemen are also guilty of war crimes. Last November, the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission held a hearing on the human rights and humanitarian crisis in Yemen, so I know full well the atrocities committed by all parties in this war. “Yemen is just one more proxy in the regional religious and political struggle for dominance between Sunni Saudi Arabia and Shi’ite Iran. For some in Congress, that power struggle trumps every other consideration. For me, it is yet another reason to act with extreme caution and examine whether and how we allow ourselves to support potential war criminals in pursuit of consolidating their own regional agenda and power. “I’m also concerned that this power struggle is escalating further throughout the region. Rather than U.S. policy working to cool things down, we seem to be encouraging it to heat up. “I, for one, do not want the United States to be complicit in supporting the killing and maiming of children. “I do not want the United States to be complicit in the deliberate targeting and attacks against schools, hospitals, markets and homes. “I do not want the United States to be complicit in bombing water treatment plants at any time, let alone in the middle of the worse cholera epidemic in the world. “And I do not want the United States to be complicit in supporting a blockade that condemns tens of thousands of children to famine and death by starvation. “Once again, I thank Congressman Ro Khanna and other members like Congressman Ted Lieu for their leadership on this important issue.” ###
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat, led debate on the House floor against the rule for two House Republican bills – H.R. 3043, the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017 and H.R. 3441, the Save Local Business Act. Congressman McGovern. During the debate, Congressman McGovern slammed Speaker Ryan for his failure to support the fair and open legislative process he promised when he began as Speaker of the House two years ago. Speaker Ryan has routinely shut out both Democrats and rank-and-file Republicans from debates on bills taken up by the House, regularly refusing to even consider their amendments. With today’s 49th closed rule of the 115th Congress, House Republicans have now broken their own record for the most closed session of Congress in history. Click here to view video of speech. “Today we are considering the 49th completely closed rule of the 115th Congress. Today House Republicans are breaking their own record for the most closed session of Congress in history! “It’s astounding. This is something you would celebrate in Putin’s Russia, not here in the United States. “Since he first took the gavel in 2015, Speaker Ryan has continued to shamelessly break his promise to allow a fair and open legislative process in the House. “With each new closed rule they bring to the floor – shutting out amendments from both Democrats and Republicans, the cynical hypocrisy grows louder and louder. Instead of the people’s House, this has sadly become “only the people who agree with Paul Ryan’s House. “I guess my question for the Speaker would be: Did you mean any of what you said? Did you forget all those promises you made? Or did you have absolutely no intention of keeping those promises once you were in power? “Every single member of the House of Representatives was elected to represent the people of their district. But we cannot do that if the party in the majority blatantly uses strong-arm tactics like these that prevent us from doing our jobs. “And today, when asked by a reporter about this record-breaking closed process, Speaker Ryan responded, ‘Absolutely we have an open process.’ “Really? Let’s review his record this Congress. Zero open Rules. 49 completely closed Rules. “Open process? Open process my foot. “I guess in the age of Donald Trump words simply don’t matter anymore. Black is white. Up is down. Open is closed. And politicians can say whatever they think sounds good and think they can get away with it – facts be damned. “If Speaker Ryan was serious about a fair and open process, he would not turn this House into a rubber stamp for Donald Trump. He would let us be the independent voice the people of our districts elected us to be. He would not routinely shut out the voices of Democrats AND Republicans. He would let this House actually debate the serious legislation and issues that come before us. “With one closed rule after another on each bill that comes to the floor, Speaker Ryan has completely shut out both Democrats and rank-and-file Republicans – routinely blocking amendments we offer. “This is not how Congress is supposed to work. “Our constituents deserve a Congress that actually debates the bills that will affect their lives. They deserve better and I refuse to sit by while the Republican leadership makes a mockery of this House. Americans’ voices will not be silenced.” Click here to view video of speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech: “I rise in strong opposition to this rule, which provides for consideration of two deeply flawed pieces of legislation. “HR 3043, the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017, is yet another attempt by this Republican majority to prioritize corporate profits over ensuring people have access to safe and clean drinking water. “This bill would not only threaten our clean water, it would also undermine states’ rights and tribal rights by prioritizing power generation above all else when deciding whether to grant or extend a license to operate a hydropower plant. “Simply put, this bill puts profits ahead of the public interest. By giving a rubber stamp commission more power than other expert agencies, the bill rigs the process in favor of power producers at the expense of states, tribes, and our environment. “This bill prioritizes profits over clean water and healthy fisheries and should be strongly defeated. Protecting our families and our environment should always be our first priority. “In another giveaway to corporate interests, House Republicans are also bringing to the floor this week HR 3441, the so-called Save Local Business Act, under the false claim that it eliminates uncertainty for workers and protects small businesses. “The truth is a very different story. Joint employment standards ensure workers can hold employers accountable for violating wage and hour laws, child labor, or refusing to collectively bargain. This bill represents a significant and dangerous break from that standard and would undermine the rights of American workers. “This legislation rewards companies that rent employees from staffing agencies instead of hiring them directly, and allows them to evade responsibility for upholding the rights of those employees, even though they profit from their work. “This bill is not about helping workers or small businesses. This is all about giving powerful companies even more power over their employees. “What’s just as troubling as the content of the underlying bills is the process Speaker Ryan and his Republican leadership team routinely use to call up this terrible legislation. “Today we are considering the 49th completely closed rule of the 115th Congress. That’s right; today House Republicans are breaking their own record for the most closed session of Congress in history! “It’s astounding. This is something you would celebrate in Putin’s Russia, not here in the United States. “Since he first took the gavel in 2015, Speaker Ryan has continued to shamelessly break his promise to allow a fair and open legislative process in the House. “In Paul Ryan’s first speech as Speaker in October 2015, he said: “We need to let every member contribute…Open up the process. Let people participate…A neglected minority will gum up the works. A respected minority will work in good faith. Instead of trying to stop the majority, they might try to become the majority.” “Speaker Ryan and I disagree on a great many issues, but I strongly agree with what he said in that 2015 speech. We do need to let every member contribute and open up the process here in the House. We do need the majority party to respect the minority party so we can actually work together on bipartisan solutions. “But in the two years since Speaker Ryan took the gavel, he has sadly failed to deliver on his commitment to open up the legislative process. Things have only gotten worse. “In fact, Speaker Ryan is the only speaker who has not allowed a truly open rule to give Members the opportunity and the chance to do what their constituents sent them here to do: offer different perspective and ideas on how to improve legislation. “With each new closed rule they bring to the floor – shutting out amendments from both Democrats and Republicans, the cynical hypocrisy grows louder and louder. “Instead of the people’s House, this has sadly become “only the people who agree with Paul Ryan’s House.” “I guess my question for the Speaker would be: Did you mean any of what you said? Did you forget all those promises you made? Or did you have absolutely no intention of keeping those promises once you were in power? “Every single member of the House of Representatives was elected to represent the people of their district. But we cannot do that if the party in the majority blatantly uses strong-arm tactics like these that prevent us from doing our jobs. “In 2015, Speaker Ryan also said: “We need to return to regular order. We are the body closest to the people. Every two years, we face the voters…We represent them. We are supposed to study up and do the homework that they cannot do. So when we do not follow regular order—when we rush to pass bills a lot of us do not understand—we are not doing our job. Only a fully functioning House can truly represent the people.” “Where do I begin?! Literally just a few months ago Speaker Ryan and the Republican leaders of this House were recklessly steamrolling their healthcare bill to the House floor without holding anything close to the number of hearings we held when the Affordable Care Act was passed. “Instead they led a haphazard process where the bill was drafted in secret behind locked doors without any input from rank-and-file members of Congress or the American people. M. Speaker, that is not regular order. That is unconscionable. That disrespects this House. “And today, when asked by a reporter about this record-breaking closed process, Speaker Ryan responded, QUOTE “Absolutely we have an open process.” END QUOTE “Really? “Let’s review his record this Congress. Zero open Rules. 49 completely closed Rules. “Open process? Open process my foot. “I guess in the age of Donald Trump words simply don’t matter anymore. Black is white. Up is down. Open is closed. And politicians can say whatever they think sounds good and think they can get away with it – facts be damned. “If Speaker Ryan was serious about a fair and open process, he would not turn this House into a rubber stamp for Donald Trump. He would let us be the independent voice the people of our districts elected us to be. He would not routinely shut out the voices of Democrats AND Republicans. He would let this House actually debate the serious legislation and issues that come before us. “With one closed rule after another on each bill that comes to the floor, Speaker Ryan has completely shut out both Democrats and rank-and-file Republicans – routinely blocking amendments we offer. “This is not how Congress is supposed to work. “Our constituents deserve a Congress that actually debates the bills that will affect their lives. They deserve better and I refuse to sit by while the Republican leadership makes a mockery of this House. Americans’ voices will not be silenced. “You know, the Speaker made grand promises of openness, inclusiveness, and regular order. But we just lived through the most closed year in the history of this institution – and the year isn’t even over yet. “Republicans ought to remember that they will not always be in the majority. I don’t think a Democratic Majority could be this bad on basic process even if we tried. “But any Member who votes for this record-breaking closed Rule today had better not have crocodile tears for regular order, and openness, when they find themselves in the minority someday in the future – anyone who supports 49 closed rules and zero open rules in a single year loses all credibility on the issue of openness. “My Republican friends should be ashamed; ashamed of diminishing this House and diminishing its Members and their thoughtful ideas. I urge Democrats and I urge Republicans to take a stand and to vote no on this closed rule.” ###
11.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on U.S. foreign policy on Central America, released the following statement condemning the move by President Trump, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, and the State Department to end Temporary Protected Status for more than 250,000 immigrants from El Salvador and Honduras who came to the United States seeking safety. "The recommendation by Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and the State Department to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for over 250,000 Salvadorans and Hondurans residing in the U.S., as reported today in the Washington Post, reeks of politics triumphing over well-documented fact. The State Department and our embassies in these countries know full well that El Salvador and Honduras are two of the most violent and dangerous countries in the world. They also know that these countries do not have the ability to absorb or protect tens of thousands of returnees, especially given the daunting economic and security challenges confronting these nations. A recent report by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops describes the situation on the ground in detail, and recommended that TPS be extended for Salvadorans and Hondurans. "In September, I led a bipartisan letter signed by 116 Members of Congress asking that TPS for El Salvador and Honduras be extended. In addition, a letter from leading Republicans asked for the same. These immigrants, who have had legal status and protection in the United States for nearly 20 years deserve better. The conditions in their countries remain precarious, as any rational, objective study would conclude. I call upon Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke to rise above politics and to do the right thing by extending TPS for El Salvador and Honduras. "Secretary Tillerson and all those at the State Department who participated in this farce of an assessment should be ashamed.” Congressman McGovern also supports extending TPS for Haitians and Nicaraguans, which the State Department assessment also called for terminating. The Department of Homeland Security nust announce a decision regarding TPS for Honduras by Monday, November 6th, and for El Salvador no later than January 8, 2018.
10.30.2017	LEOMINSTER, MA – Today, October 30th, Congressmen Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) will visit Leominster to celebrate new federal funding and speak to students on the importance of public service. WHAT: Reps. McGovern, Kennedy Speak to Senior Class on Public Service WHERE: Leominster High School, 122 Granit Street, Leominster WHEN: Today, October 30, 2017 at 1:30PM – 2:10PM Reps. McGovern and Kennedy will join Leominster High School leaders in addressing the senior class about their work in Congress to advocate for Massachusetts families, the importance of public service, and how each student can make a difference in their communities. WHAT: Reps. McGovern, Kennedy Tour Sky View Middle School, Applaud New Funding WHERE: Sky View Middle School, 500 Kennedy Way, Leominster WHEN: Today, October 30, 2017 at 2:30PM – 3:00PM Leominster Public Schools was recently awarded a new 21st Century Grant for FY18-FY20 of $375,000 (with $125,000 distributed each year) for Sky View Middle School to run an afterschool program and a 5-week summer program. Reps. McGovern and Kennedy will speak about the importance of these programs. The new funding is designed to help close proficiency/opportunity gaps, increase student engagement, support social and emotional learning, and promote college and career readiness and success for high-need students. Students are provided with snacks, homework help, academic enrichments (activities targeted towards minimizing those achievement gaps), and transportation home at no cost to the family. Currently 40 students in grades 6th-8th participate. ###
10.26.2017	WORCESTER, MA – On Friday, October 27th at 10:15am, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) will kick off his first-ever small business tour of Central and Western Massachusetts to highlight the growth and success of local craft breweries across the region. Participants: Joining Congressman McGovern on the tour will be local brewers and beer distributors as well as leaders and representatives from local chambers of commerce, regional tourism councils, Trip Advisor, Yelp, AAA, Craft Brewery Association, and Western MA Beer Week. Congressman McGovern will discuss his work support craft brewers, the role they play in growing our economy, and his work to pass the bipartisan H.R. 747, the Promote Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax Reform Act of 2017. This bipartisan bill would reduce the federal excise tax to $3.50 per barrel on the first 60,000 barrels for domestic brewers producing fewer than 2 million barrels annually. It would also reduce the amount domestic brewers pay from 60,001‐2 million to $16 per barrel or reduce the federal excise tax to $16 per barrel on the first 6 million barrels for all other brewers and all beer importers. SMALL BUSINESS: MA CRAFT BREWERY TOUR SCHEDULE: 10:15AM – 11:00AM – Tour of Valley Malt, 4 Cemetery Rd., Hadley 11:30AM – 12:15PM – Tour of Berkshire Brewing Co., 12 Railroad St., South Deerfield 12:45PM – 1:30PM – Tour of Honest Weight Brewery, 131 West Main St., Orange 2:00PM – 3:15PM – Roundtable/Lunch at Stone Cow Brewery, 500 West Street, Barre 3:45PM – 4:30PM – Tour of Wormtown Brewery, 72 Shrewsbury St., Worcester 5:00PM – 5:45PM – Tour of Kretschmann Brewing Co., 9 Frederick St., Webster MASSACHUSETTS CRAFT BREWERY STATISTICS: $1.83 Billion in Economic Impact (Ranked 14th in U.S.) 16,220 jobs with average $49,008 salary per employee supported by craft breweries 110 Craft Breweries in Massachusetts (Ranked 17th State in U.S.) 2.2 Breweries Per Capita 611,341 Barrels of Craft Beer Produced per Year (Ranked 12th in U.S.) Sources: Brewers Association, Economic Impact ###
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and second-highest-ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, led the floor debate against the House Republican FY 2018 Budget set for a vote this week. Click here to view video of today’s speech.. “Today, House Republicans are pushing a job-killing budget so they can use fast-track ‘reconciliation’ procedures to steamroll through their billionaires-first tax plan. We ought to have a budget that helps the millions of Americans who sent us here, not a budget that helps only the well-connected and the well-off. “What’s particularly astonishing is the blatant hypocrisy of Republican leaders pushing this deficit-busting budget. Republicans are always telling us how much they care about the deficit, but when it comes to giving their beloved tax cuts to their billionaire friends, they suddenly develop a convenient case of amnesia. They say, ‘what deficit?’ ‘Don’t worry, these tax breaks will pay for themselves’ This is absurd. “In this Republican-controlled Congress, we can now say with certainty that the deficit and debt no longer matter. All the talk by Republicans? They didn’t really mean it. If Republicans really cared about the deficit, they wouldn’t bring a budget as reckless as this to the floor. This shows what they truly believe. Where their values are. “How many times have Republicans talked about the importance of a balanced budget? Let me spell this out for my Republican friends: This is not a balanced budget. Clearly Republicans desperately need a refresher on basic arithmetic. “There is absolutely nothing balanced about hitting middle class families and millions of hardworking Americans with cuts while giving billionaires and corporations tax cuts they simply do not need. This is disgusting. This is shameful. “In all my time in Congress, I have never seen a budget and a tax plan that harms so many just to benefit so few. NUMBERS • Individuals making $900,000+ a year would receive average tax cut of more than $200,000 • A person working full time at minimum wage makes $290 a week before taxes • Under this plan, people who make over $432 an hour – $900,000 a year – get a massive tax cut • Corporations will receive a tax cut totaling $2 trillion dollars • 1 in 3 middle class taxpayers earning $50,000 to $150,000 would receive tax increase • Nearly 50% of middle class families with kids will see their taxes go up Source: Tax Policy Center Click here to view video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech Below: “Today, House Republicans are pushing a job-killing budget so they can use fast-track ‘reconciliation’ procedures to steamroll through their billionaires-first tax plan. We are supposed to be ‘the people’s house.’ We ought to have a people’s budget. A budget that helps the millions of Americans who sent us here to Congress, not a budget that helps only a few, the well-connected and the well off. “This is a terrible budget. This budget will devastate America’s investments in good-paying jobs. It threatens growing wages and the bedrock promise of a secure and healthy retirement. It makes cuts across the board that would hurt seniors, children, veterans, and the hard-working people across the country who are already struggling to get by. “Why are Republicans doing this? All in the name of fast-tracking the Ryan-McConnell tax plan which explodes the deficit by 1.5 trillion dollars and then provides multi-trillion dollar tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans. We Democrats think this is a horrible idea. “What’s particularly astonishing is the blatant hypocrisy of Republican leaders pushing this deficit-busting budget. Republicans are always telling us how much they care about the deficit, but when it comes to giving their beloved tax cuts to their billionaire friends, they suddenly develop a convenient case of amnesia. They say, ‘what deficit?’ ‘Don’t worry, these tax breaks will pay for themselves’ This is absurd. “In this Republican-controlled Congress, we can now say with certainty that the deficit and debt no longer matter. All the talk by Republicans? They didn’t really mean it. If Republicans really cared about the deficit, they wouldn’t bring a budget as reckless as this to the floor. This shows what they truly believe. Where their values are. Where their priorities are. “How many times have Republicans talked about the importance of a balanced budget? The Speaker called for a deficit neutral tax plan in his “Better Way Agenda.” I guess this debt-creating budget is the “Somewhat Less Better Way Plan.” “Your Budget Chair took to Twitter just two weeks ago to chastise Senate Republicans for not pursuing a balanced budget, yet now she is fully in support of their budget which adds $1.5 trillion to the deficit with no way to pay for it. “Let me spell this out for my Republican friends: This is not a balanced budget. Clearly Republicans desperately need a refresher on basic arithmetic. “There is absolutely nothing balanced about hitting middle class families and millions of hardworking Americans with cuts while giving billionaires and corporations tax cuts they simply do not need. Billionaires aren’t knocking down our door asking for more tax breaks. This is disgusting. This is shameful. “This Republican budget destroys middle class jobs by stealing hundreds of billions of dollars from investments in infrastructure, job training, advanced energy, and research and development. It devastates Medicare and Medicaid. It demands deep cuts to safety-net programs like SNAP – I am talking about food for hungry children and hard working families. It makes college more expensive for working families. And it undercuts key supports for veterans and their families “What is particularly offensive is that Republicans are using this terrible budget as a means of passing tax cuts for the wealthy as quickly as possible, regardless of the consequences and without bipartisan support. “The tax reform framework supported by Republicans in Congress will raise taxes on the middle class and cut taxes for the wealthy. Under the Republican plan, the top 1 percent would receive 80 percent of all tax benefits. Give me a break. “Those making more than $900,000 a year would receive an average tax cut of more than $200,000. Think about that. A person working full time at minimum wage makes $290 a week before taxes. And under this plan, people who make over $432 an hour – $900,000 a year – get a massive tax cut. Corporations will receive a tax cut totaling $2 trillion dollars! “Who loses with this plan? According to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, one in three middle class taxpayers earning between $50,000 and $150,000 would actually receive a tax increase and nearly half of middle class families with kids will see their taxes go up! “Can you believe that? Raising taxes on the middle class to pay for tax cuts for billionaires and corporations. This is insane. “To make matters worse, Republicans are planning to steamroll their tax plan through Congress. We’re reading in the press we might see actual text of their plan next week, with maybe a mark-up and floor consideration a week or two after that. “Really? “Don’t you think we owe it to our constituents to have a thoughtful, open debate on this legislation, which will impact every single one of them? “I guess not. “Democrats agree that our tax system needs to be updated, to be more fair, especially to be more fair to the middle class and working families. We have always been willing to engage in real bipartisan tax reform. But the Republican tax framework is not tax reform, it’s just one more GOP multi-trillion dollar giveaway to the wealthiest at the expense of the middle class and working Americans. “In all my time in Congress, I have never seen a budget and a tax plan that harms so many just to benefit so few. “I urge my colleagues to vote against this rule, to vote against this cruel Republican budget, and to oppose a tax plan that puts wealthy corporations and the top 1% ahead of hardworking middle-class families.” ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on nuclear non-proliferation, released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Trump Administration will decertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, known as the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “President Trump’s decision to decertify the Iran Deal represents an all-time high in recklessness and stupidity. Every week the president’s Twitter tantrums put the world on edge. Decertifying the Iran Deal will add to this volatility by sending a chilling message across the globe that the United States is abandoning our leadership and our commitments on nuclear non-proliferation. “With clear consensus by experts that the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action remains the best way to prevent Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, President Trump’s failure to certify the agreement is dangerous and alarming. Ehud Barak, the former prime minister and defense minister of Israel and a strong critic of Iran, is among a growing group of world leaders who said it would be a mistake for President Trump to decertify the deal. “We must be clear: The Iran Deal is working and making us safer. It set up the toughest international monitoring regime ever enacted. And thanks to the agreement, all of Iran’s potential pathways to obtaining nuclear weapons remain blocked. Walking away from the agreement would cripple America’s credibility on the world stage and endanger any prospects for negotiating with North Korea or other countries. And let me also be perfectly clear, despite what President Trump and Secretary Tillerson appear to assert, Congress cannot unilaterally change the terms of the JCPOA. “President Trump decertifying the Iran Deal, as well as adding other poorly-conceived unilateral sanctions and conditions against Iran, would put America’s national security at risk and the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran back on the table. Americans deserve better from their leaders. I urge President Trump to reconsider this dangerous move and put the safety of the American people first by reversing this terrible decision.” ###
10.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and the co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Foundation, released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s decision to provides permanent sanctions relief to Sudan. In July 2017, McGovern led a bipartisan group of more than 50 lawmakers calling on President Trump not to provide sanctions relief to Sudan. Click here to read the letter. “I am deeply disappointed and opposed to the Trump Administration’s decision to provide permanent sanctions relief to the Government of Sudan, whose president and other high officials have been internationally indicted for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. “I believe the so-called progress cited has been minimal, especially in the area of full, unrestricted delivery of humanitarian aid to all regions of Sudan. Further, this announcement legitimizes the murderous actions of the Sudanese government and military, coming so close on the heels of Sudanese security forces firing at unarmed protesters at the Kalma refugee camp in South Darfur on September 22nd, killing at least 6 and wounding 28 others, along with other attacks against civilians over the past three weeks. “President Trump and President Bashir should understand that much more progress is required and any back-sliding will likely result in Congress reinstating sanctions. More importantly, as the U.S. now engages with Sudan, our policy must emphasize greater respect for human rights including religious freedom, political inclusion, an end to corruption, and genuine negotiations with all armed actors to achieve a just and lasting peace. No additional sanctions should be lifted or waived until these priorities are achieved, and I intend to introduce legislation later this month aimed at putting such a policy in place.” ###
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on U.S.-Cuba relations, released the following statement regarding Secretary Tillerson’s recent meeting with Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla and the decision to withdraw all non-essential personnel from the U.S. Embassy in Havana and issue a travel advisory warning Americans not to travel to Cuba: “Keeping our American diplomats safe and secure must always be our first priority. I strongly support U.S. and Cuban efforts to determine who is responsible for the harmful sonar attacks and ensure they are held accountable. “Today’s announcement and indefinite suspension of visa processing and consular services by the Trump Administration, however, is a dramatic overreaction and the latest example of a White House with a stunning ignorance on how to best conduct foreign policy. This would make it even harder for Cuban and American families to travel and visit loved ones. “It is essential that the State Department immediately develop practical contingency plans to continue to allow families to travel from Cuba. Americans with family and loved ones in Cuba should not be forced to face such unnecessary barriers, especially when so many are still recovering from the devastating hurricanes that have hit the region. “Americans cannot afford a return to the failed Cold War isolationist policies that divided families for 50 years. Hundreds of thousands of Americans visit Cuba every year. Our businesses are engaged in agricultural sales and other business opportunities. U.S. and Cuban agencies engage in cooperation on drug trafficking, human smuggling, search and rescue operations, and other security issues. An Embassy presence is vital to maintaining those relationships. “Any move to sever or diminish diplomatic ties or travel would be a dangerous step backward that would jeopardize the progress our countries have made. Americans need strong leadership, but the Trump administration seems more interested in abandoning diplomacy when we need it most. Our nations must work together to ensure the safety of American personnel without dividing families.” Congressman McGovern is a senior member of the bipartisan Congressional Cuba Working Group. Click here to read the statement issued by the group. ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - In honor of the 40th anniversary of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), co-chairs of the bipartisan House Hunger Caucus, released the following statement calling on their fellow members of Congress to renew the bipartisan commitment to strengthen the country's anti-hunger safety net and end hunger once and for all : "This Friday marks the 40th anniversary of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, bipartisan legislation that expanded the reach of the food stamp program and made it more effective and efficient. "Severe hunger and malnutrition plagued our country in the 1960s. Senator George McGovern, a Democrat from South Dakota, and Senator Bob Dole, a Republican from Kansas, recognized the need to address this crisis, and for over a decade led the bipartisan Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs. "Out of this work came the Food Stamp Act of 1977, which established national standards of eligibility for the program and eliminated the requirement that recipients pay for their stamps. It was revolutionary, and helped to dramatically reduce extreme poverty and severe hunger in the United States. "During the past 40 years, Congress has worked to further strengthen the program. We’ve modernized benefit processing, improved access to fresh produce, and updated benefit calculations to help military families and those with young children. And in 2008, we renamed the program SNAP – the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. "The modern SNAP program provides millions of children, seniors, and other working adults with food assistance each year. It improves health, educational, and economic outcomes for its recipients. When families are able to put food on the table and provide for their children, they are able to lift themselves out of poverty and off of government assistance. "Just as Senators Dole and McGovern came together to fight hunger and poverty in the 1960s and 70s, we must renew this bipartisan commitment to strengthening our anti-hunger safety net and ending hunger once and for all. "Please join us as we honor the incredible work of Senators Dole and McGovern and celebrate the impact this bipartisan legislation has had on reducing hunger in the United States." ###
09.28.2017	Hurricane Maria Response and Recovery Update September 28, 2017 The top priority of the federal government is continuing to provide life safety and life sustaining resources to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. FEMA and its federal partners continue 24-hour operations to reach inaccessible areas of Puerto Rico to reach survivors, provide fuel to hospitals, and re-open. Roosevelt Roads is open to receive flights in addition to Aguadilla, freeing runways at the San Juan airport for commercial traffic. FEMA Urban Search and Rescue, the Department of Health and Human Services, Commonwealth officials, and the National Guard have reached and are servicing all municipalities in Puerto Rico. While significant progress is being made in the response to Hurricane Maria, recovery for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands will be long and frustrating, and will require the help of the whole community. The federal government’s full attention is on the Hurricane Maria response. Well before it made landfall in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, federal resources were staged to arrive as quickly as possible. The federal government’s immediate focus is: 1. Conducting life-saving rescue and medical missions 2. Clearing routes of debris 3. Restoring emergency communications and power generation, and 4. Maintaining a heavy flow of meals, water and other commodities for communities The travel distance to the Islands; as well as substantial impacts to air and sea ports, has presented complex challenges requiring a phased approach to the delivery of personnel, resources, equipment to move the resources, and lodging for responders. There are thousands of federal staff, including more than 600 FEMA personnel, on the ground in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands engaged in response and recovery operations from Hurricanes Maria and Irma. Hundreds of additional federal personnel are supporting response and recovery operations through mainland coordination centers and logistics facilities. To donate or volunteer for the U.S. Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico, contact the voluntary or charitable organization of your choice through the National Voluntary Agencies Active in Disasters (NVOAD) at www.nvoad.org. NVOAD is coordinating closely with the Puerto Rico Governor’s Office on offers of assistance. To make a cash donation directly to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, visit www.unitedforpuertorico.com. Delivery of Commodities and Communications Officials in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico opened points of distribution (POD) in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands for survivors to get meals, water, and other commodities. The Governor of the U.S. Virgin Islands announced that locations in St. Thomas, St. Croix, and St. John will be open Friday. FEMA, working in coordination with federal partners, provided millions of meals and millions of liters of water to Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. Additional meals and water continue to arrive to the islands daily. FEMA’s National Business Emergency Operations Center (NBEOC) is facilitating private sector requests for humanitarian relief. The NBEOC continues coordination between government and private sector organizations as the community responds to Hurricanes Maria. Mobile Emergency Response Support (MERS) communications assets and personnel continue to support the FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams (IMAT), Urban Search and Rescue (US&R), National Disaster Medical System (NDMS), and other federal teams in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. As of September 27, 2017, there are more than 30 MERS personnel in Puerto Rico and more than 20 MERS personnel in the USVI. A U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) mobile communications team is in Puerto Rico to help improve communications across the storm-impacted area. Life Safety and Life Sustaining FEMA search and rescue teams have accessed 90 percent of Puerto Rico, conducting search and rescue operations and helping to assess hospitals. FEMA US&R task forces saved or assisted 843 individuals and five pets, while searching over 2,600 structures as of September 27. The U.S. Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority drinking water system is back online, and other drinking water systems on the islands are top priority for receiving generators. Additionally, the Concordia potable water pump station is online in St. Croix. The U.S. Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority Waste Management, and USACE are addressing potential public health risks of garbage build up; coordinating route clearance of wires and poles to enable garbage haulers to access the St. Thomas landfill. The National Guard Bureau (NGB) has thousands of Guard members on the ground in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands taking part in security and support operations. The Air National Guard is focused on transporting food, water, and communications capabilities as well as rapidly increasing airlift into affected areas. More than 180 Federal Law Enforcement Officers (FLEO) are in San Juan and the U.S. Virgin Islands supporting search and rescue, medical teams, and other federal responders, additional FLEOs are en route expected to arrive this week. Additional law enforcement support from New York State Police is on the ground in St. John. Fuel, Transportation, and Debris The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has supported the restoration of services to seven of eight commercial airports in Puerto Rico. The FAA has restored full Air Traffic Control (ATC) services to Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan and limited ATC services to Rafael Hernandez Airport in Aguadilla. Recovery efforts are now supporting more than a dozen commercial passenger flights per day at Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan, Puerto Rico. The Transportation Security Administration is continuing to use hand-held metal detectors to screen passengers at the San Juan airport. Generators are providing power to operate a four-lane checkpoint, x-ray machines and body scanners. TSA is able to handle all passengers who are ticketed. In support of Hurricane Maria relief and reconstitution operations, the U.S. government established Temporary Air Traffic Flow Management Procedures for flights into San Juan International Airport in Puerto Rico. Ponce, Roosevelt Roads, and Aguadilla Airports in Puerto Rico are open for military and relief flights during daylight. 17 chainsaw teams (34 individuals) and one Incident Management Team (IMT) (23 individuals) from the Department of Agriculture United States Forest Service arrived in Puerto Rico Wednesday to conduct emergency road clearance and manage logistics. Nine additional teams are en route. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) deployed debris experts to assist FEMA with debris management strategies in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. One of the first priorities is emergency route clearance in multiple locations to enable access to remote locations. USACE also completed a Blue Roof install on Cyril E. King Airport on St. Thomas, and completed its first residential Blue Roof install on September 23. Assessments for St. Croix are ongoing. A customer service center for Blue Roof installations opened over the weekend for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. To bolster the delivery of fuel throughout Puerto Rico, 100 delivery trucks were dispatched by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) carrying an estimated 275,000 gallons of diesel fuel. The federal government is working with its interagency and private sector partners to support availability, transportation and delivery of fuel, based on priorities identified by Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The federal support for fuel transportation includes air and sea logistical support by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), U.S. Northern Command, the U.S. Navy, and U.S. Coast Guard, in coordination with the private sector. Power is restored to Centro Médico Hospital in San Juan and San Pablo Hospital in Bayamón, Puerto Rico. The Governor Juan F. Luis Hospital in St. Croix and the Schneider Regional Medical Center in St. Thomas are established as mobile hospitals. More than half of dialysis centers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are open and accessible for patients. More critical care facilities will re-open in the coming days as power and access are restored. The U.S. Coast Guard reports the following port statuses with additional ports opening as assessments continue: Puerto Rico Open: Port of San Juan, Guayanilla, Salinas, and Talboa Open with restrictions: Arecibo, Fajardo, Culebra, Guayama, Mayaguez, and Vieques U.S. Virgin Islands Open: St. Thomas: Charlotte Amalie, East Gregerie Channel, Crown Bay, West Gregerie Channel; St. Croix: Krause Lagoon, Frederiksted, Limetree Bay Open with Restrictions: St. Thomas: Redhook Bay; St. John: Cruz Bay USACE coordinated transportation of more than 300 FEMA or Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) generators from across the U.S. to meet anticipated requirements in the islands. Additional generators are arriving in the coming days. In Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, USACE and DLA are conducting assessments of critical facilities for generator installation. Information for Survivors For those in declared areas who are able to do so, registering online, at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, is the quickest way to register for FEMA assistance. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the recent hurricanes. The American Red Cross Safe and Well website is a free public reunification tool that allows individuals and organizations to register and post messages to search for loved ones, or for individuals to indicate that they are safe. The site is always available, open to the public, and available in English and Spanish. There are a number of ways to use this service: Registrations and searches can be done directly on the website. Registrations can also be completed by texting SAFE to 78876. Messages exist in both Spanish and English. To speak with someone at the American Red Cross concerning a missing friend or relative who has a serious, pre-existing health or mental health condition, please contact 1-800 Red Cross (1-800-733-2767). The American Red Cross Emergency App features an “I’m Safe” button that allows users to post a message to their social accounts, letting friends and family know they are out of harm’s way. The app can be downloaded for free in app stores by searching for “American Red Cross” or by texting ‘GETEMERGENCY’ to 90999. Anyone who finds a child who may be separated from parents or caregivers, please contact the local police and enter basic information and/or a photo into the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children's Unaccompanied Minors Registry. If you find an unaccompanied child, please indicate whether the child has a disability or has access and functional needs in the appropriate field in the Unaccompanied Minors Registry. If you do not have access to the internet, please call 1-866-908-9570. FEMA is raising awareness that Hurricane Maria disaster survivors, and their friends and family, should be alert for false rumors, scams, identity theft, and fraud. Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Visit FEMA's Hurricane Rumor Control page to get the most accurate information from trusted sources. Mail service returned to the U.S. Virgin Islands this week. The Cruz Bay Post Office in St. John will is providing mail service from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. In St. Thomas, more packages and mail are arriving. Declarations On September 26, President Trump amended the earlier major disaster declaration for Puerto Rico approving a 100 percent federal cost share for debris removal and emergency protective measures, including direct Federal assistance, for 180 days from the date of the declaration (September 20). On September 26, President Trump approved a 100 percent federal cost share for debris removal and emergency protective measures, including direct federal assistance, for 180 days from the start of the incident period for Hurricane Irma. Additional amendments for Hurricane Maria may be approved at a later date. On September 23, President Trump amended the earlier major disaster declaration for the U.S. Virgin Islands to make funding available to affected individuals in St. Thomas and St. John. Safety Stay off the roads. Emergency workers may be assisting people in flooded areas or cleaning up debris. You can help them by staying off the roads and out of the way. Use extreme caution when entering buildings that are damaged. Ensure water is safe to drink, cook or clean with after a flood. Oftentimes a boil water order is put in place following a flood. Avoid strenuous work during the warmest part of the day. Use a buddy system when working in extreme heat, and take frequent breaks. Additional information for the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico is available at the following locations: www.VIalert.gov (U.S. Virgin Islands) USVIupdate.com (U.S. Virgin Islands) http://eldiamenospensado.pr.gov/ (Puerto Rico) http://www2.pr.gov/Pages/Huracan.aspx (Puerto Rico) Puerto Rico’s Federal Affairs Administration: By Email: maria1@prfaa.pr.gov By Phone: (202) 800-3133 Additional information regarding Hurricane Maria is available in English and Spanish at: fema.gov/hurricane-maria Follow FEMA on Twitter @femaregion2 https://www.fema.gov/es/huracan-maria https://twitter.com/FEMAespanol ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives applauding the creation of the National Commission to Search for Disappeared Persons in the context of El Salvador’s armed conflict: “I commend President Sánchez Cerén, the Government of El Salvador and the Salvadoran people for working together to establish the National Commission to Search for Disappeared Persons in the context of El Salvador’s armed conflict (Comisión Nacional de Búsqueda de Personas Desaparecidas en el contexto del conflicto armado en El Salvador/CONABUSQUEDA). “I am particularly grateful for the leadership of the Mauricio Aquino Foundation for bringing to this initiative the voices of Salvadoran-American families who still search for answers about what happened to their missing relatives and loved ones. “I firmly believe that the establishment of this National Commission will play an important role in the effort to address El Salvador’s collective grief and heal the wounds of the past. Salvadorans deserve to know what happened to their family members, to bury them with dignity and love, should their remains be recovered, and to find some closure to their suffering. “In El Salvador and the United States, it is critical for our governments, police, military, intelligence and other agencies to take extra care and effort to preserve all records and files that might provide any information, documentation, context or clues that might help solve the puzzle of each missing individual. These files should be made available to the National Commission in aid of this search. “I wish the National Commission/CONABUSQUEDA every success in its humanitarian mission and I call upon my own government to support its important work.” In addition to today’s statement, Congressman McGovern sent a letter to President Sánchez Cerén this week saying the commission will play an important role in the search for answers for the children, parents and siblings of some of the thousands who disappeared during the Salvadoran civil war. Click here to view Congressman McGovern’s letter to President Sánchez Cerén. Full Text of McGovern’s Letter to President Sánchez Cerén is Below: The Honorable Salvador Sánchez Cerén President of El Salvador Casa Presidencial San Salvador, El Salvador Dear President Sánchez Cerén, I write to offer my congratulations and support for your decree establishing a National Commission to search and resolve cases of the disappeared from El Salvador’s civil war. I regret that I cannot attend Wednesday’s announcement and formal launch of the Commission due to urgent matters before the U.S. Congress here in Washington, D.C. I would like to express again my appreciation for your time and that of your ministers and officials this past January you met with a delegation from the Mauricio Aquino Foundation, other human rights groups, and Salvadoran and Salvadoran-American families who are still searching for answers about what happened to their missing relatives and loved ones. It was a powerful and moving experience for me, and I could see that even the opportunity to meet with you and discuss directly the pain of their not knowing was an act of healing. I firmly believe that the establishment of a National Commission to Search for the Disappeared will be a valuable contribution for the families and children of the missing and a valuable part of your legacy as president. It will play an important role in the effort to address El Salvador’s collective grief and heal the wounds of the past. I appreciate your commitment to seeing it established in a timely manner. For the Commission to be successful, each of our countries must now take extra effort and care to preserve and make available to the Commission all government, military, intelligence and security records of the period that might help shed light, provide information, clues, context or other documentation that might help solve the puzzle of each missing individual. This is the minimum we can do for these grieving individuals and families. Once again, thank you for your leadership on establishing this National Commission and further advancing peace and reconciliation in El Salvador. Please know that I will do all that I can to support this important initiative. Sincerely, ###
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) is joining with his fellow Members of Congress in calling for strong action by the White House to do all they can to help the more than 3 million American citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands who are struggling to recover after Hurricane Maria. Families and loved ones of American citizens impacted by Hurricane Maria can find resources and information on recovery efforts below: Click here to view FEMA’s main page for up-to-date resources and information on the federal response to Hurricane Maria. How To Find Or Reunite With Loved Ones Following events like Hurricane Maria, we understand that communications networks are not always operational. As communications are restored, there are numerous options for survivors, friends, and family members to search for loved ones. Survivors with internet access are encouraged to connect with friends and family members via social media platforms. Additional resources below are suggested for those both outside and inside the impacted areas. American Red Cross The American Red Cross Safe and Well website allows individuals to register themselves as safe or search for loved ones. The site is always available, open to the public, and available in English and Spanish. There are a number of ways to use this service: Registrations and searches can be done directly on the website. Registrations can also be completed by texting SAFE to 78876. Messages exist in both Spanish and English. To speak with someone at the American Red Cross concerning a missing friend or relative who has a serious, pre-existing health or mental health condition, please contact 1-800 Red Cross (1-800-733-2767). The American Red Cross Emergency App features an “I’m Safe” button that allows users to post a message to their social accounts, letting friends and family know they are out of harm’s way. The app can be downloaded for free in app stores by searching for “American Red Cross” or by texting ‘GETEMERGENCY’ to 90999. National Center for Missing & Exploited Children Anyone who finds a child who may be separated from parents or caregivers, please contact the local police and enter basic information and/or a photo into the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children's Unaccompanied Minors Registry. If you find an unaccompanied child, please indicate whether the child has a disability or has access and functional needs in the appropriate field in the Unaccompanied Minors Registry. If you do not have access to the internet, please call 1-866-908-9570. Information for Tourists Any tourists requiring transport off the islands should contact the U.S. Virgin Islands Department of Tourism at (340) 772-0357 or visit www.usviupdate.com/ for additional information. The Puerto Rico Tourism Company has set up a hotline at 877-976-2400 for people staying at hotels. Local Resources The Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration directed those seeking information or assistance to call 202-800-3133 or email maria1@prfaa.pr.gov. Additional information for the U.S. Virgin Islands is available at the following locations: • VIalert.gov • USVIupdate.com • InformUSVI.com How To Help National Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster (National VOAD) members including voluntary, non-profit, and faith-based organizations also are working closely with the affected states and communities to assist by supporting with temporary roofing for disaster survivors. Many voluntary agencies continue to provide services to disaster survivors, including providing shelter, meals, clean-up supplies, etc. For those who wish to help, go here: http://www.nvoad.org; cash donations offer voluntary agencies the most flexibility in obtaining the most-needed resources and pumps money into the local economy to help businesses recover. ###
09.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House floor to highlight the success of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) – previously known as “food stamps,” ahead of the 40th anniversary of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 this week. The legislation was a landmark bill that expanded the reach of the food stamp program and made it more effective and efficient in helping millions of Americans who struggle with hunger. “This Friday marks the 40th anniversary of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, landmark legislation that expanded the reach of the food stamp program and made it more effective and efficient. In 2008, we renamed the program SNAP – the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. “The modern SNAP program provides millions of children, seniors, and other vulnerable adults with food assistance each year. It helps families lift themselves out of poverty, and improves health, educational, and economic outcomes for its recipients. “SNAP works. It is our nation’s first line of defense against hunger, and one of the most important tools we have to help lift our neighbors out of poverty. Still, as 42 million Americans continue to struggle with hunger and food insecurity, more needs to be done. “In the spirit of Senators McGovern and Dole, it is time for Congress to renew their bipartisan commitment to ending hunger in this country once and for all. “As we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the landmark Food Stamp Act of 1977, I urge my colleagues to join me in strengthening SNAP and working to end hunger now.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech is Below: “This Friday marks the 40th anniversary of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, landmark legislation that expanded the reach of the food stamp program and made it more effective and efficient. “The bipartisan legislation came as a response to the severe hunger and malnutrition that plagued our country in the 1960s. In 1968, a CBS documentary called Hunger in America turned the nation’s focus to this terrible problem, making us all aware that even in the United States of America – the richest country in the history of the world – kids were going to school hungry and families couldn’t afford nutritious meals. “For the next decade, my friend and mentor, Senator George McGovern, a Democrat from South Dakota, and Senator Bob Dole, a Republican from Kansas, led the Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs. This bipartisan panel worked to examine the issue of hunger and malnutrition in the United States. They held field hearings to witness first-hand how devastating the curse of hunger was across this country. They worked together to educate the public and other Members of Congress on hunger, and worked together to find common ground on how best to tackle this terrible problem. “Out of this work came important updates to the food stamp program. The Food Stamp Act of 1977 established national standards of eligibility for the program and eliminated the requirement that recipients pay for their stamps. It was revolutionary, and helped to dramatically reduce dramatically reduce poverty and severe hunger in the United States. “Since the 1970s, Congress has worked to strengthen the program, making it even more effective and efficient. We’ve modernized benefit processing and replaced the paper food stamps with EBT cards. We’ve added incentives for the purchase of healthy foods and improved access to fresh fruits and vegetables. We’ve updated benefit calculations to exclude combat pay for military families and allow childcare deductions to assist families with young children. And in 2008, we renamed the program SNAP – the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. “The modern SNAP program provides millions of children, seniors, and other vulnerable adults with food assistance each year. It helps families lift themselves out of poverty, and improves health, educational, and economic outcomes for its recipients. “As I hear from families in my district, I learn how powerful SNAP is at transforming lives. “Just last week, I heard the story of a graduate school educated constituent who became disabled and unable to work, and who was resistant to applying for SNAP. She didn’t think she fit the profile of someone who needed food benefits. But she did. She applied for and received benefits, and now she no longer panics about where her next meal is coming from. “This constituent wanted us to know that people who use SNAP are not lazy. She said, “SNAP helps people at least not have to worry as much about going to bed, school, or work hungry.” “Another constituent shared that she and her husband rely on SNAP to eat healthier meals. Prior to receiving benefits, they had peanut butter and jelly for almost every meal. Now, with modest assistance, they are able to buy fruits and vegetables. While they still continue to struggle, they are able to enjoy more nutritious meals and they have even seen an improvement in their health. “These are just a few stories of how important it is to maintain – and increase – these life-saving food benefits. “Still, as 42 million Americans continue to struggle with hunger and food insecurity, more needs to be done. “In preparation for the 2018 Farm Bill, the House Agriculture Committee has conducted a thorough review of the program. We’ve held 23 hearings and received testimony from dozens of expert witnesses – both liberal and conservative – who agree the program is working. “Based on this testimony, we’ve learned there is no reason whatsoever to undermine the program through structural changes, block grants, further restrictions, more onerous requirements, or cuts, as some of my colleagues in the House have proposed. “Instead, we should be focused on making the program even better. We need to make sure anyone who needs modest food assistance benefits has access to them. We need to support and expand innovative programs that help to increase the purchasing power of SNAP. “And we need to increase SNAP benefits, which currently average a mere $1.40 per person, per meal, to provide families on the program with access to more nutritious food that will last them through the month. “SNAP works. It is our nation’s first line of defense against hunger, and one of the most important tools we have to help lift our neighbors out of poverty. “In the spirit of Senators McGovern and Dole, it is time for Congress to renew their bipartisan commitment to ending hunger in this country once and for all. “As we celebrate the 40th anniversary of the landmark Food Stamp Act of 1977, I urge my colleagues to join me in strengthening SNAP and working to end hunger now.” ###
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL), co-chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, along with Representatives Norma Torres (D-CA) and Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), led a bipartisan group of 116 lawmakers calling on the Trump Administration to extend temporary protections for Salvadorans and Hondurans living in the United States. The letter asks Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke to renew the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designations for these individuals due to dire conditions in Honduras and El Salvador. According to the letter, there is a temporary but substantial disruption to living standards in both countries due to Hurricane Mitch in Honduras and a series of major earthquakes in El Salvador. Violence in both countries has made recovery more difficult. “Failing to renew these protections would tear apart families across the country and undermine U.S. efforts to advance prosperity and security in Central America,” said Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA). “I sincerely hope that Acting Secretary Duke and the Trump Administration extend TPS just as previous Democratic and Republican administrations have done before. TPS holders are valued friends, neighbors, and business owners in our communities and they deserve to stay until conditions back home stabilize.” “Renewing the Temporary Protected Status designation for El Salvador and Honduras after natural disasters and the continued violence and political unrest is the right thing to do for current TPS holders and United States’ foreign policy,” said Congressman Randy Hultgren (R-IL). “To send people home now, when their countries have no viable way to safely handle their reentry, would further destabilize the region and may require further humanitarian action by the United States. The United States should maintain our leadership position on the international stage by following through with our shared commitment to basic human rights and protections for those fleeing disasters and violence.” “The livelihoods and safety of around 300,000 Central Americans are in the hands of Acting Secretary Duke and the Trump administration. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of members in calling on Acting Secretary Duke to extend TPS, for the sake of stability in Honduras and El Salvador and out of consideration for the fact that TPS holders have made their lives here,” said Congresswoman Norma Torres (D-CA). “For almost two decades, Presidents from both parties have recognized that granting Temporary Protected Status to people whose lives would be in danger if sent back to their home countries is the compassionate and quintessentially American thing to do,” said Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ). “America has long been a refuge for families fleeing extreme poverty, violence and natural disasters. Extending TPS for Central Americans is consistent with this proud tradition and with our values as a nation. Moreover, failing to do so would jeopardize bipartisan efforts to bring stability and prosperity to the region. I am hopeful that the Administration will heed our letter and ensure that TPS holders can remain in the United States and continue to contribute to our businesses, schools and communities.” The Secretary of Homeland Security may designate a foreign country for TPS due to conditions in the country that temporarily prevent the country's nationals from returning safely, or in certain circumstances, where the country is unable to handle the return of its nationals adequately. TPS is a temporary benefit that does not lead to lawful permanent resident status or give any other immigration status. There are currently approximately 200,000 Salvadorans who hold TPS and the approximately 61,000 Hondurans. TPS designations have been made and extended under administrations of both political parties since its creation by statute in 1990. Click here to view the signed letter. Joining Representatives McGovern, Hultgren, Torres, and Gallego on the letter were Representatives Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Don Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Darren Soto (D-FL), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), André Carson (D-IN), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), John Lewis (D-GA), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Stephanie Murphy (D-FL), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Val Demings (D-FL), Raja Krishnamoorthi (D-IL), Judy Chu (D-CA), J. Luis Correa (D-CA), Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX), José Serrano (D-NY), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Anthony Brown (D-MD), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Bobby Rush (D-IL), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Bradley Schneider (D-IL), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Adam Smith (D-WA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), David Cicilline (D-RI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Richard Neal (D-MA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Bill Keating (D-MA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Jared Polis (D-CO), Rick Larsen (D-WA), David Price (NC), Mike Coffman (R-CO), Ann Kuster (D-NH), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Linda Sánchez (D-CA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Dina Titus (D-NV), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Hank Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), John Delaney (D-MD), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Lois, Frankel (D-FL), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Al Lawson, Jr. (D-FL), and Nita M. Lowey (D-NY). The text of the letter is below: Dear Acting Secretary Duke, We write to strongly urge you to renew the Temporary Protected Status designation for Honduras and El Salvador. Failing to renew TPS would needlessly tear apart families and communities across the country. There are currently approximately 200,000 Salvadorans who hold TPS and the approximately 61,000 Hondurans. TPS holders from Honduras and El Salvador have become valued and important members of our communities. They have started families, opened businesses, and contributed to this country in countless ways. They are part of the fabric of America. Honduras and El Salvador remain unprepared to receive these individuals. As the most recent TPS extension notes, there is a “substantial, but temporary, disruption of living conditions” in both countries, resulting from Hurricane Mitch in Honduras and a series of earthquakes in El Salvador. Unfortunately, conditions have not improved sufficiently since the most recent extension. Additionally, El Salvador and Honduras are ranked as among the most violent countries in the world, and job opportunities are scarce. These factors complicate the ability of Honduras and El Salvador to fully recover from the natural disasters that resulted in their original designation. The potential return of hundreds of thousands of former TPS holders to Honduras and El Salvador would likely bring destabilizing consequences throughout the region. At the Conference for Prosperity and Security in Central America, you stated that the “U.S. Homeland Security mission is affected directly by what goes on in Central America.” We agree, and we are deeply concerned that failing to renew TPS status for Honduras and El Salvador would undermine U.S. efforts to advance prosperity and security in Central America. TPS designations have been made and extended under administrations of both political parties since its creation by statute in 1990; extension of these TPS designations is not only fully within your authority but completely appropriate given the country conditions. We strongly urge you to renew TPS, in order to preserve the integrity of American families and communities, and to steady the path of progress being made toward stability in the region. Thank you for your consideration of this important request. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced President Trump’s plan to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative: “Today’s decision by President Trump to rescind DACA yet again shows us the cruelty and ugliness of his Administration. Instead of displaying leadership on this issue and working with Congress on a solution rather than ending the program, the President has again given in to his worst instincts and supported the voices of hate and bigotry. “If President Trump actually took the time to talk to DREAMers, he would know that they are proud Americans who contribute to and grow our economy -- they are our neighbors, our friends, and members of our military. They are nurses, engineers, and entrepreneurs. Most were brought here as very young children and worked hard to become responsible community members. “Forcing these young people to leave the only home they have ever known will needlessly destroy hundreds of thousands of families. Speaker Ryan and House Republicans must immediately bring up legislation to protect DREAMers from the Trump Administration’s heartless decision. Until then, DREAMers should know that the doors to my office are always open to anyone in need of assistance and my office will always be a safe haven.”
09.01.2017	LEOMINSTER, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined local leaders and community members to present U.S. military medals to Central Massachusetts veterans and military families to honor their service. “America has a responsibility to honor all of our veterans and the sacrifices they made to serve our country. Today we are proud to recognize these veterans and military families with medals that truly honor all that they have sacrificed to serve our country and strengthen our communities,” Congressman McGovern said. “With the medals we presented today, we expressed our deep gratitude for decades of truly selfless service. It was a great honor to be able to present Mr. Harrington with the WWII Victory Medal to honor him and wish him a happy birthday. On behalf of our communities here in Central Massachusetts and our country, we say thank you to all of our veterans and military families.” William Harrington, Jr., who served in the U.S. Navy from 1946-1948, was presented with the: WWII Victory Medal and Honorable Discharge Button Nona Ojala, whose late father, Finous DeLoach, served in U.S. Navy from 1940s to approximately 1950s, was presented with the: American Campaign Medal Set Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal Set Combat Action Ribbon Navy Honorable Discharge Button European African Middle Eastern Campaign Medal Set Honorable Service Lapel Button (Ruptured Duck) National Defense Service Medal Set Navy Good Conduct Medal Navy Occupation Service Medal World War II Victory Medal Set
08.31.2017	ORANGE, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined national and local leaders to announce $47,620 in new federal funding for the Orange Fire Department from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The funding comes through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Operations and Safety program and will allow the Orange Fire Department to replace 30-year-old Jaws of Life hydraulic equipment used to rescue vehicle crash victims and others trapped in small spaces. “Today we are proud to announce $47,620 in new federal funding that will help the Orange Fire Department buy the lifesaving equipment they need as they continue to serve our community. Keeping our families safe starts with strong investments in our first responders,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to FEMA for this essential funding and to the Orange firefighters and their families for the sacrifices they make to help keep all of us safe. We are all so thankful to Chief Young and all our firefighters for all they do to serve our community.” Congressman McGovern was joined today by Orange Fire Department Chief James Young, Jr., FEMA Northeast Regional Fire Program Specialist David L. Parr, members of the Orange Fire Department, and local community members. ###
08.23.2017	WORCESTER, MA – This week, U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (MA-02) hosting his 7th annual cross-district agricultural tour to meet with farmers, agricultural producers, non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations in Central and Western Massachusetts to highlight the success of our region’s agricultural industry and its role in growing the local economy. McGovern is meeting with local producers of vegetables, dairy, and meat, and will also meet with non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations. McGovern will be joined by leaders from the USDA, Mass. State Farm Service Agency, Mass. Department of Agricultural Resources, UMass, Central MA Grown, as well as many other local, state and federal leaders. On the farm tour, Congressman McGovern will speak directly with farmers about the issues impacting them and how he can help. The tour will include visits to local farms as well as roundtable discussions on a wide range of topics such as: Farms in Transition, exploring new sources of revenue through the sale of additional agricultural products and the Massachusetts Healthy Incentives Program (HIP) and Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive (FINI), new efforts to helps tackle hunger by making SNAP benefits eligible for purchasing food at farmers markets and other agricultural commercial venues. Click here to learn more about the HIP and FINI programs. Congressman McGovern will see firsthand the impact of local, state and federal programs and discuss additional ways that government at all levels can support the Massachusetts food economy. A Full List of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour is below: Tuesday, August 22nd – Day 1 8:00-9:00AM: Tour of Douglas Orchard, 36 Locust Street, Douglas 9:30-10:30AM: Tour of Highloft Farm, 24 King Road, Sutton 11:00AM-12:00PM: Tour of Robinson Greenhouses, 434 Grove Street, Paxton 12:15-1:30PM: Lunch & Roundtable on Farms in Transition at Schultz Country Store & Barnside Café, 163 Maple Avenue, Rutland 1:45–2:45PM: Tour of Dismas Family Farm, 687 Lincoln Road, Oakham 3:00-4:00PM: Tour of Walker Farm at Whorteberry Hill, 1290 West Brookfield Road, New Braintree 4:30-5:30PM: Tour of Hartman’s Herb Farm & Bed and Breakfast, 1026 Old Dana Road, Barre Wednesday, August 23rd – Day 2 8:00-9:00AM: Tour of UMass Amherst Cold Spring Orchard, 391 Sabin Street, Belchertown 9:30-10:30AM: Tour of Simple Gifts Farm, 1089 North Pleasant Street, Amherst 10:50-11:50AM: Tour of Bardwell Farm, 49 Main Street, Hatfield 12:00-1:30PM: Lunch & Roundtable on HIP/FINI at Nourse Farms, 41 River Road, South Deerfield 1:45-2:45PM: Tour of Sage Farm, 119 Old Sunderland Road, Montague 3:00-3:45PM: Tour of Australis Farm, 1 Australis Road, Turners Falls For more info and to RSVP, please contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov.
08.15.2017	"This is a blatant attempt to undermine the democracy movement in Hong Kong" share: f t Rep. James P. McGovern, Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and a leading voice on behalf of human rights in the United States Congress, issued the following statement today in response to reports that Hong Kong democracy activists Joshua Wong, Nathan Law and Alex Chow are reportedly facing months of prison time for their participation in the 2014 Umbrella Movement protests: “In recent days I’ve received a number of reports that Joshua Wong, Nathan Law and Alex Chow -- three brave democracy activists in Hong Kong – could be sentenced a second time on charges linked to their leadership of the Umbrella Protests in 2014. They’ve already been sentenced once for the ‘crime’ of ‘unlawful assembly,’ and completed their community service. But the Hong Kong Department of Justice decided to go after them again. If their new sentences are longer than three months, all three will be disqualified from running for political office for five years. “Let’s be clear what’s going on here: this is a blatant attempt to undermine the democracy movement in Hong Kong. If the courts go through with this, everyone should understand that they are doing Beijing’s bidding – and making a mockery of rule of law in the process. Joshua, Nathan and Alex will become political prisoners, and China will once again demonstrate its total lack of regard for basic human rights. “I hope the courts are wiser than this, but I fear they are not. The world is watching.”
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined Worcester Business Development Corporation (WBDC) in applauding the award of two Small Business Administration (SBA) 504 loans this month for two local businesses – Flying Rhino Café & Watering Hole and Skylark Law & Mediation, P.C. The Flying Rhino is receiving $343,954.00 through the SBA loan program and Skylark Law & Mediation is receiving $181,500.00, for a combined total of $525,454 in federal funding for the local economy. This growth and expansion is a result of the financing provided by two local banks in conjunction with the WBDC’s SBA 504 loan program. "Small businesses are the heart and soul of our economy in Central Massachusetts and this is a smart investment in two of Worcester’s many great small businesses,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “I am proud to work with strong partners like the Worcester Business Development Corporation and the SBA. Together, we will continue to stand up for all of our small businesses and ensure they have the support they need to continue to create good jobs and keep our economy strong and growing.” “WBDC, working in partnership with Congressman McGovern and the federally funded SBA 504 program, is pleased to provide this low interest, fixed asset financing to our small businesses” said Craig L. Blais, President and CEO of the WBDC. “Our success rate continues to climb with each loan funded and added into the existing $36+ million dollar portfolio.” The SBA 504 Loan Program is designed to incentivize small businesses to invest in real estate, machinery, or equipment by providing a 20 or 10 year fixed interest rate with a 10 percent equity infusion by the borrower. These attractive terms of financing help small businesses retain capital to strengthen their bottom line, allowing them to truly invest in their businesses at the ground level. Read more here. WBDC serves the Worcester County area, providing economic development choices to stimulate job creation to increase the tax basis and expand the footprint of businesses within the region. WBDC actively markets, processes and closes the SBA 504 loans on behalf of the small businesses in partnership with local banks, credit unions, commercial realtors, and financial advisors. Since 1981, with the inception of the SBA 504 program, WBDC has earned its certification as a certified development corporation working with the SBA Boston District Office to provide financing opportunities for new businesses. Paul Barber, owner of Flying Rhino Café & Watering Hole, seized the opportunity to acquire his investment at 278 Shrewsbury Street, Worcester, MA by partnering with Spencer Bank and the WBDC’s SBA 504 program. Paul and his wife Melina offer an eclectic mix of food and drink in a casual atmosphere. Their offerings range from lunch and dinner seven days per week, to a special brunch menu on Sundays, and a Late Night Special Menu. A full bar, in addition to a wine cellar, 12 rotating draft beers, and a selection of over 24 bottled beers complements their restaurant and creates a warm and inviting atmosphere for its patrons. Skylark Law & Mediation, PC is a legal practice specializing in family law and dispute resolution and mediation services. Justin Kelsey, Elizabeth Kelsey and Michael Paonessa expanded their business to a new location at 9 Main Street, Southborough, MA. Utilizing the WBDC’s SBA 504 loan program with Eastern Bank has provided Justin’s business room to grow with additional space to lease to other small businesses. ###
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, spoke on the House floor to condemn the extreme budget proposed by House Republicans which proposes $160 billion in cuts to aid for millions of families who struggle with hunger. The cuts target the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the country’s premiere anti-hunger program. Full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below. Click here for video of today’s speech. “Just weeks after President Trump released his devastating Budget which guts SNAP, our nation’s first line of defense against hunger, House Republicans have joined in that effort, proposing drastic cuts to our anti-hunger safety net in the budget they marked-up last week. “In their Budget, House Republicans have laid out their dangerous agenda: dramatic increases in defense spending and tax cuts for millionaires, billionaires, and corporations -- all paid for by cuts to programs that help working class families and those struggling to make ends meet. “Among the proposed cuts, House Republicans are seeking $160 billion in cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – known as SNAP – over 10 years. $150 billion of these cuts come from structural changes to SNAP and harsher work requirements and time limits, and an additional $10 billion would be fast-tracked through the reconciliation process. “SNAP is not an ATM. It’s not money to be used for tax breaks for the wealthy, additional weapons systems, or any corporate handouts. It is intended to help our most vulnerable neighbors purchase groceries and put food on the table when times are tough. Simply put, SNAP helps people eat. “For a meager $1.40 per person, per meal, SNAP helps alleviate poverty, reduce hunger, and improve nutrition. It is one of the most efficient and effective federal programs. “I serve as the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Nutrition. Since 2015, the Committee has held 23 hearings on SNAP. In our hearings we’ve heard from over 80 expert witnesses – Republican and Democrat – about ways to make SNAP even better. But none of these witnesses – not one – ever suggested changes like the ones proposed by President Trump and House Republicans. “These Republican proposals are mean-spirited, and they are just as heartless as they are reckless. They don’t reflect the realities of the program or seek to understand the challenges faced by those living in poverty. They don’t help struggling Americans find work, and they certainly don’t help to address the “benefit cliff,” as some of my Republican colleagues have proposed doing. “If Republicans were genuinely interested in helping struggling families rise out of poverty, they would join Democrats in advocating for higher wages, more jobs, and better work supports like child care and transportation. They would address affordable housing shortages and help to improve access to health care. They would increase investments in job training and career and technical education. They would finally work with us to make college more affordable. “But instead of working on these priorities, House Republicans are hell-bent on pursuing an agenda that belittles the struggles of the working poor and tears apart our safety-net. “This awful budget is no exception. “Under the guise of “state flexibility,” the budget proposes a block grant-like approach to administering SNAP. “Make no mistake, block granting SNAP would make hunger worse in this country, plain and simple. It would undermine the successful structure of SNAP – its ability to expand as the economy struggles and contract in times of economic prosperity. The proposed structural changes would likely result in drastic funding cuts and reduced eligibility for the program. “If state flexibility is the true goal, then my Republican friends are in luck. SNAP already has a number of options that states can adopt. What’s ironic is some of these state options are exactly the provisions House Republicans are seeking to do away with. “The Republican budget also calls for additional work requirements in SNAP, relying on dangerous rhetoric that suggests that hardworking families who rely on modest food benefits don’t want to work or are lazy. “That couldn’t be further from the truth. “I’d like to point out that the majority of people on SNAP who can work, do work. Most people on SNAP are not expected to work or cannot work – they are children, senior citizens, and people who are disabled. That’s exactly who Republicans will be hurt if these dangerous proposals advance. “If we’re talking about how we can help transition people who can work into the workforce, you don’t do that by cutting the program by billions of dollars, or by cutting people off from food aid. That does nothing to help people find jobs – it only makes them hungry. “I urge my Republican colleagues to join me in rejecting these damaging cuts, and to support investments in our anti-hunger safety net that will help end hunger now.” ###
07.21.2017	WORCESTER, MA – Today, July 21st, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) is kicking off his 4th annual Summer Food Rocks Tour to highlight USDA's national Summer Food Service Program and how it helps ensure that low-income students in Massachusetts do not go hungry during the summer months when school is out of session. Today’s tour includes visits to schools and summer meals sites in Athol, Greenfield, Leominster, and Worcester. Click here for information on the 2016 tour, 2015 tour and 2014 tour. As part of Congressman McGovern’s fourth annual tour, he will lead roundtable discussions with national, state, and local leaders to talk about how the summer food program helps communities in need and visit summer meals sites across the region. Leaders joining Congressman McGovern’s tour include: • State Senator Mike Moore (Worcester) • State Rep. Natalie Higgins (Leominster) • State Rep. Jim O’Day (Worcester) • State Rep. Paul Mark (Greenfield) • City Councilor George Russell (Worcester) • Martha Assefa, Worcester Food Policy Council • Kali Coughlin, Worcester County Food Bank • Andrea Hayes, U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development, Multifamily Northeast Region • Simca Horwitz, Eastern Mass. Director for Mass Farm to School • Noreen Kelly and Maura Ackerman, Project Bread • Rob Leshin, Director of the Office for Food and Nutrition Programs MA ESE • Ellen Nylen, Food Service Director for Webster Public Schools • Siobhan O’Riordan and Eddie Ortega, USDA Northeast Regional Office • Irene Sedlacko, Special Nutrition Programs Coordinator at MA ESE The USDA Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. This summer, USDA plans to serve more than 200 million free meals to children 18 years and under at approved SFSP sites. Full info on today’s tour is below: 8:50AM – 9:20AM in LEOMINSTER WHO: Congressman McGovern; State Rep. Natalie Higgins; Martha Assefa, Worcester Food Policy Council; and local school and community leaders WHAT: Congressman Assists With Breakfast Service to Students WHERE: Spanish American Center, 24 State Street, Leominster 10:00AM – 11:00AM in ATHOL WHO: Rep. McGovern; Heather Bialecki-Canning, Executive Director for North Quabbin Community Coalition; Lisa Damon, Western Mass Director for Mass Farm to School; Martha Assefa, Worcester Food Policy Council; and local school and community leaders. WHAT: Congressman Hosts Roundtable on Improving Summer Meals Access for Rural Communities WHERE: Athol Community Elementary School, 1064 Pleasant Street, Athol 11:45AM – 12:15PM in GREENFIELD WHO: Congressman McGovern; State Rep. Paul Mark, and local school and community leaders WHAT: Congressman Assists With Lunch Service to Students WHERE: Oaks Court, 1 Elm Terrace, Greenfield 2:00PM – 2:30PM in WORCESTER WHO: Congressman McGovern and local school and community leaders. WHAT: Congressman Assists With Lunch Service to Students WHERE: Main South Club, 65 Tainer Street, Worcester 3:00PM – 4:00PM in WORCESTER WHO: Congressman McGovern and local school and community leaders. WHAT: Congressman Hosts Roundtable on Helping Summer Meals Programs Reach Teen Students WHERE: Shine Pool, 184 Providence Street, Worcester 4:10PM – 5:00PM in WORCESTER WHO: Congressman McGovern and local school and community leaders. WHAT: Congressman Assists With Meal Service to Students WHERE: Shine Pool, 184 Providence Street, Worcester ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks at today’s hearing entitled, The Next Farm Bill: Pathways to Success for SNAP Households. Congressman McGovern criticized House Republicans for their budget’s $10 billion cut to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which helps millions of families put food on the table every year. Click here for video of today’s hearing. “I know it's become convenient for some to look at SNAP as an ATM machine to pay for other things, but SNAP is a vital, important program that millions of families rely on to put food on the table. And it's not a particularly generous benefit. The average benefit is about $1.40 per person per meal. You can't even buy a cup of coffee for that. That's why many SNAP recipients end up at food banks at the end of the month. “Yes, we need to figure out ways to help get people to be secure and have a job. We're all for work. But understand one thing – 67 percent of the people on this program are not expected to work or cannot work. They're children. They're senior citizens. They're people who are disabled. “Of those who can work, a majority work. And let's get that on the record. I'm tired of the perception that everyone on SNAP is lazy or doesn't want to work. The fact is, the majority of them that are able to, do work. If we're talking about how we can help transition people who can work into the workforce, we need to understand that you don't do it by cutting the program by $10 billion. When we talk about things like ‘the cliff,’ it's not just SNAP. It includes things like housing, it includes daycare. “Being poor in this country is hard work. And I would like to think that we would recognize that. And this budget that was unveiled today, does not. And by the way, not only are there cuts in SNAP, we see cuts in things like Pell grants. You want children of SNAP families to be able to have a future? One thing you don't do is cut their education benefits. “If this is the budget and this is what we're going to see in the Farm Bill, a cut of $10 billion, then I predict right here and now that we will not have a Farm Bill. And I will certainly do everything I can to kill a Farm Bill that has a $10 billion cut in it.” Click here for video of today’s hearing. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks: “This is our 23rd hearing on SNAP. And I just read the Republican budget, where there is a proposal out there for a $10 billion cut in SNAP. Ten billion dollars. “In the last Farm Bill, there were savings of $104 billion and $92 billion came from SNAP. I know it's become convenient for some to look at SNAP as an ATM machine to pay for other things, but SNAP is a vital, important program that millions of families rely on to put food on the table. And it's not a particularly generous benefit. “The average benefit is about $1.40 per person per meal. You can't even buy a cup of coffee for that. That's why many SNAP recipients end up at food banks at the end of the month. “Yes, we need to figure out ways to help get people to be secure and have a job. We're all for work. But understand one thing – 67 percent of the people on this program are not expected to work or cannot work. They're children. They're senior citizens. They're people who are disabled. “Of those who can work, a majority work. And let's get that on the record. I'm tired of the perception that everyone on SNAP is lazy or doesn't want to work. The fact is, the majority of them that are able to, do work. The question is, why do they earn such low wages? Why does work pay so little in this country? “Of those who are not working, who we believe are able to work, we need to explore this population. This able-bodied adults without dependents policy - where if you don't have a job within three months, or you don't have a work training program, you lose your benefits for three years. Well, that population is complicated. And I've come to understand that in that population, there are the chronically homeless, the people who can't read, we include kids who are aging out of foster care, we have people with undiagnosed mental illnesses, and now a lot of veterans are falling into that category. “I'd like to ask unanimous consent to insert into the record an article that appeared in the Washington Post, on May 22, that talks about one Navy veteran who was thrown off the benefit because he couldn't get work within the prescribed period of time, who was living off of squirrels that he was skinning and eating. That was his only source of food because he lost his SNAP benefit. “I point this out because, if we're talking about how we can help transition people who can work into the workforce, we need to understand that you don't do it by cutting the program by 10 billion dollars. When we talk about things like "the cliff," it's not just SNAP. It includes things like housing, it includes daycare, it includes a lot of things that are not part of what this committee has jurisdiction over. “The perception in Washington about SNAP and about those who receive the benefit does not reflect the reality. And yeah, we can find people that abuse the program, I'm sure. And I'm sure we can find people that ought to be in a job and are not, but the vast majority of people in this program, I think, would prefer not to be. Being poor in this country is hard work. And I would like to think that we would recognize that. And this budget that was unveiled today, does not. And by the way, not only are there cuts in SNAP, we see cuts in things like Pell grants. You want children of SNAP families to be able to have a future? One thing you don't do is cut their education benefits. “I appreciate the chair's indulgence, but I am really angry at this budget. I will just say one final thing. If this is the budget and this is what we're going to see in the Farm Bill, a cut of 10 billion dollars - I think that may even be a floor, not a ceiling - then I predict right here and now that we will not have a Farm Bill. And I will certainly do everything I can to kill a Farm Bill that has a 10 billion dollar cut in it.” ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) applauded the recognition of St. Pierre Manufacturing, a Worcester-based company which represented Massachusetts at today’s White House Made in America event. St. Pierre Manufacturing was founded in 1920 by Henry St. Pierre as a tire chain making facility in Worcester, Massachusetts. Today, in addition to still making tire chains and industrial chains, the company is best known for its premier horseshoe sets. “I want to offer my congratulations to everyone at St. Pierre Manufacturing for being chosen to represent Massachusetts at today’s event. I’m glad to see a strong Worcester manufacturer getting the recognition they deserve for being a true-blue made-in-America company that’s been family-owned and operated for generations,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “St. Pierre is a great example of the robust manufacturing industry in Central Massachusetts. I am proud to support our region’s great manufacturers and look forward to continuing to work with our local business and community leaders to ensure they have the resources they need to continue to create good jobs and help grow our economy for years to come.” ###
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) applauded passage of his bipartisan provision to honor “atomic veterans,” service members exposed to radiation during U.S. nuclear weapons tests. The amendment was offered to H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act and co-sponsored by Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN). It passed the House today by a unanimous vote of 424-0. Click here to view video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. “Today I am pleased the House passed our bipartisan amendment to finally honor Atomic Veterans, true American heroes who bravely served our country and were exposed to radiation during U.S. nuclear weapons tests. Honoring these veterans and their families is long overdue and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the right thing and join us in recognizing their service. “Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. Now known as Atomic Veterans, these GIs were placed in extremely dangerous areas and were constantly exposed to potentially dangerous levels of radiation in performance of their duties. They were sworn to secrecy, unable to even talk to their doctors about their past exposure to radiation. “Thankfully, Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush recognized the Atomic Veterans’ valiant service, and acted to provide specialized care and compensation for their harrowing duty. “Tragically, more than 75 percent of Atomic Veterans have already passed away, never having received this recognition. They served honorably and kept a code of silence that most certainly led to many of these veterans passing away all too soon.” Click here to view video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “This amendment would simply create a service medal to be awarded to Atomic Veterans or their surviving family members in honor of their service and sacrifice to our nation. “Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. Now known as Atomic Veterans, these GIs were placed in extremely dangerous areas and were constantly exposed to potentially dangerous levels of radiation in performance of their duties. They were sworn to secrecy, unable to even talk to their doctors about their past exposure to radiation. “Thankfully, Presidents Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush recognized the Atomic Veterans’ valiant service, and acted to provide specialized care and compensation for their harrowing duty. “In 2007, our allies Great Britain, New Zealand and Australia enacted their versions of this amendment by authorizing a medal to honor their Atomic Veterans who served with the United States. “Regrettably, the Pentagon remains silent on honoring the service of our Atomic Veterans, arguing that to do so would diminish the service of other military personnel who are tasked with dangerous missions. This is a pitiful excuse. “Tragically, more than 75 percent of Atomic Veterans have already passed away, never having received this recognition. They served honorably and kept a code of silence that most certainly led to many of these veterans passing away all too soon. “Past Administrations and Congresses have dealt with the thornier issues of legality and compensation. What remains is recognizing these veterans’ duty, honor and faithful service to our nation. And time is running out. “I call upon all my House colleagues to support this amendment. We owe it to our Veterans to recognize them for their selfless service to our nation.” ###
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat, delivered a blistering rebuke of Speaker Ryan and House Republicans for their refusal to answer the bipartisan call to end the outdated war authorization used by Presidents Obama and Trump. Click here for video of today’s speech. “We are 16 years into the war in Afghanistan, the longest war in American history. The costs are already in the hundreds of billions of dollars. And the human costs to our troops, our veterans and their families have been enormous. Yet, Congress has not taken a single vote, has not taken a single stand, on this war for sixteen years. So, in the absence of debating an updated AUMF for Afghanistan, the very least we can do is debate whether we will, once again, escalate our military footprint in Afghanistan. “Congress has to stop kicking the can down the road. It is unconscionable that the Republican leadership continues to prevent meaningful debate on these wars. Both Democrats and Republicans keep bringing these issues up because it’s our job. The American people sent us to Washington to debate the uncomfortable issues and to take the difficult votes. “There are some in Congress who think it’s acceptable to give this Administration a blank check to continue these endless wars. Why anybody, no matter who’s president, but especially with this president, would feel comfortable giving the White House a blank check for war, is beyond my comprehension. “We need to debate these wars. And if that’s a debate you’d rather not have – if that’s a vote that you would rather not take – then you should look for a new job. You should go into a different vocation. “Protecting the lives and well-being of our uniformed men and women is one of the highest priorities of Congress. But they deserve more than a thank-you on Veterans Day. “We do not respect their service and sacrifice and that of their families when we refuse to debate and take any responsibility for sending them year after year into war. They deserve a thoughtful, reasoned, and engaged debate. They deserve a debate. They deserve a little attention. Not excuses and not more reports. And not more ‘we’ll get to it in the future.’ “That is why, along with many of my Republican and Democrat colleagues, we will continue to demand that the Republican leadership of this House allow a debate and vote on the future of these wars. “I have been raising this issue, not just when Republicans are president, but when Democrats have been president. I really believe that Congress has forfeited its Constitutional responsibilities. We have acquiesced, time and time again to Democratic and Republican administrations when it comes to war. We can’t allow that to happen. That’s not responsible governing. We have an obligation to make sure that whatever we’re doing with regard to our military, that it is the right thing to do. “We should be ashamed of this process. There’s no justifying shutting out debate on war.” Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Remarks: As Prepared for Delivery Opening Statement “Last night, the majority on the House Rules Committee once again decided to exclude from debate 230 amendments to H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act. This means that half of the amendments submitted to Rules were rejected. “I can never understand why these amendments are denied the chance to be debated by the full House. “When I first came to Capitol Hill as an aide to our former friend and colleague, Congressman Joe Moakley, the defense authorization bill would often take up a week of debate. “Even back then, it was one of the largest and most complex bills debated, and certainly one of the most important from a national security point of view. “The NDAA rule was also structured back then, but more in terms of the amount of time permitted for debate. And many, many amendments received one hour, half an hour, 20 minutes, even 2 hours of debate. Why? Because they were about the important decisions and priorities facing our national defense policy at the time. “But that’s not the case today. Amendments are lucky to get 10 minutes of debate, equally divided, if they are lucky enough to be debated at all. And the defense bill takes up a total of maybe two days’ worth of debate, if that. “No wonder Members are frustrated by this process. “This year, like every year for the past several years, important issues – especially on war and peace – were left on the chopping block by the Republicans. “They decided the House should not debate two bipartisan amendments that would make sure that nothing in the NDAA could be construed as authorization to use force against the Governments of North Korea or Syria. “The Republican majority decided it’s okay to debate a bigoted amendment that prohibits medical treatment for transgender service members who are in transition – but they will not let the House debate an amendment that just calls for a study – a STUDY, M. Speaker – on blood donations from gay men. “Did you know there’s a provision in the NDAA that sets up an entire new military Service Branch – the Space Corps? The Pentagon doesn’t want it. The Air Force doesn’t want it. They say it’s premature. But an amendment by Mr. Turner to require the Pentagon to report on the need to establish a Space Corps is NOT included in this Rule. I guess the Republican leadership doesn’t want the House to have a say and debate such a major change. “Mr. Amash led a bipartisan amendment to block the sale of cluster munitions to Saudi Arabia. Last year, this amendment failed by just a handful of votes. I guess that’s why the Republicans on the Rules Committee aren’t about to let it come up for debate and a vote this year. “And when it comes to sending our uniformed women and men into war, into danger, where their very lives are at risk, the Rules Committee decided that such amendments were not worth the House’s time to debate. “Last night, Republicans on the Rules Committee denied the opportunity for debate on a bipartisan amendment offered by myself and Representatives Walter Jones, Barbara Lee, Thomas Massie, John Garamendi, Dan Kildee and Peter Welch. “The amendment is very straightforward – if the President decides to increase the level of U.S. troops deployed to Afghanistan in FY 2018, then he would report to Congress on the purpose and mission of those troops, how many were required and how long they would be there. And then Congress would vote to approve or disapprove that escalation. “This would give the American people the voice they deserve when it comes tosending our men and women in uniform into battle. “The President and General Mattis just decided to send an additional 4,000 troops to Afghanistan to fight the Taliban, on top of the 8,400 U.S. troops already there. That will bring the total number of American troops there to more than 12,000. “If they should decide that they want even MORE troops in Afghanistan in FY 2018, Congress should know why and vote on it. “We can’t keep giving the Administration a blank check, and allow America, once again, to go down the “slippery slope” of incremental escalation over the next year or two. Congress needs to step up to the plate and either approve or disapprove any renewed escalation in Afghanistan. “Isn’t that amendment worth debating? Even if just for 10 minutes? “We are in Year Sixteen of the war in Afghanistan. “It is the longest war in American history. “Let me repeat that, M. Speaker – Afghanistan is the longest war in U.S. history. “The costs are already in the hundreds of billions of dollars. “And the human costs to our troops, our veterans and their families have been enormous. “And yet, Congress has not taken a single vote, has not taken a single stand, on this war for sixteen years. “Most of the members of this House weren’t even here when that one and only vote was taken. “So, in the absence of debating an updated AUMF for Afghanistan, the very least we can do is debate whether we will, once again, escalate our military footprint in Afghanistan. “But the Republican leadership of this House doesn’t agree. “Each year, the Republican leadership does everything it can to stop any debate on these wars. And this year, is no different. They’ll allow some amendments on reports and a sense of Congress here and there. But any amendment of substance, that requires Congress to act, is denied. “M. Speaker, I have no problem with a report. But it won’t be the first time we’ve seen a report – whether on Afghanistan, or Iraq, or Syria. Even the underlying bill calls for a strategy report on Afghanistan and other conflicts. “But Congress avoiding taking any responsibility for continuing to send our service men and women into harm’s way is absolutely shameful. It’s cowardice. “Every day, military families say good-bye to their loved ones as they go into battle, placing themselves in harm’s way to keep our country safe. “And Congress does nothing. “All we do here is kick the can down the road, and call for another report – and then another report. “We don’t even act when the President actually does send us an AUMF, the way President Obama did on Iraq and Syria and the war against ISIS. The Republican leadership complained that they didn’t like it. But they never even tried to act on it or write an AUMF of their own. “They’d rather just stand on the sidelines, complain and criticize. But do nothing. Absolutely nothing. Except stop any other Member from taking any action that might require the House to debate these wars. “Shame on us all for allowing this to continue. Over and over and over again. “I’m guessing that whenever the House takes up the defense appropriations bill, the Republican leaders will find a way to make sure that the bipartisan-supported provision in that bill to sunset the 2001 AUMF on Afghanistan and vote on a new one within 8 months will somehow disappear without a single Member of the House-at-large having the chance to vote on it. “Maybe we’ll get another report. “And so it goes, on and on. “There is nearly $700 billion authorized in this bill for wars, for weapons systems, for military equipment and personnel – all because Congress refuses to make hard choices. “We can never seem to find the money to take care of our own neighborhoods and schools. “We can’t find the money to provide our citizens with better, more affordable health care, or make sure all of our families can put food on the table. “We don’t invest nearly enough in our roads, bridges, railways and transit systems. “There’s never enough money to invest in a 21st Century manufacturing base, provide training to support the jobs of the future, or raise the federal minimum wage to a livable wage. “We’re told that we don’t have the money to take care of our parks, or make sure our air and water are drinkable and breathable. “We can’t even seem to find the money to take care of our seniors or our children. “But when it comes to spending for war or building more nuclear weapons, then magically, we seem to find trillions of dollars to authorize and spend. “We need to pay more attention to the choices we make each year on how much spending our nation really requires for its national defense. “I believe Congress needs to debate and vote on whether to keep sending more and more of our military men and women to fight in endless wars. “I urge my colleagues to reject this limited rule and the underlying bill.” Closing Statement “Congress must stop kicking the can down the road. “It is unconscionable that the Republican leadership continues to prevent meaningful debate on these wars. “But let me say one thing about why our House colleagues – Democrats and Republicans alike – keep bring these issues up: it’s because it’s our job. “The American people sent us to Washington to debate the uncomfortable issues and to take the difficult votes. “There are some in Congress who think it’s acceptable to give this Administration a blank check to continue these endless wars. “There are others who would like to end them and bring our service men and women home. “And there are others who look for a different policy somewhere between these two positions. “This is why we need to debate these wars. This is why we need to bring updated AUMFs to the House floor for a vote. “And if that’s a debate you’d rather not have. If that’s a vote you’d rather not take. Then, M. Speaker, you should look for a new job. “I’m sure that I speak for all my colleagues when I say that protecting the lives and well-being of our uniformed men and women is one of the highest priorities of Congress. “But they deserve more than a thank-you on Veterans Day. “We do not respect their service and sacrifice and that of their families when we refuse to debate and take any responsibility for sending them year after year into war. “They deserve a thoughtful, reasoned and engaged debate. “And that is why, along with many of my Republican and Democrat colleagues, we will continue to demand that the Republican leadership of this House allow a debate and vote on the future of these wars.” “I have been raising this issue, not just when Republicans are president, but when Democrats have been president. I really believe that Congress has forfeited its Constitutional responsibilities. We have abrogated our Constitutional responsibilities. We have acquiesced, time and time again to Democratic and Republican administrations when it comes to war. We can’t allow that to happen. That’s not responsible governing. And we have an obligation to make sure that whatever we’re doing with regard to our military, that it is the right thing to do. “The idea that we once again, come to the floor with the National Defense Authorization bill and we’re told we can’t debate any of these things? We can’t vote on any of these things? Give me a break. What are you thinking? Why is this such a difficult thing to overcome with the leadership? Again, if my friends don’t want to take uncomfortable votes, then do something else. But it’s not the right thing to do. We should be ashamed of this process. There’s no justifying shutting out debate on war. ###
07.06.2017	LEOMINSTER, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat representing much of Central Massachusetts, met with local seniors across Leominster to hear about a wide range of issues seniors care about – including proposed cuts to Medicare and Medicaid as well as Social Security funding and immigration. Congressman also discussed his efforts to stop the Republican health bill and the devastating effect it would have on Massachusetts seniors. Congressman McGovern was joined by State Rep. Natalie Higgins today for visits with seniors at Sunset Towers, Life Care Center, Summit Elder Center, Manor on the Hill, Benchmark Senior Living, and Sunrise of Leominster. Click here for high resolution photos. “Today I heard from seniors here in Central Massachusetts who are worried about losing access to healthcare and so many of the essential services they depend on,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Taking healthcare away from our seniors just to give tax breaks to millionaires is cruel and wrong. But that’s exactly what the Senate Republican health bill would do. It’s heartbreaking to think that this is even a possibility in the richest country in the world. Today I pledged to our seniors that when I return to Congress next week, I will make sure their voices are heard and we stop this terrible bill. America is better than this.” GOP HEALTH BILL WILL HURT SENIORS Medicaid covers 64 percent of nursing home residents and the Senate Republican health bill would cut Medicaid by nearly $800 billion. Over 50 million Medicare beneficiaries would pay a higher Part B premium. Senate bill would cause Medicare to become bankrupt 2 years earlier in 2026, which could result in deep Medicare cuts to keep the program solvent. 74 million Americans depend on Medicaid. Millions of Baby Boomers will be turning 80 about the same time that the GOP health bill’s drastic cuts to Medicaid will kick in. For 65 percent of seniors in nursing homes, Medicaid is their primary support. Americans aged 50-64 would be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage, no matter how healthy they are. The life of the Medicare Trust Fund would be shortened and the Senate health bill ransacks funds that seniors depend on to get the long-term care they need. ###
07.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL), co-chairs of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Tom Rooney (R-FL) led a bipartisan letter this week calling on President Trump to delay lifting sanctions on Sudan. This comes one week before the July 12th deadline when the U.S. must make a decision on the sanctions. Click here to view the letter online. In January 2017, President Obama issued Executive Order 13761, which provides temporary relief from many U.S. sanctions against Sudan that have been in effect for 20 years. Today’s letter calls for a delay in sanctions relief for one year or until the Trump Administration has fully staffed the State Department and National Security Council and named a Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan who can conduct a thorough and objective review. The lawmakers specifically cite unimpeded humanitarian access and cessation of hostilities in Sudan as key priorities where progress must be made for sanctions relief to be considered. “Our bipartisan letter to President Trump sends a strong message that both Democrats and Republicans believe America must stand up for human rights and hold Sudan accountable. I was deeply disappointed that President Obama eased sanctions on Sudan when there has been little to no progress in the human rights and humanitarian crises there,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “Today we are urging President Trump not to continue the mistaken policy. America must stand up for human rights and clearly condemn the brutal and corrupt practices of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir.” “At our April Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission hearing on Sudan and sanctions, we heard first-hand from experts who were troubled by the negative consequences that could follow by prematurely lifting sanctions on this repressive regime,” Congressman Randy Hultgren (R-IL) said. “This bi-partisan letter reaffirms Congressional commitment to ensure Sudan improves its human rights record before the United States lifts sanctions.” “I did not support this executive order when it was issued by the Obama Administration and I don’t believe the actions of the Sudanese government warrant any sanctions relief at this time,” Congressman Tom Rooney (R-FL) said. “The reality is that violence and displacement at the hands of government forces still persists in Sudan, and there has been no credible, widespread evidence of increased humanitarian access to the abused populations.” BIPARTISAN PRIORITIES FOR U.S.-SUDAN POLICY The bipartisan letter highlights key priorities that must be achieved and carefully considered before the U.S. provides sanctions relief to Sudan. The U.S. State Department, National Security Council, and Special Envoy to Sudan and South Sudan must more thoroughly review whether the Government of Sudan has abided by the requirements of the Executive Order 13761. The Executive Order requires progress from Sudan on five tracks of U.S.-Sudan engagement, including three key priorities: 1) Sudan’s commitment to a cessation of hostilities; 2) Unimpeded humanitarian access to regions under siege by the Sudan Armed Forces; and 3) Cooperation on counterterrorism. Providing sanctions relief while clear evidence remains that Sudan is supporting violent non-state armed groups, like the former combatants of the Islamist group, Seleka, the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), and other similar violent actors operating in northern and central Africa, the Middle East and neighboring countries would only reward such actions. Without strong sanctions to hold Sudan accountable, Sudan will likely continue to expand its financial and logistical support to illegal armed groups on the African continent – something that certainly represents a threat to our national security and interests on that continent. Relieving Sudan of sanctions – without having a new phase of engagement in place, along with new, targeted pressures – will not increase our leverage but rather weaken it while empowering a genocidal regime with additional capacity to acquire more military equipment, train more soldiers to commit more war crimes. By delaying the July 12th deadline, the U.S. government will ensure it has the proper personnel in place and the time and resources to review Sudan’s compliance with the executive order. Ultimately, such a review will pave the way for a more constructive relationship with Sudan that is in the best interest of the United States and the long-suffering people of Sudan. Joining McGovern and the leaders of the bipartisan letter to President Trump on Sudan are U.S. Representatives Michael Capuano (D-MA) and Christopher Smith (R-NJ) – Co-Chairs of the Sudan/South Sudan Caucus and Representatives Joe Crowley (D-NY), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Richard Neal (D-MA), Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Daniel Donovan, Jr. (R-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Glenn Grothman (R-WI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Lou Barletta (R-PA), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Chris Stewart (R-UT), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Charles Dent (R-PA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Gus Bilirakis (R-FL), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Donald Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Peter Welch (D-VT), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Norma Torres (D-CA), Nita Lowey (D-NY), David Cicilline (D-RI), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Chellie Pingree (D-MN), Michael Doyle (D-PA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Matt Cartwirght (D-PA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Nydia Velázquez (D-NY), and Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). Click here to view the letter online Full Text of Bipartisan Sudan Letter is Below: June 30, 2017 Donald J. Trump President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, As you are aware, President Obama issued Executive Order 13761 in January, just one week before your inauguration, which provides temporary relief from many U.S. sanctions against Sudan that have been in effect for 20 years. On or around July 12, 2017, you are called upon to determine whether that temporary relief should be maintained or be made permanent. We write to request that you delay lifting these sanctions for one year or until your Administration has been able to fully staff the Department of State and National Security Council, and you have named a Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan. Once in place, this team should more thoroughly review whether the Government of Sudan has abided by the requirements of the Executive Order. At this point in time, we believe that the evidence is unavailable or inconclusive to reach a determination, in particular on the two tracks that most affect the Sudanese people, namely unimpeded humanitarian access and cessation of hostilities. The Executive Order requires progress from Sudan on five tracks of U.S.-Sudan engagement. We are particularly concerned about progress – or lack thereof – on three of the tracks: Sudan’s commitment to a cessation of hostilities, unimpeded humanitarian access to regions under siege by the Sudan Armed Forces, and cooperation on counterterrorism. There has been substantial fighting in Darfur in recent months, including evidence of targeting of civilians by Sudanese armed forces and their affiliated militias and, as expected, no humanitarian access has been granted to South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, and only limited access to Darfur. While the Sudanese government may seem cooperative on counterterrorism efforts, we believe they continue regularly scheduled support for violent non-state armed groups, like the former combatants of the Islamist group, Seleka, the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA), and other similar violent actors operating in northern and central Africa, the Middle East and neighboring countries. As you may recall, Sudan housed Osama bin Laden, was found guilty of supporting al-Qaeda’s bombing of the USS Cole in 2000, and the U.S. embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998. To reward Sudan with this prize will reflect on American credibility and resolve to confront the perpetrators of war crimes and sponsors of terrorism. It should be an action taken very carefully and only after thorough, objective review. Should the U.S. allow sanctions relief to become permanent in July, we are deeply concerned that Sudan will continue to expand its financial and logistical support to illegal armed groups on the African continent – something that certainly represents a threat to our national security and interests on that continent. The Sudan government has one of the worst human rights records in the world. Over the past thirty years, President Omar al-Bashir has presided over the murder and violent displacement of millions of Sudanese people. Since June 2011, the Sudanese government has targeted civilians in Darfur, the Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile State by dropping over 5,000 thousand bombs on innocent people in villages, schools, hospitals and churches. In addition, the Sudanese President and two of his top officials are wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes and crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide in Darfur. This gives Bashir the dubious distinction of being the only sitting head of state to ever be indicted for war crimes. While we welcome stronger U.S. engagement with Sudan, relieving Sudan of sanctions – without having a new phase of engagement in place, along with new, targeted pressures – will not increase our leverage but rather weaken it while empowering a genocidal regime with additional capacity to acquire more military equipment, train more soldiers to commit more war crimes and further its support for groups like the ex-Seleka. We need look no further than the regime’s demolition of two Christian churches in Khartoum this year, and their plans to bulldoze at least 27 more. This is state-sanctioned persecution of Christians and the denial of freedom of religion –something the original sanctions imposed by Executive Order since 1997 were designed to target. In addition, before the announcement of a cease-fire by the Sudan government last year, ostensibly in response to the five-track process, the Sudan military took over several large farming areas in the conflict zones, in order to strategically starve the besieged civilian population. U.S. sanctions were imposed for the purpose of curbing actions such as these, and changes to policy and the sanctions regimen must ensure that they do not condone or institutionalize them, let alone reward them. Further, it is troubling that we have seen both little change in the behavior of the Sudanese government and no indication that its behavior is likely to change if sanctions are lifted. For 30 years, this regime has manipulated the international community by pausing violence when it sees a benefit in doing so. However, these periods during which military attacks against civilians decrease have never become permanent. More time is needed to assess whether the current diminishment (as it is not a cessation) of offensive military operations is permanent or merely a strategic ceasefire that benefits the regime. By delaying the July 12th deadline, the U.S. government will ensure it has the proper personnel in place and the time and resources to review Sudan’s compliance with the executive order. Ultimately, such a review will pave the way for a more constructive relationship with Sudan that is in the best interest of the United States and the long-suffering people of Sudan. Sincerely, ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice speaking out against the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, released the following statement on the release by Senate Republicans of their secret Trumpcare legislation: “Today Senate Republicans finally revealed their secret Trumpcare bill that they’ve been hiding behind closed doors and it’s truly shameful. President Trump, himself, called the House Republican bill ‘mean’ and now we’re seeing the Senate bill is just as cruel. “The Senate’s Trumpcare bill, just like the bill rammed through the House, would rip health care away from millions of Americans, strip protections for people with pre-existing conditions, make devastating cuts to Medicaid, take funding away from fighting the opioid crisis, and let insurance companies charge seniors five times more for coverage than younger Americans. All to give giant tax breaks to corporations and the richest people in our country. It’s no wonder Senate Republicans kept this bill a secret for so long. “Every single Republican should be forced to answer one question: Why do the rich deserve a tax cut more than millions of hardworking Americans deserve health care? “This is a heartless proposal that will hurt veterans, rural communities, seniors, women, and millions of families in Massachusetts and across the country. What Republicans are doing is reprehensible and I can promise them that millions of Americans who would be hurt by this bill will not be silent.” “Healthcare ought to be a right in this country, not a privilege. Taking healthcare away from those who need it most to give a tax break to those who need it least is the very definition of cruel. We are going to fight like hell to stop this heartless bill.” ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) introduced a new bill in the House of Representatives to help patients who are undergoing chemotherapy. Most private insurance plans already cover wigs for those undergoing treatment that causes hair loss. The bill would help cancer patients on Medicare, who are undergoing treatments, to pay for wigs not currently covered. “Every cancer patient deserves access to quality healthcare that will help them undergo treatment with the support and dignity they need. For cancer patients who experience hair loss, a wig can mean so much, but is not always covered by their insurance,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “This bill will help to change that and ensure that every cancer patient who loses their hair can afford a wig and undergo treatment with the dignity and respect they deserve. I urge all of my colleagues in Congress to support this important bill.” Congressman McGovern’s bill was inspired by a meeting with Mary Aframe, who runs the Women’s Image Center located in Worcester and Leominster. The Women’s Image Center helps promote confidence in women undergoing image changes related to cancer treatment. Aframe has worked tirelessly to help raise awareness about the many women undergoing chemotherapy who have trouble affording wigs. Aframe said she has heard from many women who are looking for a wig due to hair loss after cancer treatment – specifically breast cancer. Many are on Medicare and struggle to afford a wig, sometimes even choosing different treatment paths to avoid hair loss. According to the National Cancer Institute, nearly 40 percent of men and women will be diagnosed with cancer at some point. Nationally, expenditures for cancer care totaled nearly $125 billion in 2010. In 2017 alone, Massachusetts is expected to see 37,000 new cases of cancer, according to the American Cancer Society. “This bill is so desperately needed. A wig is not only medically necessary as a part of a woman's physical recovery, but also for the emotional recovery that comes with going through cancer treatment, said Mary Aframe. “Feeling confident in your new skin during and post treatment is paramount to overcoming the challenges and changes women face after a cancer diagnosis” Most private insurance plans already cover wigs for patients undergoing cancer treatments. Congressman McGovern’s bill would re-categorize wigs as durable medical equipment to allow Medicare to provide coverage if a doctor certifies that they are medically necessary. Wigs can cost thousands of dollars and are out of reach for many patients without help from their insurance provider. The new bill, H.R. 2925, has been referred to the House Committees on Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means, where it awaits further consideration. ###
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on U.S.-Cuba policy, released the following statement on the U.S.-Cuba policy changes expected to be announced by President Trump. “Americans are ready for a 21st century approach to Cuba. These policy changes by President Trump will only take us back toward a Cold War policy that was a miserable failure and held our country back for more than 50 years. “President Trump’s reckless and backward Cuba policy will hurt American farmers, businesses and airlines. It will limit opportunities for our universities as well as medical and environmental researchers. It does nothing to strengthen human rights and will weaken our countries’ security cooperation to counter narcotics, human trafficking, migration, and the apprehension of fugitives. “Americans across the country, both Republicans and Democrats, strongly support the progress made by the new U.S.-Cuba policy begun by President Obama. This includes a clear majority of Cuban-Americans who want to see us continue to build on the progress we’ve achieved. “President Trump’s refusal to listen to the calls of business leaders and the American people to continue to strengthen U.S.-Cuba relations is simply stunning. President Trump is caving to the demands of a handful of hardliners in Congress and this will only bolster the position of hardliners in Cuba. “America has a responsibility to lead on the world stage and I will continue to work with a bipartisan coalition in Congress to finally end the outdated restrictions on Americans who want to travel to Cuba and end the U.S. embargo against Cuba once and for all. We must look forward, not back. Now is the time to lead.” Congressman McGovern traveled to Cuba with President Obama in March 2016, with Secretary Kerry in August 2015, and with a bipartisan delegation in February 2017 in support of the normalization of U.S.-Cuba relations and ending the outdated Cold War policy of isolation. Congressman McGovern introduced bipartisan legislation this year to end restrictions on U.S. citizens traveling to Cuba. In the 114th Congress, Congressman McGovern launched a bipartisan Cuba Working Group to build on the historic progress already achieved under President Obama’s new policy. Members of the bipartisan Cuba Working Group are supporters of one or more key pieces of legislation introduced in 2015, with Republicans as the lead sponsors. Click here to read more about their work. Public opinion polls in recent years have shown an increasing support to end the Cuban trade embargo and change course on U.S.-Cuba relations. A Pew poll showed 73 percent of Americans, including 59 percent of Republicans favor ending the trade embargo. ###
06.05.2017	WORCESTER, MA – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined business and local leaders at Worcester Regional Airport to celebrate the completion of their 20,000th charter flight. To celebrate the milestone, a charter jet was given a water cannon salute as it taxied to the Aerodrome terminal. “Today I am proud to celebrate Rectrix’s 20,000th flight, Worcester Regional Airport’s continued growth, and the strong partnerships which have made it possible,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Worcester Airport is key to a vibrant and growing Central Massachusetts economy and I have been proud to work with Rectrix and our region’s business and elected leaders every step of the way. I look forward to building on this exciting milestone as Worcester Airport continues to grow and strengthen our region’s economy in the years ahead.” Joining today’s ceremony with Congressman McGovern were Boston Bruin legend Bobby Orr, Worcester Airport Director Andy Davis, Worcester City Manager Ed Augustus and Worcester Chamber President Tim Murray, Rectrix CEO Richard Cawley, Rectrix employees, airport staff and other community leaders to recognize this important aviation achievement for the company. “The entire Rectrix team is so pleased to achieve this milestone and mark the moment here in Worcester. Our Aerodrome facility at ORH has been a source of tremendous growth for us since it opened in late 2015—and designating this airport as our maintenance base-of-operations this past year was indicative of that success,” said Rectrix CEO Richard Cawley. “We are committed to being a partner to Massport and Worcester and look forward to seeing continued success at ORH in the coming years as the airport’s new CAT III instrument landing system comes into operation.” “Rectrix has been and continues to be a strong partner for us to have at Worcester Regional Airport,” said Worcester Airport Director Andy Davis. “They have brought new energy to the airport and stimulated substantial growth, which builds upon the strategic plans we have for the airport’s future and helps to improve the experience for the passengers we serve here every day.” Caption: Left, Congressman McGovern greets pilot who flew 20,000th flight from Worcester Regional Airport. Right, Congressman McGovern delivers remarks celebrating the milestone. ###
05.30.2017	WORCESTER, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and local leaders celebrated National Bike Month with the installation of a new exhibit highlighting Worcester’s bicycle history and a new bicycle repair station. This exhibit is similar in construction and purpose to those being installed in the new Blackstone Heritage Corridor Visitor Center. Joining today’s event were Megan DiPrete, Blackstone River Heritage Corridor Executive Director; Worcester City Councilor George Russell; and leaders from the National Park Service and Holy Cross as well as neighbors and bike enthusiasts. “With the opening of this bike repair station it will be that much easier and more fun for residents from across the region to enjoy the miles of bike trails in and around my district,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. “And of course, while folks are enjoying themselves riding through Worcester, now they have the opportunity to learn about the important role Worcester played in bicycle manufacturing and to learn about world champion bicycle racer Marshall ‘Major’ Taylor who came to Worcester in 1895. “I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to the National Park Service and the Greater Worcester Community Foundation for funding this project, and to the Blackstone Heritage Corridor for the staff coordination needed to make this project a reality,” McGovern added. “As someone who loves history and getting out in the fresh air, for me, this is an exciting addition to the Worcester landscape. I can’t wait to use the bike path to ride to the new Blackstone Heritage Corridor Visitor Center at Worcester that is currently under construction and scheduled to open next year.” The new exhibit will help visitors to learn about the region’s history as well as providing necessary tools for bike maintenance and repair. The wayside exhibit will introduce the public to Worcester’s history of biking and the ever-growing network of bike paths. This will serve as a pilot to a long-range plan to create a number of such stations along the bikeway that support safe biking and highlights the history and ecology of the Blackstone River Heritage Corridor. The Cycling/Repair station provides basic tools, a tire pump, and advice on prepping your bike for a safe ride. The colorful Exhibit is created from 2-inch COR-TEN steel, uses evocative images, and explores the history of biking in the Worcester area since the late 1800s. It also includes a life-size silhouette of trailblazing African-American athlete Marshall W. "Major" Taylor, 1899 world cycling champion, on a high wheel bike who looks like he may spring to life during the unveiling! The Blackstone Heritage Corridor is also spearheading the addition of over racks for about 115 bicycles and three repair stations in nine communities in the National Heritage Corridor. ###
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Tom Emmer (R-MN) and U.S. Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) reintroduced H.R. 2754, the Atomic Veterans Service Medal Act, a bipartisan and bicameral bill that would authorize the award of a military service medal to members of the Armed Forces who were exposed to ionizing radiation as a result of participation in the testing of nuclear weapons or under other circumstances. Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. These GIs became known as the Atomic Veterans. They were placed in extremely dangerous areas and constantly exposed to radiation in performance of their duties. Sworn to secrecy, they could not even speak of their service. Presidents George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton recognized their valiant service, and acted to provide specialized care and compensation for their harrowing duty. “America has a responsibility to honor all of our veterans and the sacrifices they made to serve our country. Tragically, many of these Atomic Veterans have already died, without receiving recognition. They kept a code of silence that likely led to many passing away too soon,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) said. “It is long past time for the Defense Department to honor their unique service with a medal recognizing all that they and their families have done to keep us safe. This bipartisan bill will help us to finally right this wrong and I urge Congress to pass it.” “Our veterans are the best our nation has to offer,” said Congressman Tom Emmer (R-Minn.). “They dedicate their lives and sacrifice so much to protect our freedoms and liberties, so the least we can do is show them our immense gratitude. Unfortunately, we have since lost many of our Atomic Veterans, but I am honored to work with Congressman McGovern and Senator Markey to ensure these brave soldiers get the recognition they deserve.” “As part of our country’s nuclear program, hundreds of thousands of brave U.S. servicemembers – our Atomic Vets -- participated in atmospheric tests, exposing themselves to grave risks, without true recognition for their sacrifice,” Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) said. “Many of these brave patriots suffered from radiation-related diseases and other health issues. As a nation, we must honor their sacrifice, and this legislation takes an important step in that direction.” Keith Kiefer, the Director of the National Association of Atomic Veterans commented, "The National Association of Atomic Veterans has worked hard to achieve acknowledgement of the consequences of exposure to the invisible bullets of radiation exposure. We thank Congressmen McGoven and Emmer and Senator Markey for spearheading our cause in the 2017 legislative session." Joining Congressmen McGovern and Emmer as original cosponsors of the House bill include Representatives Walter Jones (R-NC), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), and Rick Nolan (D-MN). ###
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) reintroduced the bipartisan Wounded Warrior Service Dog Act in the House of Representatives. The bill, H.R. 2625, would create a competitive grant program for nonprofits that train service dogs for use by veterans. It defines the term “assistance dog” to mean a dog specifically trained to perform physical tasks to mitigate the effects of a disability. This bill authorizes $25 million over the space of five years. “With so many veterans returning from war bearing both physical and emotional scars, we must do all we can to provide treatment that works,” Congressman McGovern said. “I have been honored to work with NEADS and so many other partners to support the extraordinary work they and others are doing to help veterans in need. It is my sincere hope that through this program, we can better connect our veterans with service dogs in an effort to ease their transition into civilian life.” In recent years, Congressman McGovern has made several visits to the nonprofit National Education for Assistance Dog Services (NEADS) campus in Princeton, MA. On these visits, Congressman McGovern has learned about how service dogs are helping to treat veterans with physical disabilities as well as individuals who suffer from post-traumatic stress. Assistance dogs are helping service men and women lead more independent lives, assisting with mobility and balance, retrieving and carrying objects, responding to sounds, getting help, and providing social interaction and companionship. Trained dogs also offer many therapeutic benefits to soldiers and veterans with post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD) by elevating their moods, building confidence, and reducing stress, all of which ease the transition back into civilian life. Through the Appropriations process, this program has already received $11 million over the past three years. With this money, nonprofit groups like NEADS have trained over 200 service dogs and paired them with veterans in need. If passed into law, the Wounded Warrior Service Dog Act would fund this program for the next five years. The Director of Development at NEADS, Cathy Zemaitis, commented, “the Wounded Warriors Service Dog legislation will enable legitimate Service Dog providers the opportunity to better serve the veteran community. This important program will allow veterans with physical disabilities as well as those diagnosed with PTSD realize increased independence and the opportunity to increasingly engage in their community. This legislation will bring about a positive impact on all veterans who require the assistance of a highly trained Service Dog.” The bill has 29 original cosponsors, including U.S. Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC). It has been endorsed by the American Legion and the Animal Welfare Institute. ###
05.24.2017	“Donald Trump dines at Mar-a-Lago with the rich and famous. So I’m not at all shocked by his lack of knowledge about our anti-hunger safety net, or by his lack of interest in helping the most vulnerable in our society. It is clear from his budget – that he doesn’t have a clue." share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) delivered a speech on the House floor slamming President Trump for proposing a budget that proposes devastating cuts to essential anti-poverty programs that help millions of families in need every day. Highlights of Congressman McGovern’s speech are below with full text following. Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech. TRUMP CUTS TO HUNGER PROGRAMS “The Trump Budget decimates the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – known as SNAP – our nation’s first line of defense against hunger. It cuts the program by $193 billion dollars over 10 years – that’s a 25 percent reduction. President Trump makes these ruthless cuts by cutting eligibility and reducing benefits. He also adds a new requirement that states pay 25 percent of the cost of the benefits. “Estimates suggest that in any given month, this proposal would restrict access to SNAP for up to one million Americans struggling to find work. “Kicking people off of SNAP doesn’t help them find a job – it only makes them hungrier, weaker, and even less likely to qualify for work. It’s simply a rotten thing to do. “With a modest food assistance benefit of about $1.40 per person, per meal, SNAP alleviates hunger and reduces poverty. It supplements the food budgets of families and helps them make ends meet. And innovations in the program have helped to spur the consumption of healthier foods. TRUMP IS OUT OF TOUCH “Donald Trump dines at Mar-a-Lago with the rich and famous. He hosts his wealthy friends for dinner parties at Trump Tower. So I’m not at all shocked by his lack of knowledge about our anti-hunger safety net, or by his lack of interest in helping the most vulnerable in our society. It is clear from his budget – that he doesn’t have a clue. NEED TO STRENGTHEN HUNGER PROGRAMS “If we want to talk about reforming SNAP – or about how the program should look in the future – we need to focus on how to make the program even better. We need to make sure anyone who needs modest food assistance benefits has access to them. We need to support and expand innovative programs that help increase the purchasing power of SNAP. And we need to increase SNAP benefits so families who are helped by the program can access more nutritious food that lasts through the month. “I urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting this reckless and heartless proposal that will devastate so many of the families we represent. We must instead support efforts to strengthen SNAP and end hunger now.” Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “Yesterday President Trump released the most reckless and heartless budget I’ve ever seen in my life. It slashes virtually every worthwhile program. “But what I find particularly offensive and troubling – is that this budget is a radical assault on people living in poverty or right on the edge. It guts Medicaid, housing assistance, and Social Security Disability Insurance benefits. “The Trump Budget also decimates the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – known as SNAP – our nation’s first line of defense against hunger. It cuts the program by $193 billion dollars over 10 years – that’s a 25 percent reduction. “President Trump makes these ruthless cuts by cutting eligibility and reducing benefits. He also adds a new requirement that states pay 25 percent of the cost of the benefits. “It may be a nice sound bite to suggest that states should share the cost of providing SNAP benefits to their residents. But the reality is that state budgets are already stretched incredibly thin, and communities are already suffering from a decrease in federal investment in states. The Trump budget compounds this problem by eliminating dozens of programs that families in states across the country rely on. This will only exacerbate the stress on state budgets to deliver basic services to their residents. “If that isn’t bad enough, President Trump would allow states to cut benefit levels to manage the costs they would incur under this cruel budget. This means that families living in certain states would see their already too-modest benefits drop through no fault of their own. “At the same time, President Trump is proposing new fees on retail stores applying to accept SNAP benefits. We know access to food is a huge concern – especially in rural areas and in cities – and such a wrongheaded approach will further limit the ability of families on SNAP to shop for nutritious food. “In addition, President Trump’s budget makes it even more difficult for able bodied adults without dependents to receive modest food benefits. Current law allows states to waive the time limits imposed on these vulnerable adults, but President Trump wants to severely limit the ability of states to request these waivers. Estimates suggest that in any given month, this proposal would restrict access to SNAP for up to one million Americans struggling to find work. “Kicking people off of SNAP doesn’t help them find a job – it only makes them hungrier, weaker, and even less likely to qualify for work. It’s simply a rotten thing to do. “Quite frankly, I was a little surprised by the magnitude of these cuts given the fact that President Trump’s Secretary of Agriculture –Sonny Perdue – testified before the House Agriculture Committee last week in strong defense of SNAP. “He said, ‘We have no proposed changes, you don’t try to fix things that aren’t broken.’ “How are we to trust this administration’s promises on anything, when they tell us one thing on Wednesday and release a budget that does the exact opposite not even a week later? “During the past two years, the House Agriculture Committee has held 21 hearings on SNAP. As the Ranking Member of the Nutrition Subcommittee, I’ve participated in every one of these hearings. “What we’ve learned from our witnesses – both liberal and conservative – is that SNAP works. It is one of the most effective and efficient programs run by the federal government. It expands in times of economic hardship and contracts as our economy recovers. “With a modest food assistance benefit of about $1.40 per person, per meal, SNAP alleviates hunger and reduces poverty. It supplements the food budgets of families and helps them make ends meet. And innovations in the program have helped to spur the consumption of healthier foods. “And I’d like to remind my colleagues two-thirds of people on SNAP are children, seniors, or disabled. The majority of the people who are able to work, do work. “If we want to talk about reforming SNAP – or about how the program should look in the future – we need to focus on how to make the program even better. We need to make sure anyone who needs modest food assistance benefits has access to them. We need to support and expand innovative programs that help increase the purchasing power of SNAP. And we need to increase SNAP benefits so families who are helped by the program can access more nutritious food that lasts through the month. “Donald Trump dines at Mar-a-Lago with the rich and famous. He hosts his wealthy friends for dinner parties at Trump Tower. So I’m not at all shocked by his lack of knowledge about our anti-hunger safety net, or by his lack of interest in helping the most vulnerable in our society. It is clear from his budget – that he doesn’t have a clue. “I urge my colleagues to join me in rejecting this reckless and heartless proposal that will devastate so many of the families we represent. We must instead support efforts to strengthen SNAP and end hunger now.” ###
05.23.2017	“Tax cuts for the wealthiest among us – at the expense of the public safety net – is cruel. It is cold-hearted. These are real people. They are our constituents. They are our neighbors and our friends. They deserve our respect." share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress in the push to strengthen anti-poverty programs, delivered a speech on the House floor today slamming President Trump’s budget as a cruel attack on America’s hardworking families just struggling to get ahead. Click here for Video of Today’s Speech. “This budget makes the deepest cuts to federal programs that help the most vulnerable, the poorest of the poor. These are real people. They are our constituents. They are our neighbors and our friends. “I have to wonder whether some Republicans have ever talked with anyone living in poverty. I would say to them – life is very different when you leave the country club. Life is very different for people struggling in poverty. They work hard, often at more than one job, to put food on the table for their kids, and to put a roof over their heads. They deserve our respect, not the disdain shown to them and to their families in this disgraceful budget. “Poverty and hunger in rural areas is often as bad as – and sometimes even worse – than in cities. So I find it highly offensive that this budget slashes our safety net for the very people President Trump promised to protect – the very people who put President Trump in office. Click here for Video of Today’s Speech “Of those who can work, a majority of them work. But they earn so little that they are still stuck in poverty. Why aren’t we having a debate about increasing wages in this country? Why is the debate on how we make the lives of those in poverty even more miserable? “Budgets are moral documents and this is the most heartless, reckless, and damaging plan I’ve ever seen. It is immoral. The President’s Budget Director talked about ‘compassion’ for taxpayers, and for Trump supporters. “Feeding starving children; helping a mother or father get back on their feet after a job loss; cleaning up poisoned water; ensuring everyone has a chance at living a healthy life, regardless of how much money they have… that is compassion. Not turning our back on these people. “Tax cuts for the wealthiest among us – at the expense of the public safety net – is cruel. It is cold-hearted. I’m sick of it. I assure you it is not compassionate. I hope my Republican colleagues will have the courage to stand up against this Administration and do what is right for the American people.” Included in President Trump’s proposed budget are: • $610 billion in cuts to Medicaid • $193 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which helps feed nearly 44 million people-including kids—every year • $143 billion from federal student loans, including the elimination of federally subsidized loans and loan forgiveness programs for nurses, police officers, and teachers • $100 billion from the Highway Trust Fund • $48 billion cut from Social Security’s disability program • $40.4 billion in cuts to the Earned Income Tac Credit and Child Tax Credit • $38 billion from Farm bill programs, including a cap on crop insurance premium subsidies • 31.4 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) • 20.5 percent cut to the Department of Agriculture Click here for Video of Today’s Speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech as Delivered: “Let me say a few words about the Trump Budget that was just released this morning. “We’re still digging into the text and combing through the details, but from what we’ve seen already, it is devastating. “Reports indicate that this budget makes the deepest cuts to federal programs that help the most vulnerable, the poorest of the poor. That’s nothing to be proud of. “At a time when our crumbling infrastructure needs repair, our kids need access to affordable education, and our workers need training to move into high tech jobs, we simply cannot afford to turn our back on these critical investments that will move our country forward, but this budget plan does just that. “Of all the rotten provisions tucked inside this document – and I could go on, and on, and on – I find the most troubling to be the radical assault on people living in poverty. “It’s easy to sit in an office at OMB and concoct plans to throw people off of SNAP and out of Medicaid and kick them out of their housing. This plan does just that. By any reading, that’s what this plan does. We’re reading about a $274 billion cut to our safety net, on top of the over $800 billion cut to Medicaid included in the Trumpcare bill. “These are real people. They are our constituents. They are our neighbors and our friends. Our kids go to school together. “But given some of the proposals I’ve seen from this majority party, I have to wonder whether some of my colleagues might never have talked with anyone living in poverty. I would say to them – life is very different when you leave the country club. Life is very different for people struggling in poverty, it’s very hard. “My Republican colleagues have made a habit out of belittling the working poor, instead of trying to understand their struggles. They work hard, often at more than one job, to put food on the table for their kids, and to put a roof over their heads. They are exhausted from work and from worry. “We see them every day, serving tables, washing dishes, hauling away trash, cleaning offices, mowing lawns, stacking heavy loads, taking care of people’s children, comforting the sick. Theirs are the faces in the bus windows going home from work at 2:00 in the morning. Theirs are the faces arriving at work at 5:00 in the morning the next day. They deserve our respect, not the disdain shown to them and to their families in this disgraceful budget. “And I’d like to remind my colleagues that poverty and hunger in rural areas is often as bad as – and sometimes even worse – than in cities. So I find it highly offensive that this budget slashes our safety net for the very people President Trump promised to protect – the very people who put President Trump in office. “I heard some of the rationale for the budget from the White House – the people that are on SNAP ought to work. I want to make clear for the record here, that the majority of people on SNAP are children, are senior citizens, or people who are disabled. Of those who can work, a majority of them work. But they earn so little that they are still stuck in poverty. Why aren’t we having a debate about increasing wages in this country? Why is the debate on how we make the lives of those in poverty even more miserable? “Budgets are moral documents and this is the most heartless, reckless, and damaging plan I’ve ever seen. It is immoral. The President’s Budget Director talked yesterday about ‘compassion’ for taxpayers, and for Trump supporters. “Give me a break. I would tell Mr. Mulvaney, I don’t think that word means what he thinks it means. ‘Compassion.’ Feeding starving children; helping a father get back on his feet after a job loss; helping a mother get back on her feet after a job loss; cleaning up poisoned water; ensuring everyone has a chance at living a healthy life, regardless of how much money they have… that is compassion. Not turning our back on these people. “Tax cuts for the wealthiest among us – at the expense of the public safety net – is cruel. It is cold-hearted. I’m sick of it. I assure you it is not compassionate.” “I hope my Republican colleagues will have the courage to stand up against this Administration and do what is right for the American people.” ###
05.18.2017	"In Congress, we need to support our federal anti-hunger programs and help those who struggling to put food on the table. At a time when progress in Washington is stalled, today was a proud day for bipartisanship." share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the top Democrat on the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee and a leading voice in the fight against hunger, spoke on the House floor to continue raising awareness about hunger and highlight the success of D.C. Central Kitchen in both preparing vulnerable adults for employment in the culinary industry and also in providing millions of meals for hungry families. Click Here For Video of Today’s Speech. “What makes DC Central Kitchen so special is it works to train and empower adults with high barriers to employment through its successful job training program. After graduating, 90 percent of the program’s participants find jobs in restaurants, hotels, cafeterias, schools, and other parts of the culinary industry. So not only does the program offer participants the training they need to enter the workforce, it also helps local business owners staff their companies with motivated and trained individuals. It’s a successful model that should be replicated. “A core aspect of D.C. Central Kitchen’s mission is feeding hungry children, seniors, and other vulnerable adults. Each day, the kitchen uses 3,000 pounds of donated and recovered food to make 5,000 healthy meals. In the past year alone, the Kitchen has delivered 1.8 million meals to 80 partner agencies! “Last year alone, the Kitchen prepared a million meals and snacks, and at least 50 percent of every plate was made of locally sourced produce. The program is supporting local farmers, as well! “D.C. Central Kitchen is also working to expand its reach across the country by engaging high schools and college students with its successful campus kitchens project. On 53 high school and college campuses, students work to fight hunger and food waste by turning surplus food into healthy meals for those in need. “But, during our visit we were also reminded that charities like D.C. Central Kitchen can’t do it alone. They are only one piece of the puzzle when it comes to alleviating hunger and helping our most vulnerable neighbors back to work. In Congress, we need to support our federal anti-hunger safety net and commit to long term investments in areas like job training, housing, addiction recovery, and education, just to name a few. “At a time when progress in Washington is stalled, it was refreshing to join a bipartisan group from the House Agriculture Committee in accomplishing something! “We all need to do more to help those who are having trouble putting food on the table, so it was great to chop peppers, carrots, and radishes to help make nutritious salads for those in need. It was a great reminder that working together, we can end hunger now.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “This week I joined my colleague Representative GT Thompson of Pennsylvania on a visit to D.C. Central Kitchen. “GT serves as the Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Nutrition Subcommittee, and I serve as the Ranking Democratic Member. Our Committee oversees federal nutrition and anti-hunger programs, including SNAP, our nation’s first line of defense against hunger in communities across this country. “I’ve been fortunate enough to work with the incredible staff, students, and volunteers of D.C.Central Kitchen for years, and I’m so pleased GT was able to join us this week to experience firsthand the impact this organization has on the DC community. I very much appreciate his commitment to nutrition, and his support for anti-hunger initiatives. “During our visit this week, we heard from the Kitchen’s CEO Michael Curtin. I continue to be inspired by Mike’s commitment to and passion for alleviating hunger and offering some of the most vulnerable adults in this community the opportunity for a second chance. “What makes DC Central Kitchen so special is its mission – not only does the organization work to address the immediate nutritional needs of local residents, but it works to train and empower adults with high barriers to employment through its successful job training program. “This preeminent job training program prepares vulnerable adults – those with difficult histories of incarceration, addiction, homelessness, trauma, and chronic unemployment – for careers in the culinary industry. Importantly, students of the program also receive career readiness training and self-empowerment counseling. As Mike pointed out during our visit, these important components of the program are a big part of why students are able to find – and keep – jobs after graduating. “The program works! After graduating, 90 percent of the program’s participants find jobs in restaurants, hotels, cafeterias, schools, and other parts of the culinary industry. So not only does the program offer participants the training they need to enter the workforce, it also helps local business owners staff their companies with motivated and trained individuals. It’s a successful model that should be replicated. “A core aspect of D.C. Central Kitchen’s mission is feeding hungry children, seniors, and other vulnerable adults. Each day, the kitchen uses 3,000 pounds of donated and recovered food to make 5,000 healthy meals. In the past year alone, the Kitchen has delivered 1.8 million meals to 80 partner agencies! “A majority of the meals are delivered to at-risk children in afterschool programs, emergency shelters, adult education and services providers, child and youth services providers, and homeless shelters, but transitional housing, rehabilitation, drug treatment, and domestic violence shelters also receive food from the Kitchen as well. “I’m particularly impressed by the reach of D.C. Central Kitchen’s school food program, which provides healthy meals to kids in 15 local schools. Last year alone, the Kitchen prepared a million meals and snacks, and at least 50 percent of every plate was made of locally sourced produce. The program is supporting local farmers, as well! “D.C. Central Kitchen is also working to expand its reach across the country by engaging high schools and college students with its successful campus kitchens project. On 53 high school and college campuses, students work to fight hunger and food waste by turning surplus food into healthy meals for those in need. “On top of all of this, D.C. Central Kitchen also has a successful catering arm that uses locally-sourced produce to create healthy and delicious meals for special events. The catering, coupled with private donations, help to fund the Kitchen’s programs and invest in these incredible students. “During our visit earlier this week, we saw first-hand the positive impact DC Central Kitchen is having on the community. We were able to meet some of the Kitchen’s students, volunteers, and graduates who are now working at the Kitchen. They are inspirational! “But, during our visit we were also reminded that charities like D.C. Central Kitchen can’t do it alone. They are only one piece of the puzzle when it comes to alleviating hunger and helping our most vulnerable neighbors back to work. In Congress, we need to support our federal anti-hunger safety net and commit to long term investments in areas like job training, housing, addiction recovery, and education, just to name a few. “At a time when progress in Washington is stalled, it was refreshing to join my colleague GT, his staff, and a bipartisan group from the House Agriculture Committee in accomplishing something! “We all need to do more to help those who are having trouble putting food on the table, so it was great to chop peppers, carrots, and radishes to help make nutritious salads for those in need. “It was a great reminder that working together, we can end hunger now.” ###
05.17.2017	“For too long, Republican leaders in Congress have stood in the way of the full, independent investigation the American people deserve,” Congressman McGovern said. “We must have an independent, outside commission to investigate the Trump-Russia connection and the possibility of collusion to influence the presidential election without the meddling of the Trump Administration. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – As new reports show President Trump attempted to shut down the FBI’s investigation of his campaign and administration’s ties to Russia, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) today joined a discharge petition to force the House to vote on bipartisan legislation establishing an independent, outside commission to investigate the Trump-Russia connection and possible collusion to interfere in the presidential election. Recent polling shows 78 percent of Americans want an independent investigation. “For too long, Republican leaders in Congress have stood in the way of the full, independent investigation the American people deserve,” Congressman McGovern said. “We must have an independent, outside commission to investigate the Trump-Russia connection and the possibility of collusion to influence the presidential election without the meddling of the Trump Administration. Congressman McGovern is an original sponsor of the discharge petition filed by House Democrats today and that measure will force the House to vote on H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, a bill introduced by Representatives Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Eric Swalwell (D-CA), after 218 Members of Congress sign the discharge petition. Thus far, Speaker Ryan has refused to schedule a vote on the bipartisan bill, and House Republicans have voted seven times to block its consideration in the House. “Every day it seems new evidence emerges showing how deep the Trump-Russia connection goes. Where there’s smoke, there’s fire,” Congressman McGovern said. “Now is the time for Congress to find the fire and get the facts and we can only do that a fully independent bipartisan commission.” In July 2016, the FBI opened an investigation into possible collusion between Trump campaign officials and the Russian government. Last week, President Trump admitted on national television that he fired FBI Director James Comey to try to stop his investigation into Trump-Russia ties. On Monday, we learned the President compromised highly classified intelligence to the Russians and jeopardized the security of the American people – the day after he fired the FBI Director. “If the President has nothing to hide, then he should welcome the chance to remove all doubt of a cover-up,” Congressman McGovern said. “It is time for all members of Congress to put politics aside and follow the facts. We took an oath to defend and uphold the Constitution. We must act now.” ###
05.09.2017	DHARAMSALA, INDIA – U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and their bipartisan Congressional delegation in meetings this week in India and Nepal with government and religious leaders, including His Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama. Congressman McGovern is a senior House Democrat, Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, and a leading voice in America calling for new policies to strengthen human rights in Tibet. In addition to meeting with the Dalai Lama in India, McGovern, Pelosi, and the delegation met earlier in Nepal with President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, Prime Minister Pushpa Kama Dahal, Foreign Minister Prakash Sharan Mahat, and Parliamentary Speaker Onsari Gharti Magar, as well as President of Central Tibetan Administration Dr. Lobsang Sangay. Nepal has hosted a large number of Tibetan refugees for years. Congressman McGovern released the following statement: “Now more than ever, America must continue to be a strong leader on the world stage. This week’s meetings have been an important opportunity for our bipartisan delegation to reaffirm that leadership and stand up for the human rights and freedom of all peoples. “I am especially worried about the situation of the Tibetan people. I am deeply troubled by the reports I receive from inside Tibet of human rights abuses and affronts to basic human dignity -- like the demolition of buildings and forced eviction of religious people from the famous Buddhist institute at Larung Gar, and the severe restrictions on the rights of Tibetans to freely meet, speak, write and worship as they choose. And I am equally concerned about the obstacles Tibetans face when they try to travel within China or to neighboring countries. “It is long past time for the U.S. to rethink our policy toward Tibet. For years, China has faced no consequences for its failure to respect the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people. This must change. If China wants its citizens and officials to travel freely in the U.S., Americans must be able to travel freely in China, including Tibet. “In my meetings with the Dalai Lama and Nepalese leaders, I made clear that I will continue to push for the United States to hold China accountable for their human rights abuses. We must not ignore their continued assault on the freedom of the Tibetan people. Time may be running out for the people of Tibet. All those who say they believe in the rights of the Tibetans must move beyond words to concrete actions.” Last week, Congressman McGovern outlined a bold new agenda for strengthening human rights in Tibet: Policy Changes China Must Enact: Remove the obstacles to freedom of movement for Tibetans within China and abroad. China can’t have it both ways. Either Tibetans are Chinese citizens or they’re not. If they are, they must enjoy the same rights and privileges as other Chinese citizens. Permit His Holiness the Dalai Lama to return to Tibet for a visit if he so desires. He is a man of peace who will soon turn 82 years old. He should be able to visit his homeland. Demonstrate true respect for the human rights and religious freedom of the Tibetan people. A first step would be to permit an independent international investigation into the July 2015 death in custody of revered lama Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. Policy Changes the United States Must Enact: Appoint the Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues as quickly as possible. To make progress, we need someone in charge. Insist that China restart the dialogue to lead to a negotiated agreement on Tibet. Develop a list of Chinese officials subject to sanction under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. No one responsible for torture and extrajudicial killings, or for significant corruption, should benefit from coming to our country and doing business here. Publicly engage the Dalai Lama and the democratically-elected leader of the Tibetan people. The State Department should take every opportunity to benefit from the Dalai Lama’s knowledge and decades of reflections. The Secretary of State should highlight the democratic practices of the Tibetan people, and meet personally with the Sikyong, Dr. Lobsang Sangay. Engage other governments to create a Group of Friends of Tibet. It’s time to pursue a coordinated international action in support of the Tibetan people. Joining Congressman McGovern and Leader Pelosi on the delegation are: Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Foreign Affairs Committee, Judiciary Committee Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Committee; Energy and Commerce Committee Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), Appropriations Committee Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Ways and Means Committee; Small Business Committee Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Financial Services Committee Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Vice Ranking Member, Budget Committee; Judiciary Committee ###
05.05.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) is joining House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi on a bipartisan Congressional delegation visit to India, Nepal, Germany and Belgium focusing on national security, the global economy, bilateral and multilateral relations, and human rights. Congressman McGovern is Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and has been a leading voice in Congress for strengthening human rights around the world. “America must continue to be a strong leader on the world stage and our bipartisan delegation travels at a critical time for the U.S. relationship with India, Nepal and our NATO allies,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am proud to join Leader Pelosi on this delegation and look forward to our meetings to discuss ways the U.S. and our allies can work together to strengthen economic relationships and global security, while also doing more to strengthen human rights and address our shared regional interests.” Joining Congressman McGovern and Leader Pelosi on the delegation are: Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI), Foreign Affairs Committee, Judiciary Committee Rep. Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member, Foreign Affairs Committee; Energy and Commerce Committee Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), Appropriations Committee Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Ways and Means Committee; Small Business Committee Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Financial Services Committee Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Vice Ranking Member, Budget Committee; Judiciary Committee ###
05.04.2017	“Pathetic. That’s the word to describe this process and this bill. If the American people could sue Congress for malpractice – my Republican friends would be in deep trouble. How could you do this? How could you do this to the people you represent? share: f t Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the senior House Democrat leading debate on the House floor against the American Health Care Act, slammed House Republicans for trying to steamroll the disastrous bill that would take healthcare away from millions of Americans. Click here for video of today’s speech. “Pathetic. That’s the word to describe this process and this bill. If the American people could sue Congress for malpractice – my Republican friends would be in deep trouble. How could you do this? How could you do this to the people you represent? “You are taking away essential health care protections. You are allowing insurance companies to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions. You are supporting a bill that will throw 24 million people off of their health care and cut Medicaid by $880 billion to give a $1 trillion dollar tax break to the very wealthy. What is wrong with you? “The American people were justifiably outraged – and they showed up by the thousands at town halls to express their anger. I guarantee you – your constituents are going to figure this out. And they will not be happy. And let me say to my colleagues, to claim or imply that this Republican plan covers pre-existing conditions, is a lie. “Let me also say a few words about the process that has been used to bring this bill to the floor. It has been a disaster from start to finish with secret negotiations, backroom deals, and bribes to buy off factions within the Republican conference. There have been no hearings on this bill whatsoever. And the Republican leadership couldn’t even slow down long enough to receive a score from the CBO. “Are Republican leaders jamming this bill through to appease President Trump? Are they concerned that a new CBO score will confirm what we already know is true – that this bill would be devastating to the people of this country, force even more people to lose health care, especially to older, sick, and low-income Americans? “We’re supposed to fix problems and help people – not merely settle for political cover that can be used in a press release. I urge my colleagues to vote no on this bill. Or better yet, do what they did a couple weeks ago and pull this disastrous bill.” Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “Pathetic. “That’s the word to describe this process and this bill. “If the American people could sue Congress for malpractice – my Republican friends would be in deep trouble. “How could you do this? How could you do this to the American people? How could you do this to the people you represent? “You are taking away essential health care protections. You are allowing insurance companies to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions. You are supporting a bill that will throw 24 million people off of their health care and cut Medicaid by $880 billion to give a $1 trillion dollar tax break to the very wealthy. “What is wrong with you? “Today’s rule self-executes three of the newest Republican amendments to the Republican health plan. This means, without any sort of debate or discussion whatsoever, the Palmer, MacArthur, and Upton amendments will magically pass the House. What I find so hard to believe about this latest backroom deal is that it actually makes this bill worse! I didn’t think that was possible. “To shore up support among this chamber’s most conservative faction, Representative MacArthur and others made a deal with President Trump to gut protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions and to eliminate essential health benefits like maternity care, mental health treatment, and prescription drug coverage, just to name a few. These are among the most popular provisions of the Affordable Care Act. “The American people were justifiably outraged – and they showed up by the thousands at town halls to express their anger. And there were some on the Republican side who actually got it. They listened to their constituents and they had the courage to stand up and say no. “But, when Republican leaders once again came up short in their whip count, Representative Upton ran to the White House and concocted a deal with President Trump to try to win back votes. His amendment adds a measly $8 billion spread out over 5 years in a futile attempt to soften the devastating impact that this bill will have on millions and millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions. “$8 billion over 5 years sounds like a lot, but when we are talking about an entire country, it really isn’t. But don’t take it from me. Robert Graboyes from the conservative Mercatus Center said ‘the $8 billion amount is a pittance…spread over five years, it’s a fifth of a pittance.” This is not a left-wing organization. This is an organization funded by Koch Industries, the Koch brothers, my Republican friends love the Koch brothers. “What’s more, some analysts have already estimated that an additional $200 billion will be needed over a decade to adequately fund high-risk pools, so this amendment is billions upon billions of dollars short. As the Center for American Progress points out, the Upton Amendment ‘will have almost no effect.’ “My colleagues who have been won over by this should be ashamed of themselves. We’re supposed to fix problems and help people – not merely settle for political cover that can be used in a press release. $8 billion to cover a $200 billion shortfall? Back where I come from, we call that being a “cheap date.” “I guarantee you – your constituents are going to figure this out. And they will not be happy. “For the so-called moderate Republicans who have contorted themselves this week to find a fix to the damage being done to people with pre-existing conditions, I have breaking news: I have a magic bullet fix if Republicans really want to protect people with pre-existing conditions. Are you ready? Brace yourselves. Don’t change the law! Everyone is already protected by the Affordable Care Act – including people with pre-existing conditions and those who struggle to find affordable care. “And let me say to my colleagues, to claim or imply that this Republican plan covers pre-existing conditions, is a lie. Plain and simple. “Let me also say a few words about the process that has been used to bring this bill to the floor. It has been a disaster from start to finish with secret negotiations, backroom deals, and bribes to buy off factions within the Republican conference. There have been no hearings on this bill whatsoever. And the Republican leadership couldn’t even slow down long enough to receive a score from the CBO. “I have one simple question: What’s the rush? Wait a week and get a CBO score. Why is that such a radical idea? “Are Republican leaders jamming this bill through to appease President Trump? Are they concerned that a new CBO score will confirm what we already know is true – that this bill would be devastating to the people of this country, force even more people to lose health care, especially to older, sick, and low-income Americans? “Or maybe, Republican leaders are worried that their colleagues will go home over the week long break and hear from their constituents who overwhelmingly oppose this effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “Honestly, I don’t know how my Republican friends can defend this terrible, closed, authoritarian process. It is an absolute disgrace. So I urge my colleagues to vote no on this bill. Or better yet, do what they did a couple weeks ago and pull this disastrous bill.” ###
05.04.2017	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following video statement to constituents in Massachusetts in response to today’s vote by House Republicans to pass the American Health Care Act, which would repeal the Affordable Care Act, take health insurance away from millions of Americans, and cause health costs to increase for families across the country. Click here to view and download Congressman McGovern’s video statement. “Today House Republicans turned their backs on millions of Americans by voting to pass Trumpcare and repeal the Affordable Care Act. This bill throws 24 million Americans off their health insurance, cuts Medicaid by $880 billion, and gives a huge tax cut to the richest people in our country. It cuts Medicare, it does away with essential health benefits like maternity care, and it also, I’m sad to say, takes away protections for people with pre-existing conditions. It is an outrage, an abomination, and we need to stop it. “The resistance needs to continue. We need to now look at the United States Senate. Our two senators, Senator Markey and Senator Warren are on the right side of this issue and they’re going to be fighting. “Healthcare ought to be a right in this country, not a privilege. We cannot allow this terrible excuse of a healthcare bill to become law. I’m going to stand with you and fight it every step of the way. We need to stop this.” ### Click Here to View and Download Congressman McGovern’s Video Statement
05.02.2017	“We need to rethink U.S. policy toward Tibet. For years, China has faced no consequences for its failure to respect the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people." share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, delivered a speech on the House floor calling for a new U.S. policy toward Tibet to safeguard the distinct identity of the Tibetan people and hold China accountable for human rights abuses. Click Here for Video of Today’s Speech In today’s speech, Congressman McGovern called for Congress to pass H.R. 1872, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act, a bipartisan bill he introduced in April in the House with Congressman Randy Hultgren (R-IL). A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI). The bill promotes access to Tibetan areas by authorizing the U.S. government to deny Chinese government officials access to the United States if they are responsible for creating or implementing restrictions on the travel of American government officials, journalists, and tourists in Tibet. Congressman McGovern said: “We need to rethink U.S. policy toward Tibet. For years, China has faced no consequences for its failure to respect the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people. I constantly receive reports from Tibet of human rights abuses and affronts to basic human dignity. This must change. If China wants its citizens and officials to travel freely in the U.S., Americans must be able to travel freely in China, including Tibet.” Congressman McGovern laid out a clear policy agenda for what the United States and China must do to strengthen human rights in Tibet. Policy Changes China Must Enact: • Remove the obstacles to freedom of movement for Tibetans within China and abroad. China can’t have it both ways. Either Tibetans are Chinese citizens or they’re not. If they are, they must enjoy the same rights and privileges as other Chinese citizens. • Permit His Holiness the Dalai Lama to return to Tibet for a visit if he so desires. He is a man of peace who will soon turn 82 years old. He should be able to visit his homeland. • Demonstrate true respect for the human rights and religious freedom of the Tibetan people. A first step would be to permit an independent international investigation into the July 2015 death in custody of revered lama Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. Policy Changes the United States Must Enact: • Appoint the Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues as quickly as possible. To make progress, we need someone in charge. • Insist that China restart the dialogue to lead to a negotiated agreement on Tibet. • Develop a list of Chinese officials subject to sanction under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. No one responsible for torture and extrajudicial killings, or for significant corruption, should benefit from coming to our country and doing business here. • Publicly engage the Dalai Lama and the democratically-elected leader of the Tibetan people. The State Department should take every opportunity to benefit from the Dalai Lama’s knowledge and decades of reflections. The Secretary of State should highlight the democratic practices of the Tibetan people, and meet personally with the Sikyong, Dr. Lobsang Sangay. • Engage other governments to create a Group of Friends of Tibet. It’s time to pursue a coordinated international action in support of the Tibetan people. Click Here for Video of Today’s Speech Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech on U.S. Tibet Policy: “In 2002, Congress passed the Tibetan Policy Act ‘to support the aspirations of the Tibetan people to safeguard their distinct identity.’ “The law laid out steps to protect the distinct religious, cultural, and linguistic identity of Tibet, and to press for improved respect for the human rights of the Tibetan people -- a dialogue between His Holiness the Dalai Lama and the Chinese government; the immediate and unconditional release of Tibetan prisoners of conscience; establishing a U.S. consular office in Lhasa; and requesting that the 11th Panchen Lama be allowed to pursue his religious studies without Chinese government interference. • Mr. Speaker, these were basic, common-sense steps. Yet 15 years later there is little progress: • The Chinese-Tibet dialogue has been suspended since 2010. • There are hundreds of Tibetan prisoners of conscience. Many are monks. Some, like Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, have died in custody. • There is still no U.S. consular office in Lhasa, a major problem for U.S. officials trying to respond to emergencies like the 2015 earthquake that trapped dozens of our citizens in the Tibetan Autonomous Region. • And the Chinese government, officially atheist, has declared that it will decide who will be reincarnated as the next Dalai Lama. “I want to express my concern for the well-being of the missing 11th Panchen Lama, the second highest leader in the Tibetan religion. “Twenty-two years ago, Gedhun Choekyi Nyima was detained by Chinese authorities when he was just 6 years old, and just three days after the Dalai Lama declared him to be the reincarnated Panchen Lama. “Today, he is one of the world’s longest-serving political prisoners. China has refused to provide any details of his whereabouts. “Let me be clear, the Chinese government does not have the right or the authority to name the reincarnated religious leaders of Tibet, not the Panchen Lama, and not the next Dalai Lama. “I constantly receive reports from Tibet of human rights abuses and affronts to basic human dignity -- like the demolition of buildings and forced eviction of religious people from the famous Buddhist institute at Larung Gar. Or the restrictions that keep Tibetans from traveling around their own country, much less abroad. “We need to rethink U.S. policy toward Tibet. For years, China has faced no consequences for its failure to respect the fundamental rights of the Tibetan people. This must change. “Along with a bipartisan group of Members of Congress, I have introduced H.R. 1872, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act. This bill imposes consequences for just one aspect of China’s bad behavior: its restrictions on travel to areas in China where ethnic Tibetans live. “U.S. diplomats, journalists, and tourists have to get a special permit to enter the Tibet Autonomous Region, and travel to other Tibetan areas is also tightly controlled. “But under H.R. 1872, no senior leader responsible for designing or implementing travel restrictions to Tibetan areas would be eligible to enter the United States. “The rationale for the bill is simple. The basis of diplomatic law is mutual access and reciprocity. “But while the Chinese enjoy broad access to the United States, the same is not true for U.S. diplomats, journalists or tourists going to Tibet -- including Tibetan-Americans trying to visit their place of origin. “This is simply unacceptable. “If China wants its citizens and officials to travel freely in the U.S., Americans must be able to travel freely in China, including Tibet. “Allowing travel to Tibet is only one step China needs to take. It must also: • Remove the obstacles to freedom of movement for Tibetans within China and abroad. China can’t have it both ways. Either Tibetans are Chinese citizens or they’re not. If they are, they must enjoy the same rights and privileges as other Chinese citizens. • Permit His Holiness the Dalai Lama to return to Tibet for a visit if he so desires. He is a man of peace who will soon turn 82 years old. He should be able to visit his homeland. • Demonstrate true respect for the human rights and religious freedom of the Tibetan people. A first step would be to permit an independent international investigation into the July 2015 death in custody of revered lama Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. “On our side, the new Trump Administration needs to: • Appoint the Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues as quickly as possible. To make progress, we need someone in charge. • Insist that China restart the dialogue to lead to a negotiated agreement on Tibet. • Develop a list of Chinese officials subject to sanction under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act. No one responsible for torture and extrajudicial killings, or for significant corruption, should benefit from coming to our country and doing business here. • Publicly engage the Dalai Lama and the democratically-elected leader of the Tibetan people. The State Department should take every opportunity to benefit from the Dalai Lama’s knowledge and decades of reflections. The Secretary of State should highlight the democratic practices of the Tibetan people, and meet personally with the Sikyong, Dr. Lobsang Sangay. • Engage other governments to create a Group of Friends of Tibet. It’s time to pursue a coordinated international action in support of the Tibetan people. “Time may be running out for the Tibetan people. All those who say they believe in the rights of the Tibetans must move beyond words to concrete actions. “I urge my colleagues to cosponsor H.R. 1872, the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act, and to support additional measures to protect all that is unique about Tibet and its people.” ###
05.02.2017	“Small businesses are the heart and soul of our economy and I'm proud to support them across our district in Massachusetts." share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Luke M. Vaillancourt from Vaillancourt Folk Art in Sutton joined a Small Business Week Constituent Roundtable to highlight the success of small businesses in Central Massachusetts and the push by House Democrats to help more small businesses across the country. "Small businesses are the heart and soul of our economy in Central Massachusetts and Vaillancourt Folk Art is a shining example," Congressman McGovern said. "For more than 30 years, Luke M. Vaillancourt and his family have been a strong part of our community, running their business with pride. I was honored to have him join us at today’s roundtable to share his perspective and ideas for how we can do more to support our small businesses in Massachusetts." For Vaillancourt, being part of a family business existed long before having a position in the company. According to Vaillancourt, "When people talk about small businesses they often confuse the term by defining a small business as having one or two employees. Since 1984, our staff of 19 has relied on Vaillancourt Folk Art for their livelihood. Every employee feels the struggles and victories that our business feels, and when a small business is taxed and penalized as if it were a large corporation, it hurts all of us.” It is Vaillancourt’s hope to relay that message to the congressional committee, “The struggles of a small business aren’t about trying to grow into a ‘big’ business, it’s about ensuring our employees have a job, thus allowing our business to be around for another generation.” Vaillancourt Folk Art has been in business, in Sutton, Massachusetts since 1984. Founded in Gary and Judi’s basement, the company has seen both expansions and contractions from both internal and external influences. While Vaillancourt Folk Art, whose fine art quality holiday collectibles are available commercially within museums, catalogs, small mom and pop shops, and in department stores around the world, their business goal has always been to provide a living to their employees while contributing an art tradition to customers around the globe. CAPTION: Congressman Jim McGovern with Luke M. Vaillancourt from Vaillancourt Folk Art in Sutton at today’s Small Business roundtable hosted by House Democrats for National Small Business Week. Vaillancourt reflects, “Since I joined my parents at their company, I feel as though there was a separation between government and small business. The fact that Congressman McGovern doesn’t just talk about wanting to help small business, but is having a representative from his district involved in the congressional discussion shows that government and small business can help each other grow and thrive." Over half of Americans own or work for a small business, creating around two out of every three net new jobs in the United States. Additionally, America’s 28 million small businesses account for 54% of all U.S. sales. ###
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today a bipartisan group of 46 lawmakers – led by Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Tom Cole (R-OK), Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Walter Jones (R-NC) – called on Speaker Ryan to begin a serious debate on the authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) against the Islamic State and express that President Trump must seek approval from Congress before taking any further military action against the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad. Click here to view the letter online. The largest bipartisan coalition yet calling for Congress to exercise its constitutional responsibility to vote on whether to approve any future U.S. military operations against ISIS and Syria, today’s letter includes 7 bipartisan members of House Armed Services Committee, 9 bipartisan members of House Appropriations Committee, and 4 bipartisan members of House Foreign Affairs Committee, including Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY). “Today, we’re sending a strong bipartisan message that it’s long past time for Congress to take responsibility for the war against ISIS by finally holding a debate and vote on whether to authorize any future military action. With his recent military strike against Syria, we are also declaring that President Trump must not undertake any new military operations without the approval of Congress,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “Every day our brave men and women in uniform are doing their duty, it’s time for Congress to do its duty. Americans didn’t elect us to give a blank check to the White House when it comes to war. Democrats and Republicans are united in saying the time for action is now.” “The United States has been combating growing global threats with the same Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) since 2003. With American forces engaged against ISIS in Syria, a debate in Congress about the use of force against that enemy in that theatre is long overdue,” Congressman Tom Cole (R-OK) said. “The best way to build support and credibility for necessary military actions is for President Trump to seek for an AUMF from Congress. Congress owes President Trump our counsel and advice as we look to fight our enemies abroad.” “For years now, Speaker Ryan has blocked Congress from debating and voting on an ISIS-specific AUMF. President Trump’s recent unauthorized and illegal military strike against Syria showed the extent to which Congress is simply missing in action. It is past time we repeal the 2001 AUMF blank check for endless war and for the Speaker to allow Congress to do its job,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA). “The Constitution is clear: Congress has a responsibility to debate and vote on matters of war and peace. The American people deserve better than a Congress that abdicates this sacred responsibility.” “One of our most sacred responsibilities in Congress is that of debating war policy and deciding whether or not we send our service members into conflict,” said Congressman Walter Jones (R-OK). “We owe that to the American people, and we owe that to our men and women in uniform.” In addition to McGovern, Cole, Lee, and Jones, today’s letter was also signed by Representatives Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Thomas Massie (R-KY), John Lewis (D-GA), Paul A. Gosar, D.D.S. (R-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Ted S. Yoho, D.V.M. (R-FL), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Justin Amash (R-MI), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Peter J. Visclosky (D-IN), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Peter Welch (D-VT), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Judy Chu (D-CA), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Ron Kind (D-WI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), and Ted Lieu (D-CA). Click here to view the letter online. Full Text of Today’s Letter to Speaker Ryan: April 28, 2017 The Honorable Paul D. Ryan Speaker of the House H-232 U.S. Capitol Building U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We write to you with a sense of urgency and ask that the U.S. House of Representatives immediately begin a serious debate on the use of military force (AUMF) against the Islamic State and express that the President must seek approval from Congress before taking any further military action against the Syrian regime of Bashar al-Assad. As you know, we represent a diverse group of political views, but on this matter we are united. We believe that Congress has an important role to play, and based on current events, such a debate should occur as soon as possible. For too long, the United States has conducted military operations against the Islamic State under the justification of the outdated 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). The U.S. has steadily escalated its role and military presence against the Islamic State forces in Syria and Iraq, including additional deployments over the past two months. It is past time for the House to debate and vote on an AUMF that defines the purpose, nature and limits of U.S. military engagement against the Islamic State. Furthermore, the U.S. has now carried out its first direct military action against the Syrian regime since the country’s civil war began six years ago, again without any authorization by Congress. We believe the President must present a strategy and seek the approval of Congress before any additional military action is taken against the Syrian regime. We know that you share our respect for the prerogatives, rights and obligations of the Congress as defined under Article I of the Constitution. Congress cannot continue to remain silent and ignore its responsibilities under the Constitution. Engaging in these debates is the minimum we owe the American people and our brave men and women in uniform. Sincerely, . ###
04.11.2017	WASHINGTON—Today Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), Rep. Lou Barletta (R-VT), and Rep. Peter King (NY-02) announced they have rallied a bipartisan coalition to fight for full funding of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). In a letter to the House Appropriations Committee penned by the lawmakers, 164 Members expressed the critical importance of this safety net program to struggling families. President Trump’s budget proposal would eliminate federal funding for LIHEAP. “LIHEAP helps low-income households and seniors with their energy bills, providing vital assistance during both the cold winter and hot summer months. LIHEAP households are among the most vulnerable in the country,” the letter reads. “For these households, LIHEAP funding has been a lifeline during challenging economic times.” The full text of the letter can be found below: Dear Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro, We are writing to request that you prioritize the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in your Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 appropriations bill by including no less than $4.7 billion for this program that provides critical support to our most vulnerable citizens. LIHEAP helps low-income households and seniors with their energy bills, providing vital assistance during both the cold winter and hot summer months. LIHEAP households are among the most vulnerable in the country. According to the National Energy Assistance Director’s Association (NEADA), nearly 90 percent of LIHEAP recipients have at least one household member who is a child, elderly, or disabled. For these households, LIHEAP funding has been a lifeline during challenging economic times. Access to affordable home energy is not a luxury – it is a matter of health and safety. We understand the ongoing discretionary budget challenges. However, we are deeply concerned that funding for LIHEAP has declined more than 30 percent in recent years. Moreover, the number of households eligible for assistance continues to exceed available funding. According to NEADA, the total number of households receiving LIHEAP assistance has declined by 15.5 percent between FY 2010 and FY 2015, from 8.1 million to 6.8 million. About 1.3 million poor households have lost access to critical LIHEAP assistance and struggle to pay for the basic necessity of home energy in addition to other essentials like food and medicine. Funding has declined by almost $1.7 billion since FY 2010, yet energy costs have remained high, reducing the purchasing power of LIHEAP assistance. Recipients have seen their average LIHEAP grant reduced by about $107 since 2010, from $520 in FY 2010 to $413 in FY 2015. The average LIHEAP grant is estimated to cover less than half of the average home heating costs for a household this winter, meaning that many low-income families and seniors will have fewer resources available to meet other basic needs. As you finalize your FY 2018 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, we ask that you take into account the great need for LIHEAP. We urge you to reprioritize this program and restore funding to this program to a level no less than $4.7 billion. Thank you for your attention to and consideration of this important request. Sincerely, ###
04.07.2017	"Charging into another endless war is not the answer. To finally end the suffering of the Syrian people, Congress must do its job and vote and debate on a bipartisan strategy. We must also ensure that any U.S. military action is not only approved by Congress, but has the backing of our international allies, partners, and the American people. share: f t U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading critic of both Republican and Democratic presidents for their increased use of military power, released the following statement on President Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes on Syria. In February 2017, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan group of 19 lawmakers calling for Speaker Ryan to hold a debate and vote on the authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) for current U.S. military operations in the Middle East. In his statement on last night’s U.S. airstrikes against Syria, Congressman McGovern renews that call: "Every president must obtain congressional authorization to launch military strikes and President Trump is no exception. "We all agree that Assad's barbaric bombardment, chemical and military attacks against his own people cannot be allowed to continue. But that does not justify military action without any effort to even consult the American people and their elected representatives in Congress. "The most recent chemical attacks by Assad on innocent civilians in Syria is a defining moment for the world. The U.S. must start by resuming our refugee resettlement programs and work with a broad international coalition to bring to justice Assad and all who have committed war crimes and crimes against humanity. "President Trump and the United States must demand that Russia and Vladimir Putin stop bombing the Syrian people and bring an end to this horrific war. We cannot ignore the fact that Putin bears responsibility for Assad remaining in power. "Charging into another endless war is not the answer. To finally end the suffering of the Syrian people, Congress must do its job and vote and debate on a bipartisan strategy. We must also ensure that any U.S. military action is not only approved by Congress, but has the backing of our international allies, partners, and the American people. "We have a moral duty to act and we must do so as one country, united in purpose and with a clear strategy to end this conflict once and for all."
04.07.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading critic of the expanded use of military force by presidents in both parties, joined House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and other lawmakers calling for Speaker Ryan to immediately call the House of Representatives back into session to debate an Authorization of the Use of Military Force for military actions taken in Syria. In February 2017, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan group of 19 lawmakers calling for Speaker Ryan to hold a debate and vote on the authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) for U.S. military operations in the Middle East. Following President Trump’s unilateral action to order airstrikes against Syria last night, Congressman McGovern is renewing that call with this statement: “Every president must obtain congressional authorization to launch military strikes and President Trump is no exception. President Trump’s unilateral action to attack Syria without consulting Congress and obtaining authorization is an alarming violation of the checks and balances put in place by the Constitution – safeguards established to prevent presidents from taking our country to war without the consent of the American people. “Americans must have a say when it comes to war. President Trump’s failure to work with Congress to achieve a bipartisan consensus on military action has shut out the voices of the American people and raised serious concerns about the possibility of military escalation without any input from their elected leaders. The time to debate U.S. military operations is before we drop bombs and send troops – not after. “Today I am joining the growing bipartisan call for Congress to immediately reconvene to debate the path forward for U.S. military operations in Syria. If the President intends to escalate U.S. military involvement in Syria, he must to come to Congress for an Authorization for Use of Military Force which is clearly crafted to meet the threat and prevent another endless war. The American people and our men and women in uniform deserve nothing less.” Full Text of Pelosi Letter to Speaker Ryan: April 7, 2017 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, United States Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker, I am writing to request that you call the House back in session immediately to debate any decision to place our men and women in uniform in harm’s way. Bashar al-Assad 's chemical weapons attack on his own people places him outside the circle of civilized human behavior. Assad also continues to attack his own people with conventional weapons. Meanwhile, Russia props up the Assad regime and enables its brutal war crimes to continue. The President’s action and any response demands that we immediately do our duty. Congress must live up to its Constitutional responsibility to debate an Authorization of the Use of Military Force against a sovereign nation. As heartbreaking as Assad’s chemical weapons attacks on his own people was, the crisis in Syria will not be resolved by one night of airstrikes. The killing will not stop without a comprehensive political solution to end the violence. The American people are owed a comprehensive strategy with clear objectives to keep our brave men and women in uniform safe and avoid collateral damage to innocent civilians in Syria. I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible on this matter of grave concern to our national security. best regards, NANCY PELOSI Democratic Leader
04.07.2017	This week U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) led a group of 78 House and Senate Democrats calling on President Trump and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to respond to recent attacks against environmental and land activists, human rights defenders and local communities in Honduras. Click here to view letter. In this week’s letter to Secretary Tillerson, the lawmakers expressed their “grave concern with the attacks against environmental and land activists, human rights defenders and local communities in Honduras. As you know, Congress has approved specific conditions to promote and protect human rights and address corruption in Honduras. We therefore urge the Administration to vigorously apply U.S. law related to assistance for, and investment in, Honduras.” The lawmakers noted that a recent report from Global Witness labeled Honduras “the most dangerous place in the world to defend land rights and the environment, with over 120 activists murdered since the coup d’état in 2009. The report details the widespread threats, attacks, stigmatization, and criminalization of civil society activists who raise concerns about the human rights, social and environmental impacts of hydropower, agribusiness, mining, logging and tourism projects. The report indicates that government officials, security forces, and business elites have colluded to impose extractive projects on indigenous, Afro-Honduran and campesino communities and to silence opposition. Lack of political will and weak institutions too often fail to respond effectively to these crimes, reinforcing impunity in Honduras. The lawmakers expressed concern “that U.S. assistance has been provided to the Honduran government despite recurring threats and assassinations of human rights defenders and land rights and environmental activists, and contrary to the requirements in section 7045(a) of division K of Public Law 114-113, including that civil society be able to “operate without interference” and called on Secretary Tillerson to: · Establish effective criteria for measuring compliance with such human rights conditions, with the input of representatives of Honduran human rights and other civil society organizations that have been targeted and in consultation with the relevant U.S. congressional committees. · Ensure effective scrutiny of whether such conditions are met, and if not met that assistance is withheld in accordance with U.S. law. · Provide transparency and public access to comprehensive information regarding U.S. bilateral and multilateral assistance for Honduras. · Work with the Department of the Treasury to oppose investments by International Financial Institutions in Honduran industries credibly implicated in human rights violations. · Urge the Honduran government to take vigorous steps to eradicate corruption; ensure the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous communities affected by extractive projects; protect human rights defenders and environmental activists; and end impunity for human rights violations. · Express strong and consistent support for the legitimate and important role of Honduran civil society organizations in Honduras. The letter from House Democrats was coordinated by Representatives Jim McGovern and Mark Pocan (WI) along with Representatives Jan Schakowsky (IL), Keith Ellison (MN), John Conyers, Jr. (MI) and Hank Johnson (GA). House Democrats joining Congressman McGovern on this week’s letter to President Trump were U.S. Representatives Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Keith Ellison (MN-05), John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), John Lewis (GA-05), Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03), Richard E. Neal (MA-01), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D.C.), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Peter Welch (VT-AL), Bobby L. Rush (IL-01), William Lacy Clay (MO-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Adam B. Schiff (CA-28), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Louise M. Slaughter (NY-25), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Judy Chu (CA-27), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Emanuel Cleaver, II (MO-05), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Peter A. DeFazio (OR-04), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-12), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Jared Polis (CO-02), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), John P. Sarbanes (MD-03), Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Paul D. Tonko (NY-20), Carol Shea-Porter (NH), Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07), Ted W. Lieu (CA-33), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Michael E. Capuano (MA-07), William R. Keating (MA-09), Danny K. Davis (IL-07), David E. Price (NC-04), and Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01). Full Text of the Letter Is Below: April 4, 2017 The Honorable Rex W. Tillerson Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson: We write to express our grave concern with the attacks against environmental and land activists, human rights defenders and local communities in Honduras. As you know, Congress has approved specific conditions to promote and protect human rights and address corruption in Honduras. We therefore urge the Administration to vigorously apply U.S. law related to assistance for, and investment in, Honduras. Just over one year ago, renowned Honduran indigenous activist Berta Cáceres was murdered. She had denounced 33 death threats against her and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights had previously tasked the Honduran government with providing her protective measures. Unfortunately, Ms. Cáceres’s death was part of a longstanding pattern of killings of human rights defenders and environmental activists who advocate for the protection of their natural resources, and journalists and others who expose corruption associated with extractive activities. On January 31st, the nongovernmental organization Global Witness published a report which concludes that Honduras is “the most dangerous place in the world to defend land rights and the environment,” with over 120 activists murdered since the coup d’état in 2009. The report details the widespread threats, attacks, stigmatization, and criminalization of civil society activists who raise concerns about the human rights, social and environmental impacts of hydropower, agribusiness, mining, logging and tourism projects. The report indicates that government officials, security forces, and business elites have colluded to impose extractive projects on indigenous, Afro-Honduran and campesino communities and to silence opposition. Lack of political will and weak institutions too often fail to respond effectively to these crimes, reinforcing impunity in Honduras. We are concerned with reports from these communities that their free, prior and informed consent is not being obtained in relation to the use of their land. Meanwhile, acts of corruption undermine laws governing environmental impact assessments, and conflicts of interest are ignored in order for extractive projects to proceed. We are concerned that U.S. assistance has been provided to the Honduran government despite recurring threats and assassinations of human rights defenders and land rights and environmental activists, and contrary to the requirements in section 7045(a) of division K of Public Law 114-113, including that civil society be able to “operate without interference.” Many of us are so troubled that we called for the suspension of U.S. military and security assistance and cosponsored the Berta Cáceres Human Rights in Honduras Act in the last Congress. Mr. Secretary, it is essential to ensure effective scrutiny of Honduras’ compliance with human rights conditions on U.S. assistance. In that regard, we call on you to: · Establish effective criteria for measuring compliance with such human rights conditions, with the input of representatives of Honduran human rights and other civil society organizations that have been targeted and in consultation with the relevant U.S. congressional committees. · Ensure effective scrutiny of whether such conditions are met, and if not met that assistance is withheld in accordance with U.S. law. · Provide transparency and public access to comprehensive information regarding U.S. bilateral and multilateral assistance for Honduras. · Work with the Department of the Treasury to oppose investments by International Financial Institutions in Honduran industries credibly implicated in human rights violations. · Urge the Honduran government to take vigorous steps to eradicate corruption; ensure the free, prior and informed consent of indigenous communities affected by extractive projects; protect human rights defenders and environmental activists; and end impunity for human rights violations. · Express strong and consistent support for the legitimate and important role of Honduran civil society organizations in Honduras. Thank you for your serious attention and consideration of these urgent matters. We look forward to your response and working together on these issues.
04.06.2017	U.S. Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Darrell Issa (R-CA) introduced the Cluster Munitions Civilian Protection Act this week, a bill to restrict the use and export of dangerous cluster munitions. Cluster munitions are bombs, rockets or artillery shells that contain submunitions that, when deployed, can leave behind unexploded ordnance. This unexploded ordnance can be buried in land, hidden from view or lay in plain sight and be mistaken for toys or even air-dropped assistance. They ultimately become harmful to civilians for generations. Cluster bombs have contaminated 24 countries including Laos, Lebanon and Ukraine. In 2015, civilians in at least eight countries died from these weapons. “Every year countless innocent civilians are injured and killed by cluster munitions, including U.S. made bombs which have recently been used in Yemen. As a world leader, America has a solemn responsibility to stand up for human rights and must join the more than 100 nations that have agreed to never again use or export these weapons by signing the Convention on Cluster Munitions,” said Congressman McGovern. “The lives and welfare of civilians, including young children, continue to be threatened in Yemen and elsewhere as they return to areas contaminated by cluster munitions, which are de facto minefields. Our bill would take strong steps to reduce harm to innocent civilians and strengthen our export controls, but this is only one step. President Trump and Secretary Mattis must take action and end the use of these indiscriminate weapons altogether.” “These indiscriminate weapons have left a legacy of unexploded munitions in war-torn areas,” said Senator Feinstein. “While the United States has not widely used cluster munitions since the 2003 invasion of Iraq, U.S.-made cluster bombs have recently been used in Yemen, endangering civilians. The United States should join the more than 100 nations that have agreed to never again use or export these weapons by signing the Convention on Cluster Munitions. This legislation would encourage the administration to do exactly that.” “Cluster munitions, which are scattered by the thousands over a wide area, have caused horrific suffering and death among civilians in every conflict in which they have been used, often years after the fighting ended,” said Senator Leahy. “Our bill would put in place strict criteria to reduce harm to innocents, but the Pentagon should end its use of these indiscriminate weapons.” To date, 100 nations have ratified the Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions, a 2008 treaty that prohibits the production, stockpiling, sale or use of cluster munitions. The United States has not signed or ratified the treaty, and while this legislation would not bring the United States into compliance, it moves the country much closer to the growing international consensus against cluster weapons. This bill builds on existing U.S. policies restricting the use of cluster munitions, and would ensure that exported U.S.-made cluster munitions do not endanger civilians. More specifically, the bill: • Prohibits the U.S. military from using cluster munitions if greater than one percent of the weapon’s submunitions result in unexploded ordnance. • Restricts cluster munition exports unless the receiving country agrees that they will be only used against clearly defined military targets and not in civilian areas. • Encourages the United States to accede to the Convention on Cluster Munitions as soon as possible. In the Senate, the legislation is cosponsored by Senators Feinstein, Leahy, Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.). In the House, the bill is cosponsored by Congressmen McGovern and Darrell Issa (R-Calif.). ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL) and U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) today introduced the Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act, a bipartisan, bicameral bill that would promote access to Tibetan areas by denying Chinese government officials access to the United States if they are responsible for creating or administering restrictions on American government officials, journalists, independent observers and tourists seeking to travel to Tibet. U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL), co-chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, introduced the bill in the House. “America needs to stand up for human rights at home and abroad. Both Democratic and Republican presidents have stressed the importance of protecting Tibet’s human rights and their unique religious, cultural and linguistic traditions, but we can and must do more,” said Congressman McGovern. “If the United States is serious about protecting human rights in Tibet, we need to do more than talk the talk – we need to walk the walk. This bill will ensure there are consequences for China’s repressive policies. I first introduced this bill in 2014 and I am proud to introduce it again today with our bipartisan co-sponsors. Now is the time for America to lead.” “The Chinese government’s oppression of Tibet includes keeping it off limits to Americans, journalists and others who can shine a bright light on the human rights violations committed daily against the Tibetan people,” said Rubio, chair of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China. “We should not accept a double standard where Chinese officials can freely visit anywhere in the U.S. while they block our diplomats, journalists and Tibetan-Americans from visiting Tibet. This bipartisan bill will hold China accountable for its oppression and make it clear that if Chinese government officials want to enjoy the privilege of entering the United States, they must allow equal access to Tibet.” “If the Chinese government stands by its ‘nothing to see here’ rhetoric about Tibet, than it should not be preventing U.S. government officials, journalists and citizens from visiting,” said Baldwin. “Access to Tibet is blocked precisely because of China’s widespread human rights violations there, including official oppression of Tibetans’ religious freedom, culture, language and autonomy. Chinese officials responsible for violations of democratic principles—and for hiding them through restricting U.S. citizen travel—should not expect to be allowed to travel freely in the United States—a country founded on those very principles.” “China’s harsh restrictions surrounding Tibet are well-known. It remains unacceptable for China’s officials to enjoy access throughout the United States, while our own diplomats, journalists and Tibetan-Americans are restricted from visiting Tibet,” said Hultgren, Commissioner on the Congressional-Executive Commission on China. “It’s time to end the double standard.” The Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act includes a national security waiver, and would require the U.S. Secretary of State to submit to Congress an assessment of the level of access to Tibet granted to American government officials, journalists, and tourists by Chinese officials. If the secretary determines that there are restrictions on travel to Tibet, the appropriate Chinese officials will be ineligible to enter the U.S. This legislation is supported by the International Campaign for Tibet. ###
03.30.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a leading voice in the fight against hunger, spoke on the House floor to continue raising awareness and highlight the partnership between Rise Against Hunger and Kraft Heinz, working together as global leaders in bringing food aid to millions around the world. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “Rise Against Hunger, under the leadership of Rod Brooks, is a charitable organization committed to ending global hunger by 2030. “They partner with other charities, faith-based organizations, and corporations to host meal packaging events across the country, where volunteers assemble nutritious meals that are sent to over 40 countries. “On Tuesday, I had the opportunity to participate in a Rise Against Hunger Meal Packaging Event sponsored by the Kraft Heinz Company. I joined 100 volunteers to package 7,500 meals that will reach hungry families across the globe. “Last year alone, Rise Against Hunger engaged over 387,000 volunteers at over 3,000 events nationwide to assemble over 64 million meals that reached nearly 1.1 million hungry people! “I applaud Kraft Heinz and its CEO Bernardo Hees for their commitment to packing 1 billion meals over the next five years, and I appreciate all that Rise Against Hunger does to address chronic malnutrition and alleviate poverty worldwide. “Working together, we can end hunger now.” ###
03.30.2017	“America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights in all countries and our allies must be no exception. Media reports indicate that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will soon lift all human rights conditions on the sale of F-16 fighter jets and other arms to Bahrain are deeply troubling. Such a move would be an extremely short-sighted and unprincipled choice that increases the risk of instability in Bahrain and puts America’s long-term security at risk." share: f t Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and the co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement in response to media reports that the Trump Administration plans to lift all human rights conditions on U.S. sales of F-16 fighter jets to Bahrain. “America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights in all countries and our allies must be no exception. Media reports indicate that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will soon lift all human rights conditions on the sale of F-16 fighter jets and other arms to Bahrain are deeply troubling. Such a move would be an extremely short-sighted and unprincipled choice that increases the risk of instability in Bahrain and puts America’s long-term security at risk. “In 2011, after brutally repressing peaceful citizen protests, the Bahraini regime promised the international community and its own citizens that it would start a national dialogue and take steps to satisfy the democratic aspirations of its people. While some progress was made, reforms have stalled, and in recent months I’ve received report after report of escalating repression. People have been arrested for tweeting and participating in protests, an opposition party has been dissolved and another has been targeted, and the ranks of political prisoners have grown to include leading clerics. “Last August, five U.N. human rights rapporteurs issued a joint statement expressing their concern that the Bahraini authorities were engaged in systematic harassment of the majority Shi’a population. There is nothing in Bahrain’s behavior that is deserving of the reward President Trump is reported to be considering. “Some of those who support this decision say that arms sales should be decided by America’s strategic interests. I agree with their premise but not with their conclusion. It is simply not in the U.S. strategic interest to support a government whose own actions deepen and harden sectarian divides, and close off opportunities for political solutions to long-standing problems. “Bahrain’s systematic repression of fundamental rights and constant attacks on people’s human dignity will only feed radicalization in Bahrain, just as it has throughout the region. We should be cooling the embers, not fanning the flames. I strongly oppose the decision of lift conditions on arms sales to Bahrain, and call on the Administration to reverse course immediately before it is too late.” ###
03.29.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led debate for House Democrats on the House floor against the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act, a bill from House Republicans that limits the participation of scientific experts at the EPA, and would lead to a disproportionate representation of big business and corporate special interests. Below are excerpts of today’s remarks. HOUSE GOP IGNORES REAL ISSUES “Today we are considering a piece of legislation that seeks to prevent the EPA from protecting public health and the environment. This bill was brought [up] in an emergency meeting last night. I think the American people have a pretty good idea of what is and what isn’t an emergency. “We have no shortage of actual emergencies that we should be dealing with – a devastating opioid epidemic, crumbling roads and bridges, mounting evidence of Russian meddling in our election, and people being killed every day due to gun violence, not to mention Flint, Michigan is still dealing with the residual health effects of toxically-polluted water. These are just a few examples of actual emergencies that Congress is doing nothing to address.” “As we learned last week, the American people are paying attention to what we do here. They are smart enough to know what an emergency is. And this bill isn’t addressing an emergency. it’s creating one!” GOP BILL ATTACKS SCIENCE, HELPS POLLUTERS “The Science Advisory Board at the EPA provides a way for the agency to use sound, independent, and objective scientific data to help make their decisions. “This bill limits the participation of scientific experts at the EPA, leading to a disproportionate representation of big business and corporate special interests. Are these really the people we want making decisions about the health of our kids and the policies that should be protecting our environment? “There’s nothing scientific about corruption and that’s exactly what this bill will open the door to. “This bill is about allowing the Republicans’ big corporate cronies a direct route to the decision-makers at the EPA. It’s about disrupting the EPA’s ability to fairly enforce the rules, hold corporate polluters accountable, and protect our health. It’s about undermining scientific fact with political cronyism. “Americans can’t afford to have the EPA run by people who live in a fantasy land where facts and science don’t matter. Our environment and the health of our families is too important. This bill defies logic, it defies reason. It will hurt the people who sent us here and it will help polluters. Republicans are putting corporate greed ahead of public health and the American people will be the ones who will suffer. Americans deserve better. We should be fighting for them.” FIRST GRADE SCIENCE LESSON FOR GOP “Let me tell my Republican friends what I tell first graders that I visit back in my district in Massachusetts. Science is important. It’s a big deal. “Scientists tell us things that are really important, like climate change is caused by greenhouse gases, something my Republican friends continually deny. They tell us that polluted air can give children asthma. They tell us that lead in children’s drinking water causes learning problems. They tell us pesticide exposure can cause cancer. These are important things. “You know, the first graders I speak to, they get it. They understand the importance of science. Unfortunately, many of my colleagues in this chamber do not. I would bet that those first graders understand the importance that it is scientists that sit on scientific advisory boards and not corporate cronies.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech Below: “ I rise in strong opposition to this rule and the underlying legislation. This is the 23rd closed rule of this short new Congress. Both Democrats and Republicans have been denied the opportunity to amend nearly 60 percent of the legislation that has been brought to the Floor through the Rules Committee. This effort by Speaker Ryan and the Republican leadership to halt a fair and open debate in the People’s House is outrageous. We're supposed to be a deliberative body - where both parties get to deliberate. These Putin-esque rules - that shut down all debate - need to stop. This isn't the Kremlin. “I think Representative Rooney – a Republican – said it best last week. Quote, “I’ve been in this job eight years, and I’m wracking my brain to think of one thing our party has done that’s been something positive, that’s been something other than stopping something else from happening,’ end quote. “Well, today we are considering a piece of legislation that seeks to prevent the EPA from protecting public health and the environment. Not exactly positive. This bill was brought to the Rules Committee in an emergency meeting last night. Let me emphasize that – an emergency meeting. “I think the American people have a pretty good idea of what is and what isn’t an emergency. A tree falls on your house? That’s an emergency. Your rose bush needs pruning? Not an emergency. Timmy fell down a well? That’s an emergency. Timmy might stub his toe? Not an emergency. On April 28th, the government will run out of money. That’s an emergency, even if it is self-inflicted by the Republicans. “And we have no shortage of other ACTUAL emergencies that we should be dealing with – a devastating opioid epidemic, crumbling roads and bridges, mounting evidence of Russian meddling in our election, and people being killed every day due to gun violence, not to mention Flint, Michigan is still dealing with the residual health effects of toxically-polluted water. These are just a few examples of actual emergencies that Congress is doing NOTHING to address. “Instead, the underlying bill -- the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act -- was brought to the Rules Committee and to the House floor as emergency legislation. As we learned last week, the American people are paying attention to what we do here. They are smart enough to know what an emergency is. And this bill isn’t addressing an emergency. it’s creating one! “The Science Advisory Board at the EPA provides a way for the agency to use sound, independent, and objective scientific data to help make their decisions. Science, you may have heard of it. It’s kind of a big deal. “But this bill won’t help the EPA to include more scientists in their decisions – it will force them to include people with potential financial conflicts of interest on the Science Advisory Board, so long as they disclose them. Do we really want people on our advisory boards if they could profit from a decision they are about to make? There’s nothing scientific about corruption and that’s exactly what this bill will open the door to. “This bill also limits the participation of scientific experts at the EPA, leading to a disproportionate representation of big business and corporate special interests. Are these really the people we want making decisions about the health of our kids and the policies that should be protecting our environment? Is that what we want? “So what is this bill really about? It’s about allowing the Republican’s big corporate cronies a direct route to the decision-makers at the EPA. It’s about disrupting the EPA’s ability to fairly enforce the rules, hold corporate polluters accountable, and protect our health. It’s about undermining scientific fact with political cronyism. Maybe things have changed lately – it’s been a while since my last science class – but I’m pretty sure there’s no step in the scientific method that says “consult corporate cronies.” “The truth is that this Republican majority wants the EPA to base their decisions on fiction, not fact. Americans can’t afford to have the EPA run by people who live in a fantasy land where facts and science don’t matter. Our environment and the health of our families is too important. This law is going to have real life consequences. It will undermine science, hurt the environment, and help polluters. “We need to allow the EPA to make decisions based on fact. We need to ensure the EPA is always free from financial conflicts – not making decisions based on panels filled with industry insiders like the ones this bill would create. “This bill defies logic, it defies reason, and it defies sanity. It will hurt the people who sent us here and it will help polluters. Republicans are putting corporate greed ahead of public health and the American people will be the ones who will suffer. Americans deserve better. We should be fighting for them. “Let me tell my Republican friends what I tell first graders that I visit back in my district in Massachusetts when I go to visit their schools. I usually begin by telling them that science is important. It’s a big deal. And it’s such a big deal that all our schools teach it. And if you do your homework, and you study hard, and you pay attention, you might grow up someday to become a scientist. “Scientists are people who dedicate their lives to protect the health and well-being of all over the world. And they dedicate their lives to protect our planet. Scientists tell us things that are really important, like climate change is caused by greenhouse gases, something my Republican friends continually deny. They tell us that polluted air can give children asthma. They tell us that lead in children’s drinking water causes learning problems. They tell us pesticide exposure can cause cancer. These are important things. “And we all learned in school, thanks to science, that the Earth orbits around the sun. That gravity causes this pen to fall when I drop it. That plants turn sunshine into energy. That dinosaurs roamed the earth millions of years ago. “You know, the first graders I speak to, they get it. They understand the importance of science. Unfortunately, many of my colleagues in this chamber do not. I would bet that those first graders understand the importance that it is scientists that sit on scientific advisory boards and not corporate cronies.” ###
03.24.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat who has been a leading voice in the push to protect the Affordable Care Act, released the following statement in response to the announcement by President Trump and Speaker Ryan that House Republicans have canceled the vote on the Affordable Health Care Act. “Today is a victory for the millions of Americans who would have lost their healthcare and been forced to pay more for less coverage under Trumpcare. This bill was nothing but a tax cut for billionaires paid for by taking healthcare away from 24 million Americans. Today is a reminder that the real power in our democracy is with the people. Thank you to everyone in Massachusetts who made their voices heard. This wouldn’t have been possible without you.” ###
03.24.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the top Democrat leading debate today against the American Health Care Act, delivered the following speech on the House floor in an appeal to the compassion of both Republicans and Democrats to stand up for the families they represent and stop this dangerous bill from becoming law. “I remind my colleagues that we’re supposed to care about one another and especially the most vulnerable in our society. “In this era of Trump, Washington has become a mean place. It’s become a place where it has become unfashionable to worry about the poor, about older Americans, and about those who struggle. “There’s absolutely no justification for giving huge tax breaks to billionaires. A trillion dollars in tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires. And at the same time, throwing 24 million people off of healthcare and denying millions more essential healthcare protections. “There are only two ways you can vote for this bill. One is, you don’t know what’s in the bill. Or two is, you have to have a heart of stone. Because this bill is shameful. It’s going to hurt people. It’s going to hurt your constituents. “Withdraw this bill or vote no on this bill, but this bill cannot become law. The healthcare protections for the American people are too important. I urge all my colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, reject this, vote no.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Closing Statement: “I would say to my colleagues that this is a sad day for this institution. This process has been awful. But this is an even sadder day for the American people. “I remind my colleagues that we’re supposed to care about one another and especially the most vulnerable in our society. “In this era of Trump, Washington has become a mean place. It’s become a place where it has become unfashionable to worry about the poor, about older Americans, and about those who struggle. “There’s absolutely no justification for giving huge tax breaks to billionaires. A trillion dollars in tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires. And at the same time, throwing 24 million people off of healthcare and denying millions more essential healthcare protections. “Twenty-four million people. I think my Republican colleagues have lost their human ability to feel what that means. That’s the entire population of Australia. “I have a great deal of respect for my colleagues, but when I look at this bill and I read this bill, I have to wonder, ‘What are you thinking? How could you do this?’ And I’ve come to the conclusion that there are only two ways you can vote for this bill. One is, you don’t know what’s in the bill. Or two is, you have to have a heart of stone. Because this bill is shameful. It’s going to hurt people. It’s going to hurt your constituents. “Withdraw this bill or vote no on this bill, but this bill cannot become law. The healthcare protections for the American people are too important. I urge all my colleagues, both Democrats and Republicans, reject this, vote no.” ###
03.23.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led floor debate for House Democrats as Republicans began the process for consideration of the American Health Care Act (AHCA). Congressman McGovern – who was the top Democrat at the more than 12-hour markup of the bill last night – called out Republicans for rushing the bill to a vote without any hearings or input from experts. Congressman McGovern also called out Republicans for refusing to even tell members of Congress what is in the bill, which has constantly been changing as President Trump and Republican leadership have scrambled to get their members to support the bill. Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech Excerpts Below: “Republican Leadership and the White House are huddled behind closed doors as we speak, making deals that will have very real, very serious, very dangerous consequences for millions and millions of Americans. “According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office analysis – and this is truly incredible – this bill would actually result in more people being uninsured than if the Affordable Care Act were simply repealed. Let that sink in for a minute. “In fact, Americans aged 50-64 will pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage, no matter how healthy they are. This bill is an age tax, plain and simple. And Republicans are cutting $880 billion from Medicaid! That’s a 25 percent cut in funding. “This ‘reverse Robin Hood’ will steal from the working class and give to the wealthy. Under the Republican plan, 2.8 Billion dollars – that’s billion with a B – in tax breaks will go the 400 richest families in America each year. “Now my colleagues on the other side of the aisle seem to be rushing this through in hopes that no one will figure out that it’s a tax break for the rich masquerading as a healthcare bill. “Let me just remind my colleagues again that we’re talking about people’s lives here. I’m pretty sure the middle-class Americans who Republicans claim to be helping would be okay with delaying this reckless bill for a little while to give us a chance to find out what the impacts will be! “Don’t jam a disastrous bill through the House with patched-up fixes. Wait for a revised CBO score. Listen to what members of your own conference are saying. Or better yet, don’t do this at all. Let’s go back to the drawing board. It’s clear Republicans never really had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. Don’t pretend you did and then make our most vulnerable pay the consequences.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks Are Below: “We aren’t here to debate the Republican health care repeal plan. We aren’t here to debate that, because Republican Leadership and the White House are huddled behind closed doors as we speak, making deals that will have very real, very serious, very dangerous consequences for millions and millions of Americans. Instead, we’re here to debate a martial law rule that will allow Republicans to rush their bill with its brand-new backroom deals to the floor today without any proper deliberation. “As a matter of fact, it would let them rush any bill to the floor today – or any day through Monday. It’s a blanket martial law rule that lasts past the weekend – not specific to their health care bill, and not even specific to the topic of health care! What other bills could they be contemplating considering? We saw the Buffalo Bribe is already in the manager’s amendment, but this rule lets them bring up any other bill before the public has a chance to know what it is. Something on the Russia investigation, perhaps? I’ve seen a lot on that in the news lately. Or maybe we’ll give President Trump’s friend Putin a Congressional Gold Medal. It’s the least the Republicans could do after his help with the election! “But let’s talk about what we have learned so far in the press. We first learned from news reports last night that Republicans were considering changes to the bill that would kill the Essential Health Benefits in current law. “Let me say that again. Essential – as in “absolutely necessary; extremely important” as defined by the dictionary. “And sure enough, we reported out this martial law rule in the dark of night, which will allow Republicans to bring the new and unimproved version of the bill – again, now with even more backroom deals – to the Rules Committee later today, or in the dead of night, and take it straight to the House Floor. “Apparently, there’s no time for it to even sit for one day so members can read it, let alone get analysis from the non-partisan experts at CBO. “Are they hoping that if they move quickly enough, no one will figure out what they’re up to? "Well let me lay it out for everyone: essential health benefits require insurance plans to cover basic, essential benefits such as: emergency services, maternity care, mental health care and substance abuse treatment, pediatric services, and prescription drugs. “The New York Times this morning pointed out that this late-breaking Republican proposal could lead to plans that cover aromatherapy, but not chemotherapy. Really? Are Republicans seriously contemplating making a change this massive without hearings? Without a markup? No CBO estimate of the impact? No chance to read the bill??? I've seen a lot in my years here, but this is truly unbelievable. You guys take my breath away. “And that’s not even considering the already-dangerous bill we were supposed to be down here considering right now. Let me just make clear what that bill actually is. “First, it is a massive tax cut for millionaires and billionaires, paid for by taking health insurance away from 24 million people. Period. “Anyone who takes five minutes to look at any unbiased analysis of the bill knows that this is true. Massive tax cuts for the well-off, at the expense of 24 million people. Let me paint a picture of how big that number is: 24 million people is basically the entire population of the country of Australia. It is more people than live in the states of Kansas, New Mexico, Nebraska, West Virginia, Idaho, Hawaii, New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode Island, Montana, Delaware, South Dakota, North Dakota, Alaska, Vermont, Wyoming, and the District of Columbia – combined. “You know how I know the bill is a tax giveaway for the wealthy, and not a health care bill? "Because according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office analysis – and this is truly incredible – it would actually result in more people being uninsured than if the Affordable Care Act were simply repealed. Let that sink in for a minute. “Second, their bill will cause people to pay more out of pocket dollars, for lower quality health insurance. That’s right, Republicans are asking people to pay more for less coverage. In particular, lower-income and older Americans will see their costs skyrocket – those people who can least afford to pay more. “Third point, and this is a big one: the bill guts Medicaid and Medicare. “Don’t take it from me: the AARP said, and I quote, ‘This bill would weaken Medicare’s fiscal sustainability, dramatically increase health care costs for Americans aged 50-64, and put at risk the health care of millions of children and adults with disabilities, and poor seniors who depend on the Medicaid program for long-term services and supports and other benefits.’ “In fact, Americans aged 50-64 will pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage, no matter how healthy they are. This bill is an age tax, plain and simple. And Republicans are cutting $880 billion from Medicaid! That’s a 25 percent cut in funding. “All this, to give tax cuts to the rich and to corporations. The bill must look like a cruel joke to the most vulnerable among us. “Representative Mo Brooks, a member of the Republican Conference, said just the other night, and I quote, ‘Quite frankly, I’m persuaded that this republican healthcare bill, long term, is a detriment to the future of the United States of America.’ “Finally, even before imposing martial law last night, this process was horrendous. The Republican majority rushed their bill through the committee process without any hearings. None. Zero. Just holding marathon markups where no Democratic amendments were accepted. None. Not one. They didn’t even wait for a CBO score! “Then, when a score finally came, it showed that the bill would kick 24 million people off their insurance. Did they stop then? No! Of course Not! “Yesterday, in the Rules Committee, we rushed ahead with a cobbled-together managers amendment – I’m sorry, four cobbled-together managers amendments, since the originals had errors – and again, no CBO score on the updated bill. Didn’t my colleagues learn their lesson from last week? “And even worse – the main manager’s amendment, which we received just 36 hours before our meeting, is so full of backroom deals like the Buffalo Bribe, a cynical and likely unconstitutional agreement with wavering New York Republicans who know the republican healthcare plan would devastate New York. “And now, they’re saying ‘Don’t Worry. If you don’t like this bill, it’s just step one of three. You’ll get another chance to vote on Healthcare during step three.’ Never mind that they can’t give us the full slate of bills that are part of this mysterious step three. “Or maybe I should just take Republican Senator Cotton’s word for it. He said, and I quote, ‘There is no three-step plan. That is just political talk. It’s just politicians engaging in spin.’ “Republican Senator Ted Cruz, from my colleague’s state of Texas, called the third prong of this three-bucket strategy, and I quote “the sucker’s bucket.” That’s your own member calling you a sucker if you vote for this! “We heard testimony all day yesterday, and well into the night, about how disastrous this bill would be for hard working Americans. We heard about how countless major health organizations oppose this plan from the American Medical Association, to American Hospital Association, to the National Rural Health Association, to the AARP, to the American Society of Addiction Medicine, to the National Alliance on Mental Illness – and I could go on and on and on. “This ‘reverse Robin Hood’ will steal from the working class and give to the wealthy. Under the Republican plan, 2.8 Billion dollars – that’s billion with a B – in tax breaks will go the 400 richest families in America each year. “Now my colleagues on the other side of the aisle seem to be rushing this through in hopes that no one will figure out that it’s a tax break for the rich masquerading as a healthcare bill. And now, we find ourselves on the floor debating a martial-law rule that will take this reckless process from ‘light-speed’ to ‘warp-speed.’ “Let me just remind my colleagues again that we’re talking about people’s lives here. I’m pretty sure the middle-class Americans who Republicans claim to be helping would be okay with delaying this reckless bill for a little while to give us a chance to find out what the impacts will be! “This process is beyond the pale. I’m honestly still stunned that we’re even here debating a martial law rule on legislation of this magnitude when changes to people’s basic essential health benefits are being contemplated without so much as a single hearing, let alone a CBO score. And again – we have no real clue what Republicans will be bringing to the floor later today. “Now -- I’m just going off of what I read in the news, since we haven’t gotten any actual updates from the other side of the aisle. “This rule would allow them to bring anything to the floor today. Or tomorrow. Or Saturday. Or Sunday. Or Monday. Literally anything. “Will there be a new bill? Who knows! Will it even be on health care? Beats me! “What mystery changes are they contemplating that are so broad they can’t even narrow their martial law authority down to the topic of healthcare? “Please, I would ask my colleagues to slow down! Be thoughtful – this is not a game. You don’t get extra points for being fast. This health care repeal affects millions upon millions of Americans. “Don’t jam a disastrous bill through the House with patched-up fixes. Wait for a revised CBO score. Listen to what members of your own conference are saying. Or better yet, don’t do this at all. Let’s go back to the drawing board. It’s clear Republicans never really had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. Don’t pretend you did and then make our most vulnerable pay the consequences. “This is a sad day. This is a sad day for this institution, but it is an even sadder day for the American people.” ###
03.22.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the top Democrat at today’s House Rules Committee markup of the American Health Care Act, criticized Republicans for rushing the bill to the House floor for a vote tomorrow without any analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) on the costs of the new version of the bill. The CBO estimated that the first version of the bill would result in 24 million Americans losing healthcare. Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s hearing was fellow Massachusetts Congressman Richard Neal (D-MA), who is the Ranking Member of the House Ways & Means Committee. Both McGovern and Neal spoke about how Massachusetts has been a leader in healthcare reform and how the Republican bill would threaten healthcare access for Massachusetts families. Below are excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s opening statement as prepared for delivery. TAX CUT FOR WEALTHY, MILLIONS LOSE COVERAGE “You know how I know this bill is a tax giveaway for the wealthy, and not a health care bill? Because according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office analysis – and this is truly incredible – it would actually result in more people being uninsured than if the Affordable Care Act were simply repealed. Let that sink in for a minute. “Second, this bill will cause people to pay more out of pocket dollars, for lower quality health insurance. You’re asking people to pay more for less coverage. In particular, lower-income and older Americans will see their costs skyrocket – those people who can least afford to pay more. “This bill guts Medicaid and Medicare. Americans aged 50-64 will pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage, no matter how healthy they are. This bill is an age tax, plain and simple. And you’re cutting $880 billion from Medicaid! That’s a 25 percent cut in funding. All this, to give tax cuts to the rich and to corporations? The bill must look like a cruel joke to the most vulnerable among us.” GOP STEAMROLLING VOTE ON TRUMPCARE “The Republican Majority rushed their bill through the committee process without any hearings, just holding marathon markups where no Democratic amendments were accepted. They didn’t even wait for a CBO score. Then when the score finally came, it showed the bill would kick 24 million people off their insurance. Did they stop then? No, of course not. “We’re still full steam ahead, only now we have a cobbled-together manager’s amendment – I’m sorry, four cobbled-together manager’s amendments, since the originals had errors – and again no CBO score. Didn’t you learn your lesson last week? And even worse, this manager’s amendment, which we received just 36 hours ago, is full of backroom deals like the Buffalo Bribe, a cynical agreement with wavering New York Republicans who know the Republican healthcare plan would devastate New York. “And now they’re saying, ‘don’t worry if you don’t like this bill, it’s just step one of three – you’ll get another chance to vote on health care during step three,’ never mind that they can’t give us the full slate of bills that are part of this mysterious ‘step three.’ Or maybe I should just take Senator Cotton’s word for it – he said, quote, ‘there is no three-step plan. That is just political talk. It’s just politicians engaging in spin,’ end quote. Ted Cruz called the third prong of this ‘three-bucket’ strategy quote, ‘the sucker’s bucket,” end quote. The sucker’s bucket. “Please, slow down! Think about what you’re doing. Don’t jam this disastrous bill through the House with patched-up fixes. Wait for a revised CBO score. Listen to what members of your own conference are saying. Or better yet, don’t do this at all. It’s clear you never really had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. Don’t pretend you did and then make our most vulnerable pay the consequences.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Opening Statement: As Prepared for Delivery “First, let me just lay out what the bill actually is. It is a massive tax cut for millionaires and billionaires, paid for by taking health insurance away from 24 million people. Period. “Anyone who takes five minutes to look at any unbiased analysis of the bill knows that this is true. Massive tax cuts for the well-off, at the expense of 24 million people. Let me paint a picture of how big that number is: 24 million people is basically the entire population of the country of Australia. It is more people than live in the states of Kansas, New Mexico, Nebraska, West Virginia, Idaho, Hawaii, New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode Island, Montana, Delaware, South Dakota, North Dakota, Alaska, Vermont, Wyoming, and the District of Columbia – combined. “You know how I know this bill is a tax giveaway for the wealthy, and not a health care bill? Because according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office analysis – and this is truly incredible – it would actually result in more people being uninsured than if the Affordable Care Act were simply repealed. Let that sink in for a minute. “Second, this bill will cause people to pay more out of pocket dollars, for lower quality health insurance. You’re asking people to pay more for less coverage. In particular, lower-income and older Americans will see their costs skyrocket – those people who can least afford to pay more. “Third point, and this is a big one: this bill guts Medicaid and Medicare. Don’t take it from me: the AARP said, and I quote, “This bill would weaken Medicare’s fiscal sustainability, dramatically increase health care costs for Americans aged 50-64, and put at risk the health care of millions of children and adults with disabilities, and poor seniors who depend on the Medicaid program for long-term services and supports and other benefits.” End quote. “In fact, Americans aged 50-64 will pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage, no matter how healthy they are. This bill is an age tax, plain and simple. And you’re cutting $880 billion from Medicaid! That’s a 25 percent cut in funding. All this, to give tax cuts to the rich and to corporations? The bill must look like a cruel joke to the most vulnerable among us. “Representative Mo Brooks, a member of the Republican Conference, said just last night, quote, “Quite frankly, I’m persuaded that this Republican healthcare bill…long-term, is a detriment to the future of the United States of America.” “Finally, this process is horrendous. The Republican Majority rushed their bill through the committee process without any hearings, just holding marathon markups where no Democratic amendments were accepted. They didn’t even wait for a CBO score. Then when the score finally came, it showed the bill would kick 24 million people off their insurance. Did they stop then? No, of course not. “We’re still full steam ahead, only now we have a cobbled-together manager’s amendment – I’m sorry, four cobbled-together manager’s amendments, since the originals had errors – and again no CBO score. Didn’t you learn your lesson last week? And even worse, this manager’s amendment, which we received just 36 hours ago, is full of backroom deals like the Buffalo Bribe, a cynical agreement with wavering New York Republicans who know the Republican healthcare plan would devastate New York. “And now they’re saying, “don’t worry if you don’t like this bill, it’s just step one of three – you’ll get another chance to vote on health care during step three,” never mind that they can’t give us the full slate of bills that are part of this mysterious “step three.” Or maybe I should just take Senator Cotton’s word for it – he said, quote, “there is no three-step plan. That is just political talk. It’s just politicians engaging in spin,” end quote. Ted Cruz called the third prong of this “three-bucket” strategy quote, “the sucker’s bucket,” end quote. The sucker’s bucket. “Please, slow down! Think about what you’re doing. Don’t jam this disastrous bill through the House with patched-up fixes. Wait for a revised CBO score. Listen to what members of your own conference are saying. Or better yet, don’t do this at all. It’s clear you never really had a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. Don’t pretend you did and then make our most vulnerable pay the consequences.” ###
03.20.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a leading anti-hunger champion, joined local Meals on Wheels volunteers in Webster to help deliver meals to Central Massachusetts seniors in need. The local chapter of Meals on Wheels serves nearly 500 seniors in 13 different communities in Central Massachusetts. Today’s meal delivery to seniors with Congressman McGovern is part of his continued effort to raise awareness about the difference the program makes and fight back against the proposed funding cuts in President Trump’s budget that would hurt Meals on Wheels. Click here to view full-size photos of today’s event. “America is the richest country in the world, but every year nearly 6 million seniors struggle with hunger. Thanks to Meals on Wheels and local organizations like Tri-Valley Inc., we’re helping to change that,” Congressman McGovern said. “Senior hunger is a problem we can solve, but not without these great organizations. President Trump’s budget would recklessly cut $3 billion from community development block grants that help fund Meals on Wheels. We need strong investments to help fight senior hunger. Not only is it the right thing to do, it’s also cost effective, because keeping seniors in their homes with access to nutritious food is less expensive than providing nursing-home care. We need to ensure that seniors aren't falling through the cracks and that they aren't going hungry. I am grateful to our local leaders and volunteers with Meals on Wheels and proud to support the work they do to help seniors in need.” Joining Congressman McGovern for today’s Meals on Wheels delivery were members of Tri-Valley Inc., a non-profit serving seniors in Central Massachusetts, and local volunteers. “Helping our Central Massachusetts seniors stay independent and get the nutritious meals they need is one of Tri-Valley’s top priorities. We are proud to work with Congressman McGovern and Meals on Wheels to serve our local communities and help to stop senior hunger,” Tri-Valley Inc. Executive Director and CEO Marilyn L. Travinski said. Meals on Wheels America is the oldest and largest national organization supporting the more than 5,000 community-based senior nutrition programs across the country that are dedicated to addressing senior hunger and isolation. This network exists in virtually every community in America and, along with more than two million volunteers, delivers the nutritious meals, friendly visits and safety checks that enable America’s seniors to live nourished lives with independence and dignity. By providing funding, leadership, research, education and advocacy support, Meals on Wheels America empowers its local member programs to strengthen their communities, one senior at a time. Click Here to Learn More about Meals on Wheels. ###
03.16.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading champion for anti-poverty programs, condemned President Trump’s budget proposal for its dangerous cuts that will hurt millions of families across the country. “President Trump talks about helping America’s forgotten men and women, but his reckless budget does just the opposite. In my 20 years in Congress, I have never seen such a heartless, cruel, and dangerous budget. America has a proud tradition of stepping up to make investments needed to keep us safe, strengthen our economy, and lift up the least among us. President Trump’s budget takes a butcher’s knife to these vital programs and devastates working families across the country. “The President’s budget asks the American people to pay billions for the construction of a border wall while decimating America’s investments in jobs, education, clean energy and lifesaving medical research. President Trump talks about creating jobs, but he is cutting the education and skills training programs that enable our workers to secure the good-paying jobs they need to succeed in today’s economy. The very programs that help middle class families most are those that are hit the hardest. “America has a responsibility to show strong leadership on the world stage. President Trump’s drastic cuts to the State Department and vital diplomacy and humanitarian efforts like the McGovern-Dole international school feeding program is a dangerous step backward that weakens our role as a global leader. “President Trump’s budget shifts the burden off of the wealthy and special interests and puts it on the backs of the middle class and the many hardworking families trying to get there. Cuts to economic development funding for urban and rural areas as well as critical housing programs will weaken our economy and communities. President Trump’s cuts to programs that literally help to feed seniors, women, and children and keep low-income families warm during the winter months is one of the cruelest things I’ve ever seen. “A president’s budget is a message to the American people about what their values are. Today President Trump is declaring that Republicans’ top priority is giving tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans while taking essential services away from everyone else.” ###
03.10.2017	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) reintroduced H.J. Res. 88, the People’s Rights Amendment, a bill to overturn Citizens United, the U.S. Supreme Court ruling that lifted restrictions on spending of outside groups on elections. In a speech on the House floor, Congressman McGovern spoke about how Citizens United opened the floodgates to corporate spending in politics which drowns out the voices of ordinary citizens. Congressman McGovern was one of the first national leaders to speak out against Citizens United in 2011 and is the lead sponsor of the Democracy for All Amendment. Joining Congressman McGovern today to introduce H.J Res. 88 were Representatives Stephen Lynch (MA-08), Steven Cohen (TN-09), Jim Langevin (RI-02), Peter Defazio (OR), Bill Keating (MA-09), Mark Takano (CA-41) Peter Welch (VT-AL), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Michael Capuano (MA-07), Jim Cooper (TN-05), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) and David Loebsack (IA-02). Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “It’s been seven years since the dreadful Citizens United ruling. In upholding the rights of corporations to donate to political campaigns under the First Amendment, the Supreme Court created an election system that is now corrupted by limitless, unregulated donations. Ordinary citizens are left powerless and politicians are increasingly beholden to wealthy special interests. Since Citizens United, we’ve seen a major telecommunications company, oil companies, and the tobacco industry all attempt to dismantle regulations and disclosure rules by claiming First Amendment rights. Today, I am reintroducing the People’s Rights Amendment to overturn Citizens United and declare, once and for all, that corporations are not people. The Constitution was never intended to give corporations the same rights as the American people. Corporations don’t breathe. They don’t have kids. They don’t die in wars. “The preamble to the Constitution is ‘We the People,’ not ‘We the Corporations.’ Let us hope this Congress doesn’t forget that.” ###
03.03.2017	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Committee Nutrition Subcommittee, led a group of 18 House Democrats on the Agriculture Committee calling on House Budget Committee Chairman Diane Black (R-TN) and Ranking Member John Yarmuth (D-KY) to protect funding for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), the top anti-hunger program in the country. Click here to view the letter online. SNAP currently serves about 43 million Americans in both urban and rural areas, and its entitlement structure allows the program to expand during times of economic hardship and contract as conditions improve. SNAP provides the most vulnerable Americans with a modest nutrition assistance benefit—on average, just $1.40 per person, per meal—to supplement their food budgets. And among those households that can work, the vast majority do in the year before or after receiving benefits.” In today’s letter, McGovern and House Democrats write that “SNAP is our nation’s best chance to alleviate hunger across our country. Each year, SNAP provides millions of children, seniors, veterans, and other vulnerable adults with food assistance. It is an efficient and effective program that helps families lift themselves out of poverty, and cuts extreme poverty almost in half. SNAP improves health, educational, and economic outcomes, and increases the incomes of working families. Recent innovations in the program have encouraged healthier eating and have increased SNAP participants’ consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables. An increase in SNAP benefits would likely only improve these outcomes, with recent research confirming that just a $30 increase in monthly SNAP benefits for households could lead to healthier eating and lower rates of food insecurity.” McGovern and House Democrats write that “Far too many Americans continue to struggle with food insecurity in the United States, and we must preserve the dignity and health of the most vulnerable among us through the basic and reliable food assistance provided by SNAP. We strongly urge you to maintain the entitlement structure of SNAP and reject any attempts to further cut funding or place additional burdens on those looking to access these modest benefits.” RECENT HEARINGS During the 114th Congress, the House Agriculture Committee undertook a thorough review of SNAP, holding 18 hearings, hearing more than 30 hours of testimony from over 60 experts which resulted in 830 pages of official hearing record. Both conservative and liberal experts testified that: SNAP benefits should not be cut and the current benefits are inadequate; SNAP does not discourage program participants from working; Case management and job training programs can help to move people out of poverty and These efforts require a well-funded, multi-year commitment. COST SAVINGS In today’s letter the lawmakers highlight how the success of SNAP will create new cost savings: Between 2007 and 2012, SNAP caseloads and spending grew as a result of the most recent economic recession, but that was to be expected. As the economic recovery continues, SNAP participation has declined in recent years. As a result of this decline and other factors like low food inflation, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that SNAP will save over $92 billion over 10 years. FOOD ASSISTANCE CUT OFF IN STATES However, the lawmakers point out that the recent decrease in SNAP participation is due in part to the return of the three-month time limit in 20 states for non-disabled childless adults who are working less than 20 hours a week. The lawmakers write that “this time limit has resulted in over a million people losing SNAP benefits in 2016 alone—not based on whether they still need assistance, but because of arbitrary time limits. Further, states are not required to provide job training slots, so some of these vulnerable people lose food assistance even if they are looking for work, but cannot find a job. That is a problem Congress should be trying to fix, not worsen.” Joining Congressman McGovern on today’s letter were the following House Agriculture Committee Democrats: Representatives Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Tim Walz (MN-01), Rick Nolan (MN-08), David Scott (GA-13), Filemon Vela (TX-34), Alma Adams (NC-12), Jimmy Pannetta (CA-20), Darren Soto (FL-09), Anne McLane Kuster (NH-02), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Tom O’Halleran (AZ-01), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Stacey Plaskett (VI), Al Lawson (FL-05), Jim Costa (CA-16), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), and Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE), Full Text of Letter to the House Budget Committee on Protecting SNAP is below: March 3, 2017 The Honorable Diane Black The Honorable John Yarmuth Chairman Ranking Member Committee on the Budget Committee on the Budget B-234 Longworth House Office Building 134 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Black and Ranking Member Yarmuth: As Members of the Committee on Agriculture, we write to provide additional views to the Committee’s Budget Views and Estimates letter that was considered and adopted by the Committee on March 1, 2017. We appreciate the opportunity to provide these additional views. One of our Committee’s most significant areas of jurisdiction is the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as food stamps. SNAP is our nation’s best chance to alleviate hunger across our country. It provides our most vulnerable neighbors with a modest nutrition assistance benefit—on average, just $1.40 per person, per meal—to supplement their food budgets. The program currently serves about 43 million Americans in both urban and rural areas, and its entitlement structure allows the program to expand during times of economic hardship and contract as conditions improve. Among those households that can work, the vast majority do in the year before or after receiving benefits. During the 114th Congress, the House Agriculture Committee undertook a thorough review of SNAP. We held 18 hearings and heard more than 30 hours of testimony from over 60 experts which resulted in 830 pages of official hearing record. We learned from experts—conservative and liberal—that SNAP benefits should not be cut, and that current benefits are inadequate. We also learned that SNAP does not discourage work, and that case management and job training programs can be successful in helping to move people out of poverty, but those efforts require a well-funded, multi-year commitment. Each year, SNAP provides millions of children, seniors, veterans, and other vulnerable adults with food assistance. It is an efficient and effective program that helps families lift themselves out of poverty, and cuts extreme poverty almost in half. SNAP improves health, educational, and economic outcomes, and increases the incomes of working families. Recent innovations in the program have encouraged healthier eating and have increased SNAP participants’ consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables. An increase in SNAP benefits would likely only improve these outcomes, with recent research confirming that just a $30 increase in monthly SNAP benefits for households could lead to healthier eating and lower rates of food insecurity. Between 2007 and 2012, SNAP caseloads and spending grew as a result of the most recent economic recession, but that was to be expected. Indeed, the program worked as it was intended and expanded to respond quickly and effectively to an economic downturn. As our economy continues to recover, SNAP participation has declined during the past several years. Because of this decline in SNAP participation and other factors like low food inflation, recent projections from the Congressional Budget Office estimate that SNAP will save over $92 billion over 10 years as compared to baseline projections used to write the 2014 Farm Bill. We caution the Committee, however, that some of the caseload decline is attributable to the return of the three-month time limit in 20 states for non-disabled childless adults who are working less than 20 hours a week. Indeed, this time limit has resulted in over a million people losing SNAP benefits in 2016 alone—not based on whether they still need assistance, but because of arbitrary time limits. Further, states are not required to provide job training slots, so some of these vulnerable people lose food assistance even if they are looking for work, but cannot find a job. That is a problem Congress should be trying to fix, not worsen. Far too many Americans continue to struggle with food insecurity in the United States, and we must preserve the dignity and health of the most vulnerable among us through the basic and reliable food assistance provided by SNAP. We strongly urge you to maintain the entitlement structure of SNAP and reject any attempts to further cut funding or place additional burdens on those looking to access these modest benefits. Thank you for considering our additional views. We look forward to working with you and with Members of the Committee on the Budget on this critical issue. Sincerely, ###
03.02.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice calling for a full investigation into the ties between the Trump White House and Russia, called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign following revelations that Sessions lied under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee about his contacts with Russia during the 2016 election. “It is now clear that Attorney General Jeff Sessions lied under oath to Congress about his contact with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign. During his Senate confirmation hearing, he said ‘I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians.’ We now know that statement is not true. “Attorney General Jeff Sessions was already unfit to investigate the ties between the Trump White House and Russia because of his senior role on the 2016 Trump campaign. With this new evidence that he lied about his own contact with Russian officials during the campaign, it is clear that Attorney General Jeff Sessions is not fit to serve as the top law enforcement officer of our country and must resign now. “Americans deserve the truth about the full extent of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election and attack on our democracy. We need a full and independent, bipartisan commission to investigate the political, personal and financial connections of President Trump to the Russians. The time for action is now.” ###
02.28.2017	This week U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress on human rights, met with Ibrahim Ahmed Omer, Speaker of the Sudanese Parliament. In the meeting, Congressman McGovern reiterated his strong disagreement with the easing of U.S. sanctions against the Government of Sudan, an action taken at the end of the Obama Administration. Congressman McGovern expressed that the Sudanese Congress, and the Speaker in particular, have been responsible for authorizing many of the most repressive actions carried out by the regime of President Bashir, and therefore are accountable for the murder of millions of their fellow citizens and for the humanitarian crisis in Sudan. In response to the Speaker’s interest in further improving Sudan’s bilateral relationship with the U.S., the Congressman insisted on the continuing need for unfettered humanitarian access, the release of all political prisoners and the cessation of all hostilities. Rather than ensure humanitarian access to South Kordofan, Darfur and Blue Nile, Khartoum has renewed offensive operations in South Kordofan, in violation of the agreements reached with the Obama Administration that resulted in the easing of sanctions. The Congressman plans to reintroduce bipartisan legislation this year to impose targeted sanctions on the Sudanese government for its genocidal acts and crimes against humanity. Congressman McGovern has long been an outspoken critic of the repressive regime in Sudan. In May 2016, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan letter with 120 lawmakers calling on President Obama to keep the Sudan humanitarian crisis a priority. ###
02.28.2017	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) announced that his guest for tonight’s address by President Trump to a joint session of Congress will be Dr. Babak Movahedi, a nationally-ranked transplant surgeon at UMass Memorial Medical Center in Worcester, Massachusetts, who was born in Iran and is worried about how Trump’s Muslim Ban will impact his family. Dr. Movahedi and his family left Iran as a refugee when he was 14-years-old, traveling to Belgium to escape the war between Iraq and Iran. Dr. Movahedi was granted asylum in Belgium where he went on to complete medical school and receive his PhD and surgeon training. “Tonight I want President Trump to see that America’s diversity is our greatest strength. Dr. Movahedi is a shining example of America’s promise and the incredible contributions immigrants make to our country,” Congressman McGovern said. “Dr. Movahedi is a nationally-ranked surgeon helping to save lives every day. America has a proud history of protecting religious freedom and opening the doors to all who are seeking a better life. President Trump’s inhumane Muslim ban tramples on that history and marginalizes members of our communities. Dr. Movahedi and so many others are now afraid to visit their family overseas because they worry they may be denied re-entry when they return. America is stronger because of our diversity and tonight I will proudly stand with Dr. Movahedi to deliver that message to President Trump.” “I am honored to join my representative, Congressman McGovern, at tonight’s joint session of Congress,” Dr. Movahedi said. “America has given my family so much and I am so grateful for the opportunities we have to serve our community. This is our home and I could not imagine raising our family anywhere else. I am deeply concerned about President Trump’s policy and the impact it could have on my family. My message to President Trump tonight is that it is not where you are born that defines you, but what you do with the opportunities you are given. That is why I love this country.” Dr. Movahedi and his Belgian-born wife and two children came to Boston in 2008 so he could complete a two-year post-doctoral research fellowship in transplant immunology at Beth Israel Deconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School. Subsequently, he did a transplant fellowship at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Massachusetts. He and his family loved America so much that they decided to stay. His wife and children are now U.S. citizens. In 2012, Dr. Movahedi joined the faculty at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. He cares for patients with end-stage liver or kidney disease in need of an organ transplant. He is also involved in resident and medical student teaching and clinical research. Dr. Movahedi has a green card and intends to pursue citizenship when the 5-year wait period is up. Dr. Movahedi is very worried about Trump’s Muslim ban and the impact it could have on him personally and his Iranian-born family in Belgium. ###
02.24.2017	This week U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) concluded a bipartisan Congressional delegation trip to Cuba to continue the progress begun by President Obama to bring U.S.-Cuba relations into the 21st Century and explore new opportunities to promote U.S. economic development with Cuba. The trip will focus on economic opportunities for American companies in the agriculture and health sectors. Click here for photos from the Cuba trip. Joining Congressman McGovern on this trip were U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Michael Bennet (D-CO) Tom Udall (D-NM). Also joining McGovern for two days was Congressman Seth Moulton, a fellow member of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation. While in Cuba, McGovern and Moulton attended meetings with leaders from the Massachusetts Biotechnology Council (MassBio) and the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), who jointly sponsored a delegation of representatives from Harvard Medical School, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, UMass Memorial Hospital, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Science, Chicago Foods International, and Takeda Oncology to explore partnerships in the areas of medical and biotechnology research and exchanges, as well as meetings with Northeastern University on environmental and marine science research and university exchanges. “With this new chapter in U.S.-Cuba relations, America has a real opportunity to lead. I was proud to join Republican and Democratic leaders in Cuba this week as we continue to explore new partnerships between our countries,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Massachusetts has always been a world-leader in delivering innovative, high-quality health care and this trip helped us lay the foundation for strong partnerships that will help scientists and business leaders from our countries work together for years to come. I will continue to work with our bipartisan coalition to strengthen cooperation on a broad range of issues and advance policies to support partnerships to create good jobs, help businesses grow, and advance life-saving treatment that will help people in the U.S. and around the world.” "Massachusetts and Cuba are both worldwide leaders in biotechnology, and this visit is the first step in what both sides hope will be a future of collaboration,” said Congressman Moulton. "Knowing of the treatments pioneered in Cuba, many local scientists have wanted to work together with their counterparts but didn’t know how to begin the conversation. We will all develop new treatments and save more lives if we can share knowledge, another example of the benefits that come from reengagement between our two nations." Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress in the push normalize U.S.-Cuba relations and find ways to connect the two nations’ citizens through expanded travel, commerce, and access to information. In August 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry in Havana for the re-opening of the U.S. Embassy in Cuba and in the 114th Congress, Congressman McGovern launched a bipartisan Cuba Working Group to build on the historic progress already achieved under President Obama’s new policy. Members of the Cuba Working Group are supporters of one or more key pieces of legislation introduced in 2015, with Republicans as the lead sponsors. Taken together, these bills repeal economic and travel restrictions and would effectively eliminate the U.S. embargo on Cuba: The Cuba Trade Act of 2015 would allow U.S. businesses in the private sector to trade with Cuba without restrictions; The Cuba Digital and Telecommunications Advancement Act (Cuba DATA Act) would allow U.S. telecommunications and internet companies to provide services to the island; The Cuba Agriculture Exports Act would allow for U.S. investment in privately owned Cuban agriculture businesses; The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act of 2015 would allow all U.S. citizens to travel to Cuba. Senate committees have passed significant legislation to lift the travel ban on Cuba and widen trade with bipartisan support. The House of Representatives has been more reticent to move U.S. policy forward, making this Cuba working group even more important. Increasing trade, travel and investment in Cuba will not only open new markets and create jobs in both countries, but promote human rights and better hemispheric relations. Public opinion polls over the past year have shown an increasing support to end the Cuban trade embargo and change course on U.S.-Cuba relations. A recent Pew poll showed 73 percent of the American people, including 59 percent of Republicans favor ending the trade embargo. The bi-partisan Congressional Working Group will now take leadership to match the growing public support for a new U.S. policy towards Cuba. ###
02.21.2017	A bipartisan Congressional delegation is in Cuba this week to continue the progress begun by President Obama to bring U.S.-Cuba relations into the 21st Century and explore new opportunities to promote U.S. economic development with Cuba. The trip will focus on economic opportunities for American companies in the agriculture and health sectors. U.S. Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Michael Bennet (D-CO) Tom Udall (D-NM) and U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (D-MA) will be in Cuba February 19th through February 23rd to help promote U.S. economic development. The McGovern-Leahy delegation will discuss progress in, and future opportunities for, U.S.-Cuban cooperation on a wide range of topics, including foreign trade, migration, human rights, and property claims. Congressman McGovern, who has been a leading voice in Congress on U.S.-Cuba relations, will also be joined by Congressman Seth Moulton, a fellow member of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation. While in Cuba, the two congressmen will also attend meetings with leaders from the Massachusetts Biotechnology Council (MassBio) and the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA) and a delegation from Northeastern University that are in Havana, Cuba to explore partnerships in the areas of medical, biotechnology and environmental research and opportunities for business and university exchanges. “Americans are ready for a 21st century approach to Cuba and two years after President Obama’s historic announcement of the new U.S.-Cuba policy, I am proud help this bipartisan delegation to build on that progress,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “With this trip, we’ll be working together with our partners in Cuba to create new opportunities for medical research, increase travel and exchange programs, and support efforts in Cuba to advance democratic reforms and promote human rights. My home state of Massachusetts has always been a world-leader in delivering innovative, high-quality health care and I am excited by the prospect of fostering deeper relationships with the Cuban health sector.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress in the push normalize U.S.-Cuba relations and find ways to connect the two nations’ citizens through expanded travel, commerce, and access to information. In August 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry in Havana for the re-opening of the U.S. Embassy in Cuba and in the 114th Congress, Congressman McGovern launched a bipartisan Cuba Working Group to build on the historic progress already achieved under President Obama’s new policy. Members of the Cuba Working Group are supporters of one or more key pieces of legislation introduced in 2015, with Republicans as the lead sponsors. Taken together, these bills repeal economic and travel restrictions and would effectively eliminate the U.S. embargo on Cuba: The Cuba Trade Act of 2015 would allow U.S. businesses in the private sector to trade with Cuba without restrictions; The Cuba Digital and Telecommunications Advancement Act (Cuba DATA Act) would allow U.S. telecommunications and internet companies to provide services to the island; The Cuba Agriculture Exports Act would allow for U.S. investment in privately owned Cuban agriculture businesses; The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act of 2015 would allow all U.S. citizens to travel to Cuba. Senate committees have passed significant legislation to lift the travel ban on Cuba and widen trade with bipartisan support. The House of Representatives has been more reticent to move U.S. policy forward, making this Cuba working group even more important. Increasing trade, travel and investment in Cuba will not only open new markets and create jobs in both countries, but promote human rights and better hemispheric relations. Public opinion polls over the past year have shown an increasing support to end the Cuban trade embargo and change course on U.S.-Cuba relations. A recent Pew poll showed 73 percent of the American people, including 59 percent of Republicans favor ending the trade embargo. The bi-partisan Congressional Working Group will now take leadership to match the growing public support for a new U.S. policy towards Cuba. ###
02.17.2017	Today Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) led a broad bipartisan coalition of 19 House lawmakers called on Speaker Ryan to schedule a debate and vote on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) as quickly as possible following news of a Pentagon proposal to send U.S. ground troops to northern Syria, just the latest escalation in the continuing military operations against ISIS. Congressman McGovern has been an outspoken critic of both Republican and Democratic presidents and the increasing power of the executive branch when it comes to war. Joining McGovern on today’s letter were Representatives Walter Jones (R-NC), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Tom Cole (R-OK), John Lewis (D-GA), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Peter Welch (D-VT), Raul Labrador (R-ID), David Cicilline (D-RI), Paul Gosar (R-AZ), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Ted Yoho (R-FL), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Justin Amash (R-MI), and John Garamendi (D-CA). In today’s letter, the bipartisan group of lawmakers called on Speaker Ryan to “immediately bring before the U.S. House of Representatives one or more authorizations for the use of military force (AUMF) regarding the deployment and use of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere. A separate AUMF on deployment of U.S. troops to Yemen is also warranted, given recent statements by the President and former National Security Advisor. The bipartisan group added that they are “alarmed that the Pentagon is considering U.S. troop deployment in northern Syria, in addition to the Special Operations forces already deployed there. Another AUMF is needed to address whether American troops might be deployed to enter the Saudi-led war against Houthi forces in Yemen. The recent death in combat of a U.S. Navy SEAL, the wounding of others in his company, and the statements by President Trump and former National Security Advisor Flynn on deploying U.S. troops in Yemen to confront Iranian forces provide added urgency to the need for action on the part of the Congress. The lawmakers highlighted the failure of Congress to address these issues during the final three years of the Obama Administration, saying that it “established a dangerous precedent for the presidency, one where the President of the United States may deploy or threaten deployment of U.S. troops to any region for any purpose without the consent and explicit authorization of Congress.” In today’s letter the lawmakers urged Speaker Ryan to “immediately ask President Trump to send to Congress a request for an AUMF that addresses the fight against the Islamic State and al-Qaeda affiliates in Syria, Iraq, and the surrounding region; and a separate AUMF regarding deployment of U.S. troops in Yemen. If these are not immediately forthcoming, we ask that the leadership of the House bring before this body its own draft AUMFs for consideration, debate and a vote. These are urgent matters of national security. It is vital that Congress reasserts its institutional prerogative and takes up its constitutional duties in matters of war and peace by explicitly authorizing U.S. military engagement abroad. Click here to view the letter online. Full Text of Today’s Letter to Speaker Ryan is Below: February 17, 2017 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House H-232 U.S. Capitol Building U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, It is with a grave sense of urgency that we write and ask you to immediately bring before the U.S. House of Representatives one or more authorizations for the use of military force (AUMF) regarding the deployment and use of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere. A separate AUMF on deployment of U.S. troops to Yemen is also warranted, given recent statements by the President and former National Security Advisor. Specifically, such AUMFs should address combating the forces of the Islamic State in the region, as well as al-Qaeda and its affiliates, as had been requested in the 113th and 114th Congresses. We are alarmed that the Pentagon is considering U.S. troop deployment in northern Syria, in addition to the Special Operations forces already deployed there. Another AUMF is needed to address whether American troops might be deployed to enter the Saudi-led war against Houthi forces in Yemen. The recent death in combat of a U.S. Navy SEAL, the wounding of others in his company, and the statements by President Trump and former National Security Advisor Flynn on deploying U.S. troops in Yemen to confront Iranian forces provide added urgency to the need for action on the part of the Congress. We believe that the failure of Congress to address these issues with a debate and vote on an AUMF during the final three years of the Obama Administration established a dangerous precedent for the presidency, one where the President of the United States may deploy or threaten deployment of U.S. troops to any region for any purpose without the consent and explicit authorization of Congress. We urge you to immediately ask President Trump to send to Congress a request for an AUMF that addresses the fight against the Islamic State and al-Qaeda affiliates in Syria, Iraq, and the surrounding region; and a separate AUMF regarding deployment of U.S. troops in Yemen. If these are not immediately forthcoming, we ask that the leadership of the House bring before this body its own draft AUMFs for consideration, debate and a vote. These are urgent matters of national security. It is vital that Congress reasserts its institutional prerogative and takes up its constitutional duties in matters of war and peace by explicitly authorizing U.S. military engagement abroad. Sincerely, ###
02.14.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the top Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee’s Nutrition Subcommittee and a leading champion for anti-hunger programs, released a strong response to committee’s report on the 18 hearings held in the previous Congress on SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program). Click here to view the letter online. In the 114th Congress, the House Agriculture Committee held 18 hearings on the “Past, Present and Future of SNAP.” In more than 30 hours of testimony from over 60 experts from across the country, these extensive and instructive hearings resulted in 830 pages of official hearing record from which the Committee compiled a 66 page report, released in December. In today’s letter, Congressman McGovern presented six key findings to House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (R-TX). McGovern will keep these priorities front and center in the upcoming debate over the 2018 Farm Bill. In the letter, McGovern said, “I applaud your commitment to creating this comprehensive body of evidence on SNAP but as the summary report was completed without input from the Minority members, I am writing to emphasize some of the most powerful testimony given before the Committee that I believe should help guide policy decisions in the upcoming farm bill.” Key Findings in McGovern Letter on House Agriculture Committee Hearings on SNAP: SNAP Benefits Should Not Be Cut: Nearly 50 million Americans, including working families, veterans, seniors and the disabled, struggle to put food on the table. SNAP is a vital tool to help struggling Americans get back on their feet and participation has steadily declined as economic conditions have improved because of its entitlement structure. The SNAP Benefit is Inadequate: On average, SNAP households receive about $255 a month. The average SNAP benefit per person is about $126 per month, which works out to just $1.40 per person, per meal. SNAP Does Not Discourage Work: About 30 percent of SNAP households have earnings from wages, salaries or self-employment. Of those not working the majority are children, elderly, disabled or were caring for children or disabled family members in their home. Eliminating Work Waivers Hampers State Flexibility and Increases Hunger: Current law mandates that adults between the ages of 18-50, who are able to work, are limited to three months of SNAP out of every three years. States can choose to waive this limit and have done so during times of high unemployment. Creating Innovative, Evidence-based Programs and Supporting Good Case management is an Investment: Case management that helps connect those in need with tailored services to move out of poverty can be successful. However, high quality, effective case management for those who need it, requires a well-funded multi-year commitment to families and individuals. Programs that Provide an Economic Ladder Require Adequate Funding: Block granted programs provide only flat funding and are not responsive to economic changes. Since 2000, federally funded block grants that pay for critical work supports like housing, job training, maternal and child health and childcare have eroded by 37 percent. As this testimony reflects and you have stated, “SNAP is essential in protecting the most vulnerable citizens during tough times. For many it is a vital lifeline to keeping food on the table,” McGovern concluded. “We look forward to working with you to incorporate these expert findings into policy in the 115th Congress.” Full text of the letter is below. Click here to view the letter online. February 14, 2017 K. Michael Conaway Chairman House Committee on Agriculture 1301 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Conaway: In the 114th Congress, the House Agriculture Committee held 18 hearings on the “Past, Present and Future of SNAP.” In more than 30 hours of testimony from over 60 experts from across the country, these extensive and instructive hearings resulted in 830 pages of official hearing record from which the Committee compiled a 66 page report, released in December. I applaud your commitment to creating this comprehensive body of evidence on SNAP but as the summary report was completed without input from the Minority members, I am writing to emphasize some of the most powerful testimony given before the Committee that I believe should help guide policy decisions in the upcoming farm bill: SNAP Benefits Should Not Be Cut: Nearly 50 million Americans, including working families, veterans, seniors and the disabled, struggle to put food on the table. SNAP is a vital tool to help struggling Americans get back on their feet and participation has steadily declined as economic conditions have improved because of its entitlement structure. “…the notion that charity helps to support the Government programs is an important concept and it is an important partnership, but it is the Government programs that provide the kind of consistent, stable, and baseline support that these families need, and that charity alone could never be responsive enough.” Abby Leibman, Mazon, January 12, 2016 “…I am arguing that food stamps are a crucial part of what I call the work support system, and a lot of people work because they can, not just with their own wages, which are often low, but because they get these other benefits, up to around $30,000 or so, they can make their family better off because of food stamps, Medicaid, childcare, and so forth. So the government programs that help them are essential. That is the main point of my testimony.” Dr. Ron Haskins, The Brookings Institution, October 27, 2015 “We recommend that Congress refrain from making any further benefit cuts, and avoid making any structural changes that would weaken SNAP’s ability to respond to increased needs due to economic changes. We recommend that you resist expanded work requirements, particularly on workers 50 plus, who typically take longer to find new permanent employment after being unemployed.” Eric Schneidewind, AARP, January 12, 2016 “I talked on a number of occasions to Erskine Bowles, to Alan Simpson, to people involved in Domenici-Rivlin, and to the Senators of both parties of the Gang of Six, and they made a specific determination that deficit reduction should not increase poverty or hardship. And they weren’t saying that there were no improvements that could be made in these programs, but they were saying that they did not think reducing benefits in these programs was an appropriate source of deficit reduction.” Robert Greenstein, Center on Budget Policies and Priorities, February, 25, 2015 The SNAP Benefit is Inadequate: On average, SNAP households receive about $255 a month. The average SNAP benefit per person is about $126 per month, which works out to just $1.40 per person, per meal. “I know everybody is on different sides of this issue politically, but people can’t parent well and raise happy, healthy children who are ready to learn, and you can’t work well if you are hungry, if you are wondering where your next meal is coming from, or if you had to spend your lunch money taking a cab because you were late for work that morning. It is super frustrating to me that this fundamental thing that is the sort of basis of all human health is even a debate.” Pamela Hess, Arcadia Center for Sustainable Food and Agriculture, November 16, 2016 “Your concern for program duplication should be balanced with the knowledge that the Federal nutrition programs do not meet the need. Funding for these programs is wholly inadequate, and the evidence of this is the billions of dollars that private sector plows into buoying their shortfalls. Food banks, soup kitchens, homeless shelters, and food pantries feed millions of hungry Americans shorted by these programs. And no matter how reputable, food banks are a scourge on our nation’s reputation. We should put them out of business because the grocery store is where food comes from and the most dignified way to get it is to buy it with your wages. The day we no longer need food banks is the day that we end hunger.” Sherrie Tussler, Milwaukee Hunger Task Force, May 20, 2015 “But I will tell you that if we can keep the Federal nutrition programs strong, then the dollars that we get from private donations can actually help us support those innovative efforts. But right now so many of us are having to buy additional food to ensure that people have food to eat as food programs such as SNAP goes through cuts.” Kate Maehr, Chicago Food Depository, April 15, 2015 “So the Thrifty Food Plan…the basis for which the SNAP benefit—just assumes a very meager diet, and heroic assumptions about how much time families have to cook, shop, and really extreme assumptions about what they are buying, relative to the rest of America. A more realistic food plan, including a low cost food plan, would just make high—more nutritious, healthy diets, put them within reach of families on this program.” Stacy Dean, Center on Budget Policies and Priorities, March 2, 2016 SNAP Does Not Discourage Work: About 30 percent of SNAP households have earnings from wages, salaries or self-employment. Of those not working the majority are children, elderly, disabled or were caring for children or disabled family members in their home. “Somehow we have determined that punishing people with hunger will motivate them towards work. Hunger doesn’t motivate. It dulls and it makes people sick.” Sherrie Tussler, Milwaukee Food Bank, May 20, 2015 “The conclusion of a team of leading researchers who examined all of the research in the field is that SNAP does not pose significant work disincentives, and its effect on the amount that people work is small… There also was testimony before the Senate Finance Committee a year or… so ago from one of the nation’s leading conservative economists, Robert Hall, who is at Stanford and at the Hoover Institution, and he said the data do not seem to support the view that the social safety net is discouraging labor for SNAP.” Robert Greenstein, Center on Budget Policies and Priorities, February 25, 2015 “…the research bears out that families that have jobs that have unpredictable work hours, or that are seasonal workers, have major income fluctuations, and those income fluctuations are not necessarily accommodated in the SNAP program, so people may lose their SNAP benefits before they have stabilized their income, and are more likely to report hunger.” Mariana Chilton, The National Commission on Hunger, November 18, 2015 Eliminating Work Waivers Hampers State Flexibility and Increases Hunger: Current law mandates that adults between the ages of 18-50, who are able to work, are limited to three months of SNAP out of every three years. States can choose to waive this limit and have done so during times of high unemployment. “I think it is reasonable to have some adjustment during a recession in Federal work requirements. I am not sure I would suspend them, but I would give people a longer time to find a job, for example, would be a reasonable approach.” Ron Haskins, The Brookings Institution, October 27, 2015 “Yes, in California, we are anticipating the end of the waiver in parts of the State in about eighteen months, and we are engaged in a lot of planning on that because we do think the rule would be very harsh—harshly felt by families. And it is very complicated, frankly, to administer and administer accurately. No, we do not have enough jobs and enough job training and enough job slots.” Kim McCoy Wade, CalFresh Branch Chief, September 13, 2016 Creating Innovative, Evidence-based Programs and Supporting Good Case management is an Investment: Case management that helps connect those in need with tailored services to move out of poverty can be successful. However, high quality, effective case management for those who need it, requires a well-funded multi-year commitment to families and individuals. “…you can’t expect programs to be built on evidence of effectiveness if there is no evidence. The most innovative ideas for social programs frequently come from states or local providers. But state and local agencies and private service providers often lack the resources to put these ideas into practice. Thus, we need funds to encourage providers to experiment with new, promising ways to help those in need, and to build strong evidence for innovative programs.” James Sullivan, The University of Notre Dame, July 15, 2015 “Our efforts at the Texas Hunger Initiative demonstrate informed engagement, and are building a foundation for evidence-based solutions. We believe that allocating resources to the Hunger Free Communities line in the farm bill will expand the capacity of informed engagement in public and private partnerships, resulting in greater local coordination, strengthened social networks for low-income Americans. And when public and private partnerships are carefully informed by research and evaluation, stronger networks are likely formed between clients and local organizations, thus building a foundation for increased social capital for low-income families. We believe that this has the potential to reduce the need for long-term Federal assistance.” Jeremy Everett, Texas Hunger Initiative, July 15, 2015 “The families that we work with have a 44 percent earned income gain within the first year, and their tax payments go up by 35 percent. We know, from a return on investment analysis, that the investments we are making in these families are cost effective for the public dollar, and decrease subsidies, and increase tax payments. You are right in saying that we have to expect these interventions to prove their worth, and we have to work with families in a way that is going to be able to create that public value for the interventions that we have.” Elisabeth Babock, Crittenton Women’s Union, June 10, 2015 “So the complexity of the interplay between these issues means that Congress needs to take a good hard look at securing the level of benefits at a rate that provides people with financial stability, and is a realistic safety net that allows them to get security and then move off of benefits. For those for whom gainful employment is no longer an option because they are either disabled or they are too senior to work, then we need to think about systems and how those play into other kinds of supports that allow people to live with dignity as they age, and they can provide themselves and their families with the kind of support that they need.” Abby Leibman, Mazon, January 12, 2016 Programs that Provide an Economic Ladder Require Adequate Funding: Block granted programs provide only flat funding and are not responsive to economic changes. Since 2000, federally funded block grants that pay for critical work supports like housing, job training, maternal and child health and childcare have eroded by 37 percent. “Families don’t just come with one issue. And when a child is sick, we see that there are a lot of things that are going on. It is not just about food, it is also about housing, it is also about income…We have to think about other things like childcare supports… because if you have more moms who are working at low-wage jobs, if you don’t have the childcare to help that backstop, it is really not going to be very helpful for that mom. So there are a lot of interlocking needs that we need to address.” Dr. Eduardo Ochoa, Arkansas Children’s Hospital for ChildrensHealthWatch, October 27, 2015 “So I could not recommend more highly the utilization of resources to address transportation issues. After housing, transportation is really the second highest cost center to a struggling family living in poverty or living on low wages. And it is really critically important that we consider those challenges.” David Stillman, Washington State Department of Social and Health Services, September 13, 2016 “Particularly, in the rural communities, transportation is really, really critical because the availability of jobs is constrained. As to child care, it is the single funding issue that we struggle with the most. It is a real problem.” Pete Weber, Fresno Bridge Academy, September 13, 2016 As this testimony reflects and you have stated, “SNAP is essential in protecting the most vulnerable citizens during tough times. For many it is a vital lifeline to keeping food on the table.” We look forward to working with you to incorporate these expert findings into policy in the 115th Congress. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Ranking Member ###
02.03.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat, released the following statement on the successful return of Benham Partopour, a chemical engineering student going for his PhD at Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) in Central Massachusetts. Click here for photos from today’s arrival in Boston. Partopour is an Iranian national who was in Iran when President Trump’s executive order on immigration went into effect. Partopour had a visa, but no airlines were willing to sell plane tickets that would allow him to return to the United States. Congressman McGovern’s office worked with the staff of ACLU Massachusetts and school officials at WPI on a daily basis after President Trump’s ban went into effect, finally securing his return today. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) Statement: “President Trump’s executive action is a direct assault on American values. Every day we are seeing new stories about the countless families it is hurting. Today I was proud to join the ACLU and WPI President Laurie Leshin in welcoming Behnam Partopour back to Boston after being stranded outside the United States for nearly a week. “The fact that this reckless policy stopped a bright young man from returning to his studies at a top American university is appalling. And he is not alone. Hundreds have been detained and thousands have been impacted by President Trump’s ban. The chaos and confusion we’ve seen at airports across the country, including among both homeland security officers and the airlines, is stunning. “This is what happens when an over-eager White House rushes a bad policy without thinking about the implications and effectively coordinating with the very federal agencies in charge of enforcing it. Americans deserve better from our leaders. I will continue to urge Republicans in Congress to do the right thing and join Americans across the country in rejecting this hate-driven policy and call on President Trump to immediately rescind this shameful executive order.” ###
02.02.2017	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and author of the bipartisan “Magnitsky Act” passed by Congress in 2012 to sanction Russia for corruption and human rights abuses, expressed deep concern about President Trump’s action today to lift sanctions on the FSB, the Russian Federal Security Service and successor to the KGB. Today the Treasury Department published a license that authorizes certain transactions between U.S. companies and the FSB and for the importation, distribution or use of “certain information technology products in the Russian Federation.” These transactions had been prohibited under Obama administration sanctions imposed on Russia in late December in response to a report by U.S. intelligence agencies on Russian efforts to interfere with the U.S. election. Statement from Congressman McGovern: “American democracy was attacked in 2016 when Russia’s security services interfered in our presidential election to help Donald Trump win. In response to the mountain of evidence from U.S. intelligence agencies showing that Russia was guilty of meddling in our election, President Obama implemented strong sanctions to hold them accountable. “Donald Trump has been president for less than two weeks and he’s already easing sanctions on the Russian Security Service and Vladimir Putin’s henchmen – the very same henchmen who meddled in our country’s election just three months ago. Donald Trump constantly praised Putin on the campaign trail and today’s action is just his latest love letter to the Russian president. “President Trump is letting Russia off the hook for interfering in our election and telling the world it’s open season on American democracy. Trump’s reckless abandoning of sanctions against Russian security services is a serious cause for alarm. “It’s time for Republicans and Democrats to come together and support a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate Russia’s intervention in our election. The American people deserve to know how Russia hacked into our democratic institutions. We need to ensure that it never happens again.” BACKGROUND Congressman McGovern is a co-sponsor of H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, a bill to establish an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate foreign interference in the 2016 election. The bill now has 197 Members of the House of Representatives co-sponsoring it, including Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, and all members of House Democratic leadership. The Protecting Our Democracy Act would create a 12-member, bipartisan, independent commission empowered to interview witnesses, obtain documents, issue subpoenas, and receive public testimony to examine attempts by the Russian government or others to use electronic means to influence, interfere with, or undermine trust in last year’s U.S. elections. The commission would examine any similar efforts by any other foreign governments or entities and would issue a final report with recommendations to Congress and the President within 18 months of enactment. ###
01.28.2017	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress on human rights, released the following statement on the executive order signed by President Trump on Friday. “America was founded on the fundamental belief in the freedom of religion. The fact that President Trump chose Holocaust Remembrance Day to sign his Muslim ban shutting the door to thousands of refugees fleeing war is shameful. “Our country has long stood as a beacon of hope to the world with the Statue of Liberty welcoming generations of families in search of safety and a better life. Turning our backs on the innocent women, children, and families desperate to escape violence is not only callous and wrong, it is deeply un-American. “A policy that stigmatizes and isolates Americans of any faith makes us weaker, not stronger. We are better than this and I urge Republicans in Congress to join Americans across the country in rejecting this hate-driven policy and call on President Trump to immediately rescind this executive order.” ###
01.27.2017	This week U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined an international human rights delegation in El Salvador for the forum entitled “Forced Disappearance During the Salvadoran Armed Conflict: The Search, Truth and Reconciliation” at the University of Central America José Simeon Cañas. McGovern, along with Salvadoran and international human rights experts, will hear personal testimonies – including from US citizens – of the children, parents and siblings of some of the thousands who disappeared during the Salvadoran civil war. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress on human rights and in August 2016, McGovern led a group of 26 House lawmakers in a letter calling on President Obama to declassify U.S. military and intelligence records and reports that have not been previously released that relate to unresolved cases of disappearances and human rights abuses during the period of the civil war in El Salvador. Among those attending the forum are the Mauricio Aquino Foundation, the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), the Due Process of Law Foundation (DPLF), and family members of the disappeared during the war. Congressman McGovern Statement on Forum in El Salvador: “Today I am proud to be in El Salvador as we continue the work for social justice and advancing democratic values. This forum is about truth and reconciliation for the many families whose loved ones were taken and killed during the El Salvador civil war. I am grateful to all the organizations who have helped to shine a spotlight on the disappeared. We are here to listen to these families – and to share what we hear with our colleagues in the U.S. Congress and the American public.” “Last week, El Salvador celebrated the 25th Anniversary of the Peace Accords – a very important milestone in El Salvador’s history – and reason for celebration, reflection and recommitment. But as we all know, peace does not come with the signing of accords. The work of building peace, of creating peace, of strengthening democratic institutions, of promoting reconciliation, truth and justice – all of that hard work begins the day after the peace accords are signed. “My first trip to El Salvador was in 1983, and I spent a great deal of time here as a young aide to Congressman Joe Moakley, searching for the truth in the case of the murdered Jesuits, their housekeeper and her daughter. “Much has been accomplished by the Salvadoran people in the past 25 years – but so very much is left to do. Among the work left unfinished is an accounting for the disappeared. “I and many of my colleagues in the U.S. Congress were so moved when we were approached last year by American citizens who are the sons and daughters of Salvadorans who disappeared during the war and were asked to help them in their quest to find out the truth about what happened to their parents. We promised them that we would help. “At the end of last March, we hosted a briefing for Members of Congress and staff with a group of Salvadorans and Salvadoran-Americans whose relatives were forcibly disappeared during the civil war. In August, Members of Congress wrote to President Obama to release all remaining documents that US agencies have kept classified on the Salvadoran civil war. “We also wrote to President Sánchez Cerén encouraging him to support a national commission to investigate and resolve the fate of the disappeared. Today, the delegation met with President Sánchez Cerén. It was a frank, cordial and productive meeting. “Most U.S. documents were declassified and released during the presidency of Bill Clinton, and have long been available to human rights researchers. But some documents still remain classified, mainly those of U.S. intelligence agencies. There’s still more that could be released, and please know that I and many of my congressional colleagues will continue to press for further declassification. “It is early days for the presidency of Donald Trump. I do not know whether President Trump and his Administration will recognize the pain and suffering of the Salvadoran people and be willing to help in whatever way possible so that you might find answers about your missing loved ones. Certainly, his first actions on immigration are not encouraging, although they were not surprising either. “But one thing that I can promise you is that I will ask President Trump and others to help account for the disappeared – to open up the remaining U.S. records and to provide support to a national commission. But ultimately, the answers can only be found here in El Salvador, if there is the political will to do so. “I know that even today many people continue to disappear as part of the violence ripping apart El Salvador’s communities and families. We must confront and resolve the issue of yesterday’s disappeared.” ###
01.24.2017	Days after the seven year anniversary of the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in the Citizens United case, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Representatives Ted Deutch (FL-22) and Jamie Raskin (MD-08) joined Senators Tom Udall (D-NM) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) in re-introducing the Democracy for All Amendment. This constitutional amendment would help to reverse the concentration of political influence held by large corporations and the wealthy capable of spending millions of dollars in American elections. To help get big money out of politics and restore democratic power to the American people, this amendment would affirm the right of the people to pass state and federal laws regulating spending in elections. For more information on the amendment, click here for a background summary and click here for a section-by-section and answered FAQs. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress calling to get money out of politics and introduced a similar measure to overturn Citizens United in 2011. “There's too much money in our politics. It is a corrupting force. It undermines our democracy and drowns out the voices of the people,” Congressman McGovern said. “The Democracy for All Amendment empowers Congress and state legislatures with the ability to limit spending in political campaigns in their respective states. It will help return power to the people and take it out of the hands of special interests. Citizens United was a dreadful decision that has done great harm to our democracy. This is a way to begin to take back our country." “The Supreme Court’s disastrous Citizens United decision reserved meaningful political participation for the rich and wealthy special interests,” said Congressman Deutch. “At every turn and on nearly every issue, from gun safety to climate change, unlimited political spending ensures that Congress is tuned in to the needs of special interests and tunes out the voices of the American people. It’s time to get money out of politics to guard our elections against a dangerous threat that erodes the faith of the American people in our democratic institutions.” “The 2016 election was supposed to be a call to ‘drain the swamp’ — because so many Americans are fed up with business as usual in Washington, where moneyed special interests drown out the voices of regular Americans,” said Senator Udall. “But instead of reform, President Trump has set out rewarding Wall Street insiders and billionaire donors with cabinet and other key positions in the new administration, and the ultra-wealthy and well-connected look to have more power than ever in determining the future of our democracy. Each year, because of Citizens United and subsequent decisions, the door has opened wider for rich special interests and corporations to pour unlimited sums of money into our elections and root themselves in our government. The only real way we can put our democracy back in the hands of all Americans, instead of a privileged, powerful few, is to amend the Constitution. Our Democracy for All Amendment restores the authority of the American people – through Congress and the states – to regulate campaign finance, so that our elections aren’t put up for sale to the highest bidder. Millions of people across the country and over a dozen state legislatures, including New Mexico’s, have voiced support for a constitutional amendment, and we must keep pressing forward to ensure a government that is of, by, and for the people.” "Coloradans want commonsense reforms to fix our broken campaign finance system and bring some semblance of sanity to our politics. This constitutional amendment would do that by establishing the authority of Congress and the states to pass reasonable campaign finance rules," Senator Michael Bennet said. "In order to get Washington working and restore faith in our democracy, we must end the flood of unlimited secret money that's drowning out the voices of Colorado families.” "Seven years ago, five justices overturned two centuries of jurisprudence to determine that private business corporations enjoy the political free speech rights of the people," said Congressman Raskin. "Today, after hundreds of millions of dollars in dark money have been spent by CEOs in the name of their unwitting shareholders and billionaires act as our new political bosses and cabinet secretaries, we can see what plutocracy looks like. I’m proud to support the Democracy for All Amendment to rebuild the wall of separation between massive corporate and private wealth and public elections.” “Americans may be divided about many things, but they are united in their belief that the Supreme Court’s Citizens United v. FEC decision was a disaster,” said Robert Weissman, President of Public Citizen. “They know that the political system is rigged, and that Citizens United-enabled spending by corporations and the super-rich is a big part of the problem. It is past time to overturn this decision and get big money out of politics. Public Citizen thanks Rep. Ted Deutch and other sponsors of the Democracy for All amendment for their leadership in advancing this vital initiative." “Common Cause commends Congressman Deutch, Senator Udall, and many other members of Congress for their leadership in championing the Democracy for All Amendment to help reduce the influence of big money in politics,” said Aaron Scherb, Director of Legislative Affairs at Common Cause. “The Democracy for All Amendment would help ensure that the voices of all Americans can be heard in our democracy even if they can’t hire a lobbyist, make a large campaign contribution, or start a super PAC.” “After the election, it’s clearer than ever that we need money in politics reform,” said Marge Baker, Executive Vice President of People For the American Way. “Super PAC spending during the 2016 cycle was nearly double what it was in the last presidential election. The voices of everyday Americans can’t be heard when wealthy special interests can tilt our elections to fit their interests. We applaud Senator Udall, Representative Deutch, Representative McGovern, Representative Raskin, and the other congressional champions who continue to push for needed reforms like the Democracy For All Amendment.” “We applaud Members of Congress for re-introducing the Democracy For All Amendment to ensure that big money interests will no longer be able to dominate our elections and our government, drowning out the voices of ordinary citizens," said John Bonifaz, President of Free Speech For People. "To advance the promise of political equality for all and to reclaim our democracy, Congress must pass this constitutional amendment and send it to the states for ratification.” “Americans across the political spectrum know we must have the 28th Amendment so that people, not money and global corporations, govern America," said Jeff Clements, President of American Promise. "At American Promise, we applaud this progress in Congress and urge cross-partisan support for this effort.” ###
01.13.2017	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat, led debate for Democrats against S.Con.Res. 3, FY 2017 GOP Budget Resolution, the House Republican bill to begin the process of repealing of the Affordable Care Act. Click here to watch video of today’s speech. “For nearly seven years my Republican friends have railed against the Affordable Care Act. Their well-funded allies have spent billions of dollars distorting the ACA and lying to the American people about what it actually does. And for nearly seven years, there has not been a single comprehensive health care bill brought to the floor by Republicans as a replacement for the Affordable Care Act. Not one! “We have voted over 60 times to repeal the ACA on the House Floor. I’d be the first to admit the ACA is not perfect. We want to work in a bipartisan way to strengthen it, to make it better. But my colleagues don’t want to do that. They are determined to just vote for an outright repeal and that is going to hurt countless people in this country.” “The Donald Trumps of the world certainly don’t have to worry about health care if the Affordable Care Act is repealed. If someone in their family gets really sick – they’ll just sell some stocks or close down another American factory, or not pay their workers – as our President-elect has been known to do on many, many occasions. “As someone who represents Massachusetts, this is especially personal because Medicaid is one of the best tools we have in the fight against opioid addiction, providing real care for the addiction and the underlying conditions that drive the opioid epidemic in our communities. Repealing Medicaid expansion under the ACA would rip coverage away from an estimated 1.6 million newly insured individuals with substance use disorders. In Congressman McGovern’s closing remarks, he spoke directly to Republicans, “It is a cruel thing to do to take away people’s health care. We believe that health care oughta be a right, I know you don’t. We believe health care protections oughta be in law, you believe they oughta be up to the insurance companies. But this is a lousy thing to do. We’re gonna fight you on this. This is a fight worth having. Protecting people’s health care is something we should all be dedicated to and we’re going to fight you on this.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech: “For nearly seven years my Republican friends have railed against the Affordable Care Act. Their well-funded allies have spent billions of dollars distorting the ACA and lying to the American people about what it actually does. And for nearly seven years, there has not been a single comprehensive health care bill brought to the floor by Republicans as a replacement for the Affordable Care Act. Not one! “We have voted over 60 times to repeal the ACA on the House Floor! I’d be the first to admit the ACA is not perfect. But rather than work together to tweak it, to make it better, all we get from them are repeal bills, repeal bills, repeal bills. And let me again point out – not once, not once was a replacement bill offered. “Not only do Republicans not have a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act and protect access to health care for more than 20 million Americans who gained coverage, they can’t even agree on a timeline for when they’ll pass their replacement. President-elect Trump says repeal and replace will be done on the same day and he wants it to happen now. Rep. Steve Scalise said Republicans will replace the ACA over the course of the next few months. Sen. John Thune said it could take two or three years for the replacement to be implemented. Rep. Chris Collins said Republicans have six months to work out the replacement plan. Sen. Mitch McConnell refused to even give a timeline, just saying it would happen. “While Republicans fight for each other over timelines, I think it’s appropriate to ask: If they did have a replacement, what would that replacement be? “And what, specifically, would they replace the ACA with? “Well, President-elect Donald Trump has the answer! When asked what we should replace Obamacare with he said, and I quote, “Something terrific.” When pressed for details and more specificity, he said “Something that people will really, really, really like.” “You can’t make this stuff up! It would be laughable if it weren’t so tragic. “It’s tragic because what Republicans are trying to do is take health care protections away from millions and millions of families. “No one in Congress has to worry about health care if the Affordable Care Act is repealed. And the Donald Trumps of the world certainly don’t have to worry about health care if the Affordable Care Act is repealed. If someone in their family gets really sick – they’ll just sell some stocks or close down another American factory, or not pay their workers – as our President-elect has been known to do on many, many occasions. “But for millions of Americans it will be a different story. Repealing the ACA would mean over 30 million Americans would lose coverage, including nearly 4 million children; more than 52 million individuals with pre-existing conditions could have coverage rescinded or see their premiums dramatically increased; millions of young adults would be unable to stay on their parents’ plans until they are 26; over 14 million individuals enrolled in Medicaid under the expansion would lose coverage; and nearly 140 million individuals with private insurance would lose access to preventive services without co-pays or deductibles. “And millions of seniors would see their prescription drug prices increase because it would re-open the so-called doughnut hole that the ACA has begun to close. “Republicans want to slash Medicaid, a health care program that does a lot of good and enables mothers to work their way out of poverty by providing affordable coverage for their children. “And as someone who represents Massachusetts, this is especially personal because Medicaid is one of the best tools we have in the fight against opioid addiction, providing real care for the addiction and the underlying conditions that drive the opioid epidemic in our communities. Repealing Medicaid expansion under the ACA would rip coverage away from an estimated 1.6 million newly insured individuals with substance use disorders. “That’s what’s at stake – and that’s what my Republican colleagues are so happy, so giddy, and so excited to do. It is sad. It is pathetic. “But – they’re moving forward anyway – with no replacement in sight. I suppose they can roll out their oldies but goodies – like health savings accounts or their other healthcare prescription – take two tax breaks and call me in the morning. “But that doesn’t do it. “We have a complicated health care system, no doubt. I wish it were simpler. That’s why I’ve always favored a single-payer system and that is why I favor a public option. “But the problem with our system before Obamacare was that it left all the decisions up to the insurance companies. Do you remember the days when insurance companies could charge women more for health insurance because they said “being a woman was a pre-existing condition?” “They can’t do that anymore. Why? Not because of my Republican friends. They can’t do it anymore because we passed the ACA. “It is a cruel thing to do to take away people’s health care. I will say to my Republican colleagues that they need to know that we will fight you every step of the way on this. There are some battles on behalf of the American people that are worth having and worth fighting and this is one of them, making sure that their health care protections remain intact. I came to Congress to help people, not make their lives more miserable.” “This is a sad day because what we are doing here by voting for this budget is setting in motion a process to deny millions of people health care protections. I can’t imagine why anyone would want to do that. Is the Affordable Care Act perfect? No. We’re the first to admit that and we want to work in a bipartisan way to strengthen it, to make it better. But my colleagues don’t want to do that. They are determined to just vote for an outright repeal and that is going to hurt countless people in this country. People who have benefitted from no pre-existing conditions. People who have benefitted by being able to keep their kids on their insurance until they are 26. Senior citizens who have benefitted from closing the doughnut hole. I could go on and on and on. All of that is about to be eliminated. We’re told that there will be a replacement. Someday. Somehow. For six years, over six years, you have been talking about the repeal of the Affordable Care Act and replacement and you haven’t brought one bill to the floor. Not one. “Now, we believe that health care oughta be a right, I know you don’t. We believe health care protections oughta be in law, you believe they oughta be up to the insurance companies. But this is a lousy thing to do. And as I said in my opening statement, we’re gonna fight you on this. This is a fight worth having. Protecting people’s health care is something we should all be dedicated to and we’re going to fight you on this.” ###
01.13.2017	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on Sudan released the following statement on the announced changes by the Obama Administration regarding U.S. sanctions on Sudan. “I am angry and deeply disappointed that the last act by the Obama Administration on Sudan policy is to ease sanctions against a genocidal regime when there has been little to no change on-the-ground in the human rights and humanitarian crises suffered by the Sudanese people. “Let us make no mistake: Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir is a war criminal. He and his brutal, corrupt cronies have been indicted for acts of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. Any kind of sanctions relief should only have happened after the humanitarian and human rights situation had markedly changed on-the-ground. “Khartoum remains a brutal authoritarian government that represses its own people, cracks down on democratic dissent and political opposition, provides no space for a free and independent press, and has yet to allow the delivery of desperately needed humanitarian aid to the suffering people of Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile. “I recognize advances in the areas of counter-terrorism, tracking LRA leader Joseph Kony, and ending support for rebel forces in South Sudan, but for me, the bottom line is whether the genocidal policies and practices of the Bashir government have changed. In my opinion, they have not. Women and children, the young and the old, are dying from slow starvation due to Khartoum’s scorched earth military campaigns and the denial of humanitarian aid to those in need. Until such time as unimpeded access by international and humanitarian relief groups is happening and aid is actually being delivered to those in need, I remain skeptical that any such good will gestures by our government are warranted. “As for the process that has just been put in place, I ask that the in-coming Trump Administration make sure that conditions have truly changed on-the-ground when making its determination in six months whether to make today’s temporary relief permanent, let alone expanded. There can be no back-sliding and there must be concrete change in the reality of the most besieged regions. Truly, people’s very lives are at stake.” For over a decade, Congressman McGovern has been a leader in imposing sanctions against the genocidal regime of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir, who has been indicted by the International Criminal Court for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, along with several other members of his government and military forces. Congressman McGovern has been arrested three times in front of the Sudanese embassy, having organized other members of Congress to protest the genocide and humanitarian crisis perpetrated by the Bashir regime. In May 2016, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan letter to President Obama signed by 120 lawmakers, raising concerns about the deteriorating human rights and humanitarian situation in Sudan and asking the president to keep Sudan as a priority in the final months of his tenure. ###
01.05.2017	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and leading national voice on U.S.-Russia relations, spoke on the House Floor about today’s Capitol Hill hearing with U.S. intelligence officials and the Russian hacking done during the 2016 presidential election to influence the outcome. Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. “American democracy was attacked in 2016 by Russian hackers seeking to tip our presidential election in favor of Donald Trump. That’s not me speaking. That is the CIA, FBI, and the 14 other United States intelligence agencies which have reached a clear consensus on the matter. Yet even in the face of the overwhelming evidence, President-elect Trump has continued to sow seeds of confusion by publicly attacking and trying to discredit our country’s intelligence agencies and the brave men and women who risk their lives every day to keep us safe. “Today, intelligence officials are testifying before the Senate on this matter. In one of his most alarming actions yet, President-elect Trump has said he would rather trust the words of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, an accused sex offender, holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in the UK, than the consensus of the directors of U.S. intelligence agencies. This is not normal behavior by a president-elect, let alone a president. We cannot allow it to become normal. “America faces serious threats across the globe and we cannot afford to have a Commander-In-Chief at war with the very intelligence agencies responsible for keeping our country safe. Whatever his motivation, President-elect Trump must clearly and unequivocally join Republicans and Democrats seeking answers. We need a bipartisan independent commission to uncover the truth about the Russian hacking and we need all of our leaders to support it. “It’s time Mr. Trump’s Twitter sideshow comes to an end. It only confirms what many of us feared during the campaign – that he is temperamentally unfit to be President. We must be united in protecting the integrity of our elections against Russian and all foreign influence.” Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech Below: “Before I speak on today’s legislation, I want to express my continued deep concern and uneasiness about the Russian hacking to influence the outcome of the 2016 Presidential Election – and the deeply troubling response from our President-elect. “American democracy was attacked in 2016 by Russian hackers seeking to tip our presidential election in favor of Donald Trump. That’s not me speaking. That is the CIA, FBI, and the 14 other United States intelligence agencies which have reached a clear consensus on the matter. Yet even in the face of the overwhelming evidence, President-elect Trump has continued to sow seeds of confusion by publicly attacking and trying to discredit our country’s intelligence agencies and the brave men and women who risk their lives every day to keep us safe. “Today, intelligence officials are testifying before the Senate on this matter. In one of his most alarming actions yet, President-elect Trump has said he would rather trust the words of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, an accused sex offender, holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in the UK, than the consensus of the directors of U.S. intelligence agencies. “When Speaker Ryan was asked about Julian Assange, he called him ‘a sycophant for Russia’ who ‘leaks, steals data, and compromises national security.’ Yet America’s next president puts more faith in him than in the 16 U.S. intelligence agencies he will soon oversee. “This is not normal behavior by a president-elect, let alone a president. We cannot allow it to become normal. I appeal to my fellow members of Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, and especially the Republican leadership, to reach out to the President-elect and ensure that there is a clear understanding about how damaging these statements and actions are to America’s credibility, to our national security, and to the morale and responsibilities of our intelligence agencies. I appeal to my colleagues to get him help now. “America faces serious threats across the globe and we cannot afford to have a Commander-In-Chief at war with the very intelligence agencies responsible for keeping our country safe. Whatever his motivation, President-elect Trump must clearly and unequivocally join Republicans and Democrats seeking answers. We need a bipartisan independent commission to uncover the truth about the Russian hacking and we need all of our leaders to support it. It’s time Mr. Trump’s Twitter sideshow comes to an end. It only confirms what many of us feared during the campaign – that he is temperamentally unfit to be President. We must be united in protecting the integrity of our elections against Russian and all foreign influence.” ###
12.29.2016	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress on U.S.-Russia relations – author of a bipartisan bill recently passed by Congress to sanction Russia for corruption and human rights abuses – released the following statement in support of the Obama Administration’s latest round of sanctions against Russia: “I strongly support President Obama’s actions today to respond to Russia’s interference in our election. American democracy was attacked in 2016. This was a very serious act by a foreign government and deserves a very serious response. These sanctions are a strong step to hold accountable those individuals identified by U.S. intelligence agencies as responsible for meddling in our presidential election. But more action is needed. “We need an independent and bipartisan commission to fully investigate the actions by all who played a role in interfering in this year’s election. Protecting our elections from foreign interference is vital to our national security and must be our first priority. Both Republicans and Democrats alike must put country first and work together to support a complete and thorough investigation to give the American people the answers they deserve and ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. “President-elect Trump’s continued praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin during the campaign and in the face of overwhelming evidence that Russia interfered in our election should alarm all Americans. The incoming Trump administration must work with both parties in Congress to build on these new sanctions and ensure this attack on American democracy is answered strongly and swiftly. We must be united in standing up to Russia and protecting the integrity of our elections against all foreign influence.” ###
12.17.2016	U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress on human rights, released the following statement on the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Syria. "Every day we hear about new horrors as the massacre in Syria continues. At this moment, somewhere between 50,000 and 100,000 people remain in Aleppo waiting to be evacuated to safety. Thanks to the evacuation operation that was negotiated this week, some 8,000 people were able to leave Aleppo in recent days. "But it appears that the operation has broken down. While we do not know the details, there are reports that a convoy of 1,000 evacuees was stopped by pro-Syrian government militiamen, who shot several passengers, execution-style, before sending the rest back. There are also reports of the failure of a separate operation to evacuate civilians from two Shiite villages in nearby Idib Province that have long been surrounded by rebel forces. "Continuing attacks against civilians in Aleppo and elsewhere in Syria – against women, children, humanitarian workers and medical personnel – are inexcusable, a flagrant violation of international humanitarian law, and a failure of the most basic tenets of human decency. "This is not a civil war; this is a war on civilians. Nothing has demonstrated the scale of the slaughter more than what has happened and is happening in Aleppo. Most of the carnage is being carried out by the Syrian regime, which is massacring its own population, aided and abetted by Russia and Iranian militias. "To bring this slaughter to an end, there must be an immediate, verifiable, durable cessation of hostilities and attacks by all combatants. Safe passage out of besieged areas must be secured for all those who have been trapped inside, and full access must be restored for the delivery of humanitarian assistance. This is what decency requires. "Regrettably, we are not dealing with a regime that has any sense of decency. We need to remember that the Syrian uprising began as a peaceful movement seeking social justice and democratic reform. The Assad regime transformed this peaceful protest into a crisis and then a brutal civil war by arresting, torturing and murdering opponents en masse and pursuing a strategy of annihilation against its own people not seen since Bosnia and Rwanda. "While I strongly support Secretary Kerry's persistent efforts to use diplomatic channels and try to get the belligerents back to the negotiating table -- because in the end, the only way to end the horrific war in Syria is through a political settlement -- I have little confidence that his Russian counterparts are negotiating in good faith. I fear they are either stalling for time to allow Assad to carry out his murderous campaign, or they have no genuine ability to influence the Syrian regime and secure a humanitarian evacuation. "I will continue to support humanitarian assistance for Syria and the surrounding region. The United States has already provided more than $6 billion in humanitarian aid, and there is no doubt that much more will be needed. "But the incapacity of the international community, including the United States, to protect or save the civilian population of Aleppo is a failure of the greatest magnitude. I believe it will haunt us all for years to come. It represents not only the erosion of international humanitarian law and commitment, but a lack of political will and a lack of moral courage. "So, I call on all decent people around the world to demand accountability for the Syrian and Russian officials who are responsible for the horrific atrocities that have been committed against the Syrian people. Each and every official who has ordered or committed these crimes should be sanctioned; efforts to document the atrocities should be supported; and people everywhere should condemn and shame the Russian and Syrian regimes for what they have done. "In January, when the U.S. Congress reconvenes, we should debate what more we can do to help end this war, support its victims, and return to them some semblance of their lives. Every day more innocent lives are lost. The time for action to end this conflict is now." ###
12.13.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on human rights, led a group of 37 House lawmakers in a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry expressing deep concern about the escalation of killings and assaults in Colombia on human rights defenders, LGBT and women activists, labor leaders and other social leaders. In the letter, the lawmakers call on Secretary Kerry to take strong and immediate steps to address the increased violence and support protections for groups under attack. Click here to view today’s letter to Secretary Kerry. “We write to express our greatest sense of urgency and extreme concern regarding the escalation of murders, threats and attacks,” the lawmakers write, urging Secretary Kerry to “press and work with the Colombian government to publicly condemn this violence in the strongest possible terms.” The lawmakers called for Secretary Kerry to “increase and expand mechanisms designed to prevent such attacks from being carried out, and provide defenders and social leaders protection so that they may continue exercising their invaluable leadership and work.” “Given the spike in killings and assaults, it is imperative that these mandates are achieved rapidly and vigorously,” the lawmakers added. “We stand ready to provide whatever support we can to protect these defenders and activists and advance their role in building and consolidating a just and lasting peace in Colombia.” In today’s letter to Secretary Kerry, the House lawmakers called for the United States to: Work with Colombian government to publicly condemn this violence in strongest possible terms; Increase and expand mechanisms designed to prevent such attacks from being carried out; Provide protection to defenders and social leaders so that they may continue their work; Direct U.S. Ambassador to Colombia, Kevin Whitaker, to visit areas most threatened; Support the prompt implementation of the Colombia Peace Accord to protect vulnerable groups. Joining Congressman McGovern in leading today’s letter were Representatives Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03), John Lewis (GA-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), and Mark Pocan (WI-02). Additional lawmakers on the letter include: Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Sam Farr (CA-20), Michael M. Honda (CA-17), Donna F. Edwards (MD-04), Peter Welch (VT), Barbara Lee (CA-13), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Frederica S. Wilson (FL-24), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA-04), David N. Cicilline (RI-01), Alan Grayson (FL-09), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), William R. Keating (MA-09), Dina Titus (NV-01), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), John A. Yarmuth (KY-03), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Norma J. Torres (CA-35), David E. Price (NC-04), Danny K. Davis (IL-07), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), and Paul D. Tonko (NY-20). Click here to view today’s letter to Secretary Kerry. Full Text of the Letter to Secretary Kerry is Below: December 13, 2016 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, We write to express our greatest sense of urgency and extreme concern regarding the escalation of murders, threats and attacks against Colombian human rights defenders, trade unionists, LGBT and women activists, land rights advocates, and community, campesino, Afro-Colombian and Indigenous leaders. We know that you share our concern. For this reason, we urge you to press and work with the Colombian government to publicly condemn this violence in the strongest possible terms, increase and expand mechanisms designed to prevent such attacks from being carried out, and provide defenders and social leaders protection so that they may continue exercising their invaluable leadership and work. Such actions must be done repeatedly and consistently, in all regions and at all levels of government. We also strongly recommend that protection measures be designed in close consultation with vulnerable communities, individuals and organizations in order to strengthen their effectiveness. We emphatically condemn these murders and the intimidation of social leaders and activists. They are the very human capital that Colombia requires as it now faces the challenges of implementing the peace accords, promoting development and political participation, and providing guarantees for truth, justice, reparations and an end to violence. Colombia does not need more victims; it needs community, regional and national leaders willing to take on these challenges. In June, U.S. Ambassador Kevin Whitaker joined the ambassadors from Sweden, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Norway and Canada and denounced the killings of Colombian human rights defenders and pledged to work on behalf of defenders at risk. We strongly encourage you to direct Ambassador Whitaker and this diplomatic group to visit areas where defenders are most threatened and vulnerable, denounce the violence perpetrated against these defenders and activists, and provide mechanisms of protection. At the same time, we urge you, Mr. Secretary, to work with the appropriate authorities in Colombia to ensure the prompt implementation of point 3.4 of the Peace Accord in its entirety, which includes a fully functioning High Level Commission on Security Guarantees and an active Special Investigation Unit within the Public Prosecutor’s Office, along with point 5.2., which commits the government to establishing policies and strategies of protection for human rights defenders, in particular those who are victims of paramilitary and official authorities. Given the spike in killings and assaults, it is imperative that these mandates are achieved rapidly and vigorously. It is also notable that neither of these points was raised as a matter of controversy by opponents of the accords. Please know, Mr. Secretary, that we stand ready to provide whatever support we can to protect these defenders and activists and advance their role in building and consolidating a just and lasting peace in Colombia. Sincerely, ###
12.12.2016	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced the local student winners of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge (CAC) in the Massachusetts 2nd Congressional District, a competition aimed at encouraging high school students to learn how to code by creating their own applications. The winners were Worcester Polytechnic Institute students Arun Jeevanantham and Da-Jin Chu, both in the school’s Massachusetts Academy of Math and Science. The students’ app makes performing calculations easier and faster. They decided to develop the app because they discovered a dilemma: handheld calculators are bulky and complex, but mobile calculator apps are hard to use and lacking in features. Their app takes the best of both worlds by letting users drag, pinch, and circle to crunch numbers with ease. Click here for a video tutorial from the students. “Today I am excited to congratulate these amazing students on this exceptional app that highlights the importance of computer science and STEM education, great local teachers, and the incredible potential of our young people,” Congressman McGovern said. “Each year the Congressional App Challenge encourages students to be creative and teaches skills that will help pave the way to good-paying jobs and exciting careers. My message to all of our Massachusetts students and teachers is keep up the great work. I look forward to seeing all the great apps submitted by our students next year.” Caption: From Left to Right: Tim Loew, Executive Director of MassDiGI; Michael Barney, Director of Mass Academy; Congressman McGovern, Da-Jin Chu, and Arun Jeevanantham. “We are proud of the work and the creativity of our students and feel it is important that our school supports a great Computer Science program here,” said Michael Barney, Director of Mass Academy. “Kudos to our Computer Science Teacher, Angela Taricco, who prepares our students well. DaJin and Arun are awesome students, highly motivated, and very skilled. This is great recognition for both of them. We appreciate the sponsorship of Congressman McGovern, and all the sponsors of this program to highlight the need of Computer Science in Secondary Education curriculum.” BACKGROUND ON 2016 WINNING APP Questions & Answers with Students and Competition Judge What was a difficulty you faced in coding your app? What coding solutions did you use to solve it? After a few months of work, our GitHub repository (https://github.com/ottodog/apps-for-good) reached over 100 commits, and the rising complexity of our code became a major problem. There were so many pieces of code dependent on other pieces of code that trying to introduce a new feature in one part of the app often broke a different part. Our pace of development slowed to a halt. We took a step back and investigated why our code was so hard to work with. We discovered a major problem: the code doing calculations and governing how our app behaves, also known as the business logic, and the code that manages the user interface were either the same or interspersed within the same file. This made it difficult to change how the app looked without breaking how the app functioned or vice versa. In addition, this conglomerate of business and user interface code caused us many headaches when debugging because it was hard to trace errors. To solve this problem, we introduced an object oriented principle called model-view separation. It required a major rewrite of the app in which we isolated all of the business logic into a set of classes, called the model, that could operate independently of the user interface. The user interface code, called the view, was then rewritten to take the model as input, and display the graphical user interface accordingly. If you were going to create version 2.0 of your app, what improvements would you make? We are working towards a version 2 currently. We want to integrate a computer algebra system and add the ability to insert graphs. To completely meet our goal of bringing the power of handheld calculators to the portability and ease of use of smartphones, we need to be able to have all the functionality of handheld calculators. A major part of advanced calculators is the inclusion of computer algebra systems, which can solve and simplify equations. Letting users define functions and insert graphs will make further use of our novel visualization system. Since equations in our app are already laid out on a virtual graph paper, adding real graphs will be a natural next step. Adding these two features will increase the use cases for our app. Judged by Tim Loew, Executive Director of MassDiGI What did the students do particularly well? “What a precocious programming effort! Building a calculator app that utilizes touch-technology is a big task. It was great to learn a little about how the team approached its work and overcame issues to get the app to where it is now – and where’s it’s going.” In what arena should the students focus their improvement efforts? “In addition to a continued focus on programming (keep pushing yourselves), while keeping an eye on scope, it’d be great to see some additional thought put into UI, UX design, too. All in all, a job well done.” BACKGROUND ON CONGRESSIONAL APP CHALLENGE The Congressional App Challenge is intended to highlight the value of computer science and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) education and encourage students to engage in these fields. By encouraging and recognizing our nation’s young programming talent, Congress hopes to shine a light on the growing importance of these skills. The Challenge is open to all U.S. high school students in participating districts. Challenge participants are invited, either as individuals or as teams 0f up to four, to create and submit their own software application (“app”) for mobile, tablet, or other computing devices on a platform of their choice. A panel of local computer science professionals and congressional representatives will judge the apps, and the winners in each district will have the honor of being recognized by their Congressional representative. The CAC is coordinated by the Congressional Internet Caucus and the non-governmental sponsor of the project, the Internet Education Foundation. Click here to read more about the Congressional App Challenge. ###
12.09.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on U.S.-Russia policy, released the following statement today after President Obama ordered a full review of Russian interference in this year’s election: “With overwhelming evidence of Russian interference intended to influence the outcome of this year’s election, I am pleased that President Obama has ordered a full investigation to determine the extent of the Russian hacking. This was an attack on American democracy. Plain and simple. Protecting our elections from foreign interference is vital to our national security and should be supported by both Republicans and Democrats alike. “In addition to praising Russian President Vladimir Putin on the campaign trail, President-elect Trump openly encouraged Russian hackers to target his political opponent. Given the reluctance of our next president to stand up to Russia, there is even greater urgency for a full investigation of the Russian hacking, before President Obama leaves office next month. The American people deserve the truth and nothing less.” ###
12.09.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that UMass Medical School has been awarded $836,858 by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support research on treatments and cures for heart and vascular diseases. The new federal funding is awarded through the Community Surveillance of Coronary Heart Disease program, a national HHS effort to invest in medical research at world-class universities like UMass Medical School. “Heart disease impacts families across the country every year and there has never been a more important time to invest in life-saving medical research. This new federal funding for UMass Medical School will help them continue their cutting-edge medical research that will help save lives while supporting economic growth right here in Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to HHS Secretary Burwell for making this investment in our community and recognizing UMass Medical School as a leader in the fight against heart disease. Together we can continue to support this important work to help families in Massachusetts and across the country.” The grant continues the decades-long work of the Worcester Heart Attack Study, funded by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute since the mid-1980s. The community-based study provides 40 years of data about the number of heart attacks among residents of the Greater Worcester community and outcomes of their medical care during and after hospitalization. It also provides insights on how patients who experience heart attacks in the community are treated by physicians. “We’re going to have a 40-year picture of heart disease, which is unique. What we’ve learned since 1975 is that even though Worcester heart attack patients have become older and sicker, often having multiple diseases, the incidence of heart attacks is declining, and patients’ prognosis both in-hospital and post-discharge is getting better,” said Robert Goldberg, PhD, professor of quantitative health sciences and founder and principal investigator of the renamed Worcester Heart Attack Study. “We think this is because patients are being much more aggressively managed with evidence-based care. “What we want to learn is will these trajectories continue: will incidence of heart attacks continue to decrease? Will patients’ prognosis continue to improve? And how much more effectively can patients be managed?” The new funding will help Dr. Goldberg and his research team achieve these goals by monitoring trends of heart attack patients; and patient management . “Most novel is that we’re going to use bioinformatics and very technical approaches to sift through available medical records, be they in paper or electronic form, and see how machines do compared to our manual abstractors,” Goldberg said. “The goal is to streamline the approach to data collection and data abstraction and give feedback to investigators and clinicians in real time.” ###
12.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led a group of House Democrats in a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Defense Secretary Ash Carter to push for meaningful human control as a safeguard on lethal autonomous weapons systems, also known as fully autonomous weapons or so-called “killer robots – an emerging and concerning military technology. The letter comes ahead of the upcoming Fifth Review Conference of the Convention on Conventional Weapons (CCW) to be held at the United Nations in Geneva on December 12-16, 2016. The CCW is five-year Review Conference and will focus on lethal autonomous weapons systems. Click Here to View the Letter Online. In today’s letter to the Obama Administration, Congressman McGovern and House Democrats write that these weapons “would constitute a new method of warfare – and one that would not be for the betterment of humankind. Once activated, these weapons would be able to select and attack targets without any further human involvement. While these weapons do not yet exist, technology is racing ahead, and experts say that they could be procured within years, not decades." Joining Congressman McGovern on today’s letter to the White House were Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Mark Pocan (D-WI), John Conyers (D-MI), John Lewis (D-GA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), and Maxine Waters (D-CA). The lawmakers expressed their support of “the call for a preemptive prohibition on the development, production, and use of fully autonomous weapons. This call has been endorsed by thousands of artificial intelligence and robotics experts, including many of the most respected people in those fields, as well as two dozen Nobel peace Laureates, more than 100 prominent faith leaders, numerous humanitarian organizations and many more. This prohibition, which should require meaningful human control over target selection and engagement for each individual attack, could be achieved as a new CCW protocol.” In today’s letter, McGovern and House Democrats called on the Obama Administration to take the following actions at the CCW Review Conference next week: The U.S. should strongly support the continuation of discussions in the CCW on the legal, ethical, technological, proliferation, international security, and other challenges raised by what the CCW calls “lethal autonomous weapons systems.” The U.S. should strongly and unequivocally support the recommendation agreed to by CCW members, including the United States, in April that states establish a Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) at this Review Conference to continue these deliberations next year. The creation of an open-ended GGE would move the CCW discussions from informal to the more appropriate formal status, and indicate that the CCW is making progress on the issue and intends to produce a result. Such groups have been the CCW’s established method of work for the past two decades to address explosive remnants of war, landmines and cluster munitions. The U.S. agreed to the recommendation in April with reluctance, and at an August meeting, the U.S. indicated its preference is to continue the process using the current format of informal meetings. Given the uncertainty on advancing arms control measures, support for proceeding to the more formal process seems warranted. The U.S. should propose an ambitious mandate for CCW work in 2017, one that states that CCW deliberations in 2017 should be carried out with a view to formal negotiations on lethal autonomous weapons systems in the future. The U.S. should propose that the CCW commits to at least four weeks of time for its deliberations on lethal autonomous weapons systems in 2017. In the past, the CCW has only made progress on issues when it devoted such an amount of time. Click Here to View the Letter Online. The Full Text of Today’s Letter to the Obama Administration is Below: December 8, 2016 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, DC 20520 The Honorable Ashton B. Carter Secretary of Defense U.S. Department of Defense Washington, DC 20301-1400 Dear Secretaries Kerry and Carter, We are writing with respect to the upcoming Fifth Review Conference of the Convention on Conventional Weapons (CCW) to be held at the United Nations in Geneva on December 12-16, 2016. The main focus of this five-year Review Conference will be lethal autonomous weapons systems, also known as fully autonomous weapons or so-called “killer robots.” The high contracting parties, including the United States, will decide whether to continue discussions on this issue in the CCW, and if so, what the format, content, objective and duration of the talks should be. We believe that fully autonomous weapons are a matter of vital concern. They would not simply be another weapon in the world’s arsenals, but would constitute a new method of warfare – and one that would not be for the betterment of humankind. Once activated, these weapons would be able to select and attack targets without any further human involvement. While these weapons do not yet exist, technology is racing ahead, and experts say that they could be procured within years, not decades. We support the call for a preemptive prohibition on the development, production, and use of fully autonomous weapons. This call has been endorsed by thousands of artificial intelligence and robotics experts, including many of the most respected people in those fields, as well as two dozen Nobel peace Laureates, more than 100 prominent faith leaders, numerous humanitarian organizations and many more. This prohibition, which should require meaningful human control over target selection and engagement for each individual attack, could be achieved as a new CCW protocol. The CCW has already taken similar action on one weapon, namely preemptively banning blinding laser weapons through its Protocol IV. We urge that at the CCW Review Conference in December the U.S. delegation take the following actions: The U.S. should strongly support the continuation of discussions in the CCW on the legal, ethical, technological, proliferation, international security, and other challenges raised by what the CCW calls “lethal autonomous weapons systems.” The U.S. should strongly and unequivocally support the recommendation agreed to by CCW members, including the United States, in April that states establish a Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) at this Review Conference to continue these deliberations next year. The creation of an open-ended GGE would move the CCW discussions from informal to the more appropriate formal status, and indicate that the CCW is making progress on the issue and intends to produce a result. Such groups have been the CCW’s established method of work for the past two decades to address explosive remnants of war, landmines and cluster munitions. The U.S. agreed to the recommendation in April with reluctance, and at an August meeting, the U.S. indicated its preference is to continue the process using the current format of informal meetings. Given the uncertainty on advancing arms control measures, support for proceeding to the more formal process seems warranted. The U.S. should propose an ambitious mandate for CCW work in 2017, one that states that CCW deliberations in 2017 should be carried out with a view to formal negotiations on lethal autonomous weapons systems in the future. The U.S. should propose that the CCW commits to at least four weeks of time for its deliberations on lethal autonomous weapons systems in 2017. In the past, the CCW has only made progress on issues when it devoted such an amount of time. In closing, we would like to stress that we recognize the importance of artificial intelligence and robotics to the future of the U.S. military, and their central role in the Pentagon’s Third Offset Strategy, but we firmly believe that there must always be meaningful human control over critical combat functions. Sincerely,. ###
12.08.2016	Today, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) applauded Congressional passage of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, a bill he co-authored to crack down on corruption and human rights abuses around the world. The bill was passed as part of the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 375-34. Congressman McGovern is one of four co-sponsors of the bipartisan legislation along with Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Ben Cardin (D-MD) and Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ). The bill now goes to President Obama’s desk for his signature. “America must stand up for human rights at home and abroad. With today’s passage of the Global Magnitsky Act, Republicans and Democrats came together to continue America’s leadership on human rights around the world,” Congressman McGovern said. “This bill will empower the president to deny U.S. visas and freeze U.S.-based assets of human rights abusers and corrupt foreign officials. I urge President Obama to sign this important bill into law. This is an important step, but there is still much more work ahead. “ “During the campaign, two words I never heard Donald Trump utter were ‘human rights’ and that should concern all of us. President-elect Trump has repeatedly praised Vladimir Putin and other world leaders guilty of brutal crackdowns on dissidents. Since his election, President-elect Trump has continued to raise red flags about his approach to political opponents,” McGovern added. “Americans need a leader who will stand up for the freedoms our country was founded on and I hope President-elect Trump proves his critics wrong and uses the new tools in this bill to bring the leadership we need on human rights.” The Global Magnitsky Act allows the president to deny U.S. visas and freeze U.S.-based assets of human rights abusers and corrupt foreign officials. It also directs the president to consider information from NGOs when determining who to sanction. Members of Congress and certain assistant secretaries of state may also recommend names for sanction. The president is required to make public the names of individuals being targeted. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in the call for U.S. leadership and action to strengthen human rights across the world, including in Russia. Congressman McGovern is one of the authors of the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act, legislation passed by both the U.S. House and Senate in 2012 to establish a critical precedent that human rights must be an essential component of trade legislation. The Magnitsky Bill was named after Sergei Leonidovich Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer and auditor who worked for Hermitage Capital Management. Magnitsky’s arrest and subsequent death while in Russian custody triggered both official and unofficial inquiries into allegations of fraud, theft, and human rights violations. ###
12.06.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on foreign policy and human rights, praised President Obama’s foreign policy speech tonight for calling Congress to task for their failure to vote on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) for the U.S. war against ISIS. In tonight’s speech, President Obama said, “Right now we are waging war under authority provided by Congress over 15 years ago…Two years ago, I asked Congress. Let’s update the authorization. Provide us a new authorization for the war against ISIL reflecting the changing nature of the threats. Reflecting the lessons we’ve learned from the last decade. So far, Congress has refused to take a vote. Democracies should not operate in a state of permanently authorized war. That’s not good for our military. That’s not good for our democracy.” Click Here for the Video Clip of President Obama’s Speech. Congressman McGovern applauded President Obama’s speech: “President Obama’s speech tonight was a powerful reminder that Congress is sitting on the sidelines in the war against ISIS. The U.S. has now been at war with ISIS for more than two years, spent more than $6.8 billion on these military operations, and still Congress has failed to vote on whether to authorize this war. Americans are tired of endless war and that’s why this debate and vote is so important. “Speaker Ryan promised to make a debate and vote on an AUMF for the war against ISIS a top priority this year. Now 2016 is nearly done and there’s no AUMF in sight. While America’s brave men and women in uniform are putting themselves in harms’ way in the fight against ISIS, Congress refuses to do its duty and authorize their deployment. “President Obama did his job by sending Congress an AUMF for the war on ISIS. It is up to Congress to do its job by either debating and voting on that proposal or putting forward its own. Tonight I join President Obama in once again calling on Congress to step up and finally do its constitutional duty to debate and vote on an AUMF for Iraq and Syria.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in this debate. In November 2015, McGovern led a bipartisan group of 35 House lawmakers in a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan calling for a debate and vote on an AUMF for the U.S. military engagement against ISIS. Earlier in 2015, McGovern led a bipartisan push to force a vote on an AUMF. ###
12.05.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on human rights, called on President-elect Donald Trump to take immediate steps to eliminate potential conflicts of interest created by the government of Bahrain paying the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C. to host a major public event this week to influence U.S. policy. Click here to view the letter online. “Each president must ensure that there is not even the appearance of impropriety and using the office for private gain. There must be no question about whether the president’s decisions are influenced by foreign businesses and governments,” Congressman McGovern wrote in today’s letter. “It is therefore deeply troubling that the government of Bahrain would be spending untold sums of money at a hotel that you are leasing from the federal government to host a major public event intended to influence U.S. policy. “The American people deserve a president and White House that will act solely in our country’s interests, not those of any foreign government or business. Your private commercial dealings with repressive governments endanger this fundamental expectation of the president and deeply trouble many who care about human rights,” McGovern added. “I urge you to immediately and completely end your business dealings with the Bahraini and other foreign governments.” Today’s letter outlines three essential steps that President-elect Trump must take to address these conflicts of interest and protect the presidency from foreign influence: Reject all business income from the Bahraini monarchy and any other foreign government. Release all correspondence between the Bahraini monarchy and your businesses, including price negotiations and final contracts. Release all correspondence between any foreign government and any of your businesses since you announced your campaign for president. The letter also details some of the most troubling human rights abuses in Bahrain: As early as mid-December, Bahrain’s courts could sentence human rights defender Nabeel Rajab to 15 years in prison for social media posts critical of their government. Peaceful opposition leader Sheikh Ali Salman may have his already unjust four-year prison sentence lengthened due to a re-trial on charges for which he was previously acquitted. Prominent human rights lawyer Mohamed al-Tajer faces more than five years in prison for alleged offenses that violate his right to free expression. Former leader of the Waad party, Ibrahim Shariff, confronts charges for expressing concerns in an interview with the Associated Press that a visit by Britain’s Prince Charles would serve to “whitewash” human rights abuses. Click here to view the letter online. Full text of the letter to President-elect Trump is below: December 5, 2016 Donald J. Trump President-Elect of the United States Trump Tower 725 5th Avenue New York, NY 10022 Dear President-Elect Trump, I write to express my deep concern regarding reports that the Kingdom of Bahrain will host its 2016 Bahrain National Day celebration at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., this coming Wednesday, December 7th. In less than two months, you will take the oath of office and be inaugurated as the 45th President of the United States. With the immense power that comes with the presidency, it is essential that the individual in that office is held to the highest standards of ethics and transparency. Each president must ensure that there is not even the appearance of impropriety and using the office for private gain. There must be no question about whether the president’s decisions are influenced by foreign businesses and governments. It is therefore deeply troubling that the government of Bahrain would be spending untold sums of money at a hotel that you are leasing from the federal government to host a major public event intended to influence U.S. policy. Bahrain is widely recognized as an increasingly repressive monarchy that has repeatedly imprisoned and tortured peaceful critics. As early as mid-December, Bahrain’s courts could sentence human rights defender Nabeel Rajab to 15 years in prison for social media posts critical of their government. Peaceful opposition leader Sheikh Ali Salman may have his already unjust four-year prison sentence lengthened due to a re-trial on charges for which he was previously acquitted. Prominent human rights lawyer Mohamed al-Tajer faces more than five years in prison for alleged offenses that violate his right to free expression. Former leader of the Waad party, Ibrahim Shariff, confronts charges for expressing concerns in an interview with the Associated Press that a visit by Britain’s Prince Charles would serve to “whitewash” human rights abuses. These are just a few examples; there are many more. To protect the presidency from foreign influence, we urge you to take the following immediate steps: Reject all business income from the Bahraini monarchy and any other foreign government. Release all correspondence between the Bahraini monarchy and your businesses, including price negotiations and final contracts. Release all correspondence between any foreign government and any of your businesses since you announced your campaign for president. The American people deserve a president and White House that will act solely in our country’s interests, not those of any foreign government or business. Your private commercial dealings with repressive governments endanger this fundamental expectation of the president and deeply trouble many who care about human rights. I urge you to immediately and completely end your business dealings with the Bahraini and other foreign governments. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress ###
12.01.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, joined House Democrats in calling for passage of legislation to require presidential candidates to disclose three years of their tax returns. This year, President-elect Donald Trump became the first presidential nominee in more than 30 years to not release his tax returns. Speaking on S. 2943, the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act Conference Report, Congressman McGovern emphasized the need for the American people to know where a presidential candidate has financial dealings because of the direct impact that could have on national security. VIDEO: Click here for Part One. Click here for Part Two. McGovern pointed to the example of President-elect Donald Trump and his glowing praise of Russian President Vladimir Putin, raising questions about Trump’s potential financial dealings in Russia and whether he would stand up to Putin to protect U.S. interests and defend human rights. “Tax returns provide the public with vital information about our presidential candidates. Have they paid taxes at all? Do they keep money offshore? Or have they taken advantage of tax loopholes? This is important information that voters have a right to know. “The American people should expect candidates running for president to be open and transparent about their tax returns. And this legislation would ensure that transparency. It is hard for me to believe that giving people the right to know about presidential candidates’ financial dealings is controversial. I hope that this isn’t. “I think where a presidential candidate and soon-to-be-President has financial dealings is directly related to our national defense. Does he have investments in Russia? Does he have investments in countries that have been hostile to human rights or to U.S. interests in various parts of the world? That is very relevant.” McGovern also highlighted the Global Magnitsky Act which aims to builds on the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act, legislation that McGovern authored. That legislation focused on Russia and was approved by Congress and signed into law in 2012. The law targets individual Russian officials accountable for the death of Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, as well as other Russian officials engaged in corruption, human rights abuses or who seek to undermine the rule of law. It denies them visas to the United States, and freezes their assets in the United States. The Global Magnitsky Act would extend the use of those same targeted sanctions to all countries, not just Russia, and ensure that visiting the United States and having access to our financial system, including U.S. dollars, are privileges not granted to those who violate human rights and the rule of law. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “Tax returns provide the public with vital information about our presidential candidates. Have they paid taxes at all? Do they keep money offshore? Or have they taken advantage of tax loopholes? This is important information that voters have a right to know. “The American people should expect candidates running for president to be open and transparent about their tax returns. And this legislation would ensure that transparency. It is hard for me to believe that giving people the right to know about presidential candidates’ financial dealings is controversial. I hope that this isn’t. “I think where a presidential candidate and soon-to-be-President has financial dealings is directly related to our national defense. Does he have investments in Russia? Does he have investments in countries that have been hostile to human rights or to U.S. interests in various parts of the world? That is very relevant. “I don’t know where the head of our next president is going to be when it comes to standing up to abuses by people like Vladimir Putin against opposition leaders and journalists and anybody he disagrees with. “This bill is named after a guy named Sergei Magnitsky, who, by the way, was an accountant in Russia who uncovered the largest corruption scandal in Russia’s history. And what was his reward for doing that? Putin had him put in jail. He was tortured. And he was beaten to death. That’s what happens in places that are run by strong men like Vladimir Putin. “So yes, I’d like to know whether or not our next president has investments in Russia. I think that would be very relevant to know. And quite frankly, the reason this Magnitsky legislation is so important is it gives us a tool to pressure the next administration on the issue of human rights. And it is a signal to Putin and other dictators and strong men around the world that Congress is not going to be silent in the face of human rights abuses. “Let the American people know what the financial dealings of their presidential candidates and soon-to-be-presidents are.” ###
11.28.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) honored the military service of Thomas McGrath Jr., who served in the United States Navy from 1957 thru 1959. As part of today’s event recognizing McGrath’s military service to our country, Congressman McGovern and State Rep. Jim O’Day presented him with a vintage World War II blanket similar to the white wool Bunk Blanket he received and cherished while in the Navy. In the early 1970s, a young woman was hit by a car on Clark Street in Worcester. McGrath’s children had been walking home from church youth group together with the teenager when the incident occurred. Mr. McGrath rushed out of his home to assist the young woman and told his children to get a blanket from their home to cover her with. They brought out his Navy blanket. He covered the young woman with the blanket. She ultimately passed away and Mr. McGrath never saw his Navy blanket again. “Today I am honored to recognize the extraordinary service of Tom McGrath both in the U.S. Navy and when he returned home to Worcester. Tom proudly represented our country on the U.S.S. Boston across the world and continued to serve our community here in Central Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “When a young woman was hit by a car near his home, he rushed to help her and wrapped her in a blanket he received in the Navy. I know that blanket was a great comfort to her in her time of need. Today we present Tom with a vintage World War II blanket similar to the original to thank him for his continued service to our country both in and out of uniform. He is a shining example of the dedication and service that define our country’s veterans and we are forever grateful to him and all who serve.” CAPTION: Worcester veteran Thomas McGrath Jr. with vintage World War II Navy blanket, surrounded by family, supporters, Congressman McGovern, and State Rep. Jim O’Day. At today’s event, Congressman McGovern was joined today by State Representative Jim O’Day as well as members of McGrath’s family and community members. McGrath served on the U.S.S. Boston, the world’s first Baltimore Class guided missile cruiser, and his service included voyages through the Panama Canal, across the Equator and across the Arctic Circle during the 1957 NATO exercises. In 1957 he participated in the funeral of King Haakon of Norway as the official United States representative. McGrath was twice deployed to the Mediterranean as a member of the Sixth Fleet and participated in good will missions and efforts to advance democracy overseas. While deployed in the Mediterranean in 1958, the U.S.S. Boston stood ready while President Nixon worked through the Lebanon Mid-East Crisis. ###
11.26.2016	Today U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement on the passing of Fidel Castro. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in the effort to begin a new chapter in U.S.-Cuba relations, traveling to Cuba frequently over the past 30 years and meeting with President Fidel Castro and other Cuban leaders to support reforms and advance opportunity for both countries. Congressman McGovern joined President Obama when he traveled to Cuba earlier this year and in August 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry in Havana for the re-opening of the U.S. Embassy in Cuba. Additionally, in December 2015, Congressman McGovern helped launch a bipartisan Cuba Working Group to build on the historic progress begun under President Obama’s new policy. “Today is the end of an era for Cuba, the United States, and the world as we mark the passing of Fidel Castro. "For more than 50 years the relationship between the United States and Cuba has often been defined by divisions. In the last two years, I have been proud to work with Republicans and Democrats to open a new chapter and advance the economic and political reforms that will strengthen human rights and benefit all Cuban people. “In my travels to Cuba, I have been grateful to find ways for our two countries to work together, including our joint effort to conserve and restore the Cuban home of Ernest Hemingway, the Finca Vigia. This historic U.S.-Cuban collaboration to save an important piece of our shared culture, initiated under a Republican president and continued by a Democratic one, is a shining example of how all parties can come together to work toward a brighter future. “In my meetings with President Castro and other Cuban leaders, I expressed strong disagreements on human rights and pushed for needed reforms, but also recognized their efforts to expand education and healthcare for the Cuban people. Today, we offer condolences to the family of Fidel Castro and our thoughts and prayers are with the Cuban people. “Now is a time for our two countries to continue the important work of finding common ground and working together to advance opportunity and prosperity for both our people and nations. More than ever the U.S. must continue to be a friend and partner to the Cuban people as we work together to expand opportunity for our two countries through trade, travel, and political engagement. “It is time to remove all restrictions and impediments between our two nations, help reunite the Cuban family, and build a respectful, prosperous and democratic future that supports the rights and aspirations of all the Cuban people as we begin this new chapter.” ###
11.18.2016	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Next Monday, November 21st, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will kick off the 7th annual “Monte’s March,” a 43-mile two-day walk as part of his anti-hunger push in Western Massachusetts. Congressmen Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) and Richard Neal (MA-01) will be among those joining the event. The march is aimed at helping to increase awareness about hunger in local communities and help Massachusetts families in need this thanksgiving. “As we prepare for Thanksgiving, there are many Massachusetts families who are struggling just to put food on the table,” Congressman McGovern said. “To bring our communities together and raise awareness to help families in need, we’ll be kicking off the seventh annual Monte’s March, the longest-yet at 43 miles across Western Massachusetts. Hunger is something that touches families across the Commonwealth, but together, we can help to ensure that every family has access to the healthy meals they need this holiday season.” Joining Congressman McGovern for the full 43 miles will be the founder of Monte’s March, WRSI The River radio host Monte Belmonte, as well as Andrew Morehouse, the Executive Director of The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. Also joining part of the march will be Congressmen Richard Neal and Joe Kennedy III; State Rep. Aaron Vega; State Rep-Elect Solomon Goldstein-Rose; students from Holyoke Community College, Greenfield Community College and The Greenfield Center School; and local mayors, and other community leaders. This year’s hunger walk will be the longest yet at 43 miles, starting on Monday with stops in Springfield, Chicopee, Holyoke, and Northampton. The walk will finish on Tuesday with stops in Hadley, Amherst, Sunderland, and Greenfield. Throughout the march, you can listen live at 93.9 The River. Click here for more information about the march. OVERVIEW: WHAT: Monte’s March, a 43-mile anti-hunger march across Western Massachusetts WHEN: Monday 11/21 at 7:00AM WHERE: March Starts at Friends of The Homeless. 755 Worthington St., Springfield The march continues Monday with stops in Chicopee, Holyoke, and Northampton On Tuesday 11/22 with stops in Hadley, Amherst, Sunderland, and ending in Greenfield Full info below: FULL SCHEDULE: MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21st 7:00 am – Depart from Friends of The Homeless. 755 Worthington St. Springfield 8:30 am – Arrive at Chicopee City Limits 9:00 am – Arrive in Chicopee Falls 10:00 am – Arrive in Downtown Holyoke 11:00 am - 2:00 pm – Finish first day, walking down Northampton Street to Northampton 6:30 pm – Fundraising event at The Northampton Brewery, 11 Brewster Ct, Northampton Note: Throughout the day, the march will be joined by Holyoke Community College students TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd 6:00 am – Depart Northampton Office, 94 Pleasant Street. 7:00 am – Arrival at Route 9 in Hadley near Mi Tierra 8:00 am – Arrival at Whole Foods in Hadley 9:15 am – Arrival in Downtown Amherst 10:30 am – Arrival at Amherst Survival Center 12:00 pm – Arrival in Downtown Sunderland 1:15 pm – Arrival at Chandler’s Restaurant at Yankee Candle for Lunch 2:30 pm Arrival at Route 5 & 10 north joined by students from Greenfield Community College and The Greenfield Center School 5:00 pm: Arrival in Greenfield 5:30 pm or 6:00 pm: Completion of march at Seymour The Pub, 5 Bank Row, Greenfield. ###
11.16.2016	Today at the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), the top Democrat on the Nutrition Subcommittee, delivered a strong defense of the the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance (SNAP) program. Congressman McGovern said any House Republican pushing a dangerous plan to block grant, cut or limit access to the critical food assistance provided by SNAP to families in need should “be prepared for one hell of a fight,” saying that “this is a fight worth having.” Today’s hearing was entitled: “The Past, Present, and Future of SNAP: Opportunities for Improving Access to Food” and is the 18th hearing on SNAP held by the Committee in just the 114th Congress. Highlights of Congressman McGovern’s Opening Statement: “We’ve learned that the SNAP program is a powerful tool for improving nutrition, insulating families against hardship, and lifting people out of poverty. It is effective, and it is efficiently run. The very modest benefit – which averages about $1.40 per person, per meal – helped to keep over 10 million people out of poverty in 2012, including almost 5 million children. “SNAP is working as intended. Not once have we heard from our witnesses that block granting SNAP will reduce hunger or strengthen this program. In fact, we’ve heard the opposite. And if we want to talk about improving access to food, we should be discussing ways to increase SNAP benefits. If anything, the average benefit of $1.40 per person, per meal is too low. “We ought to find ways to increase access to food by piloting the use of SNAP benefits online, strengthening employment and training programs, expanding SNAP education, incentivizing the purchase of more nutritious foods. All of that would require an increased investment. But I think the return on investment would be enormous. “I have no idea what a Trump Administration coupled with a Republican Congress means for the future of SNAP and other safety net programs. “The majority who benefit from SNAP are kids and senior citizens. These are good people; they are our neighbors. And yet, too often, they are ridiculed, and their plight is belittled in the halls of this Congress. That is wrong. “If next year, the Republican leadership wants to block grant or cut the program or put more hurdles in place to deny people a benefit to put food on their table – be prepared for one hell of a fight. Because this is a fight worth having. “No one – and I mean no one – should go hungry in the United States of America.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Opening Statement: “After 18 hearings, what have we learned? “We’ve learned that the SNAP program is a powerful tool for improving nutrition, insulating families against hardship, and lifting people out of poverty. It is effective, and it is efficiently run. “The very modest benefit – which averages about $1.40 per person, per meal – helped to keep over 10 million people out of poverty in 2012, including almost 5 million children. “So when I reflect on lessons learned from our hearings on SNAP during the 114th Congress, I think about the overwhelmingly supportive testimony we have heard from witnesses about the structure of the SNAP program and its ability to reduce food insecurity among our most vulnerable constituents. “We’ve learned that charities do great work, but they can’t do it alone. “We’ve learned that it’s a bad idea to radically change the SNAP program. It is working as intended. Not once have we heard from our witnesses that block granting SNAP will reduce hunger or strengthen this program. In fact, we’ve heard the opposite. “And if we want to talk about improving access to food, we should be discussing ways to increase SNAP benefits. If anything, the average benefit of $1.40 per person, per meal is too low. “The Recovery Act temporarily increased SNAP benefits and we saw an increase in food expenditures by low-income households, a reduction in food insecurity, and improvements in diet quality, especially among children. “We ought to find ways to increase access to food by piloting the use of SNAP benefits online, strengthening employment and training programs, expanding SNAP education, incentivizing the purchase of more nutritious foods, we ought to address the issue of the “cliff,” among many other things. “All of that would require an increased investment. But I think the return on investment would be enormous. “I have no idea what a Trump Administration coupled with a Republican Congress means for the future of SNAP and other safety net programs. “Quite frankly, I am worried. I spend a lot of time on this stuff. I spend a lot of time with people on SNAP. They don’t fit a stereotype. Many are unemployed – and many work. The majority who benefit from SNAP are kids and senior citizens. “These are good people; they are our neighbors. And yet, too often, they are ridiculed, and their plight is belittled in the halls of this Congress. That is wrong. “So, after 18 hearings, we have learned, from both majority and minority witnesses, that SNAP is not only a good program, but a very good program. It works. “And, if next year, the Republican leadership wants to block grant or cut the program or put more hurdles in place to deny people a benefit to put food on their table – be prepared for one hell of a fight. Because this is a fight worth having. “No one – and I mean no one – should go hungry in the United States of America.” ###
11.02.2016	Today, a select group of Democrats sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, urging him to remain engaged in the Colombian peace process and continue to provide “credible, creative counsel” so that a final agreement may be achieved without delay. The letter encourages the Secretary and the U.S. Special Envoy on Colombia to urge all actors to place the “greater good of Colombia above party or point of view,” and to quickly achieve consensus on a final version of the agreement. In particular, the letter emphasizes maintaining the negotiation’s focus on victims and expresses regret that new actors to discussions on how to modify the peace accords as a result of the failed October 2nd plebiscite have not undergone the “transformative experience” of the government and guerrilla negotiating teams that occurred from their direct interaction with victims’ delegations. “Over the past 15 years, I have met with hundreds of victims of the conflict and have been touched by each of their stories. The voices of the victims must continue to be central to discussions on how to modify the accords,” said Congressman McGovern. “It is important that these final adjustments to the accords be made quickly, while the government-FARC ceasefire remains firm.” Finally, the letter supports the advances made in the existing accords to safeguard the rights of victims, women, Afro-Colombians, Indigenous Peoples and other minorities. The letter is signed by members of Congress who are viewed as among the most engaged on U.S.-Colombian relations. It was spearheaded by Representatives Jim McGovern, Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, who has traveled extensively throughout Colombia and is a recognized champion of human rights, development, labor rights and peace in Colombia; Ruben Gallego, the only Colombian-American serving in the U.S. Congress; and Sam Farr, who has been involved with Colombia since the 1960s when he served there as a Peace Corps volunteer. Joining the letter are House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel and House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey – both of whom allocate and oversee U.S. foreign aid to Colombia – and Ways and Means Ranking Member Sander Levin, who oversees trade relations with Colombia and is a champion of workers and labor rights in Colombia. Other signatories include Representatives Jan Schakowsky, Rosa DeLauro and Mark Pocan, all members of the Congressional Monitoring Group on Colombia, as well as Hank Johnson and John Lewis, long-time advocates for Afro-Colombian rights and achieving a negotiated end to Colombia’s conflict. Full text of the letter below: November 2, 2016 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, As Members of Congress who have been deeply engaged on U.S.-Colombia relations, we write to commend you for your strong support of the Colombian peace process and for keeping the U.S. Special Envoy on Colombia’s peace process engaged in negotiations to further refine the peace accords as a result of the recent plebiscite. As you well know, it is important that these final adjustments to the accords be made in a timely manner, while the government-FARC ceasefire remains firm. We are encouraged by how quickly competing sectors have moved forward a plan to navigate the next steps of defining, revising, and re-negotiating the existing accords. We respectfully urge all parties in this process to maintain the central focus on the needs of victims as expressed and defined by the victims themselves. Input from victims proved to be a transformative experience for the government and guerrilla negotiating teams. New actors in this dialogue – and potentially in direct negotiations – have not undergone this same transformative experience nor engaged directly with the scores of victims who formally presented their stories and cases to the negotiators. At the same time, understanding how slender the margin that defeated the plebiscite was, we respectfully counsel putting Colombia’s greater good ahead of party or point of view, in the discussions surrounding adjustments to the existing peace accords. The goal should be to broaden consensus in favor of the agreement. We would offer the same advice were the YES campaign to have triumphed by so insubstantial a degree. We recognize that Colombia is working in uncharted territory, but it is important not to tarry in finding agreement and completing a final accord accepted by all parties. Colombia will find it difficult to achieve its goals as a modern state in the absence of a peace accord and the more inclusive social and economic progress promised through its successful implementation. Mr. Secretary, we urge you, Special Envoy Aronson and all relevant Administration officials to encourage those at the Colombian negotiating table to safeguard the advances made on behalf of victims, women, Afro-Colombians, Indigenous Peoples and other minorities in the existing peace accords. The chapters and provisions addressing the accords’ impact on these groups appropriately identified and responded to the specific and extreme adverse effects these members of Colombian society suffered during decades of conflict. The negotiators addressed these harms with measures tailored to each group’s specific needs and circumstances, especially in the areas of reconciliation, reparations, restorative justice, political participation and economic development. Such recognition and measures are both historic and unprecedented, and provide an important model to other nations engaged in conflict resolution. We believe they are critical to Colombia’s ability to successfully end the conflict and implement a lasting peace. We admire the strong and capable leadership demonstrated by President Santos in the aftermath of the October 2nd plebiscite. We also recognize that all parties and sectors, including the FARC and the proponents of the NO campaign, have expressed a willingness to review in good faith possible changes to the original accords in order to generate a broader consensus in support of the overall accords. We encourage the State Department to remain engaged in providing support and credible, creative counsel so that Colombia may achieve a final peace agreement without delay. Sincerely, James P. McGovern (MA) Eliot L. Engel (NY) Ruben Gallego (AZ) Nita M. Lowey (NY) Sam Farr (CA) Sander M. Levin (MI) John Lewis (GA) Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (GA) Jan Schakowsky (IL) Rosa L. DeLauro (CT) Mark Pocan (WI) ###
10.17.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) is pleased to announce $950,000 in federal grant money from the National Park Service’s Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) Grant Program to parks and recreational projects in Worcester, Northampton, Leominster, Northborough, and Sutton. On Saturday, McGovern was in Sutton to announce $150,000 to Marion’s Camp Lodge for renovations and woodland trail development. Located on Lake Singletary in Sutton, for nearly 60 years, Marion’s Camp served as the Central Mass Camp Fire Camp, hosting youth from all over Worcester County. The grant money will be used to restore and renovate the camp’s historic Goddard Lodge, named after the Camp's namesake Marion Goddard, into a multi-use facility for community events and the Town’s summer recreation programs. McGovern was joined for the announcement by Sutton Board of Selectmen Chair John Hebert, Selectman Jesse Limanek, Town Administrator James Smith, State Representative Joseph D. McKenna (R-Webster), and Sutton Town Planner Jen Hager. “For more than 40 years the Land and Water Conservation Fund has helped Massachusetts protect our parks and open spaces. I have long been a proud champion of the LWCF and the work it does to help cities and towns leverage federal dollars to spur local investment in these vital conservation projects,” McGovern said. “Thank you to the Baker-Polito Administration for working to bring these smart investments to our state. I look forward to seeing these federal dollars in action in Worcester, Sutton, Leominster, Northampton, Northborough, and across Massachusetts.” The four other projects receiving funding through the LWCF in the Second Congressional District are: Betty Price Playground Renovation (Worcester) - $250,000 The project will include the installation of new playground equipment and ADA improvements, including accessible walkways, site amenities, picnic tables, benches, and tree planting. Doyle Field Renovation Project (Leominster) - $250,000 The project will include a grounds; expanded play elements with mulch surfacing and natural play structures; seating areas with granite seat walls; improvements to the walking track; addition of a bocce court; construction of additional bathrooms and a bathroom upgrade; granite distance markers and signage; post lighting for walking path; plantings, lawn improvements, and site furniture, including trash receptacles, bike racks and exercise equipment. Northborough Town Common (Northborough) - $215,000 The project will develop a town common on newly acquired land that will include landscaping, a perimeter trail, lighting, and site amenities. Connecticut River Greenway(Northampton) - $90,000 The project will include a fully accessible boarding pier ramp to provide full access to the water and boats, the completion of paving to allow the site to be ready to serve as a public facility, and the addition of sidewalks, ramp and dock. The LWCF was created in 1965 through an act of Congress. It is funded through off-shore oil leases and provides grants to states, as well as the federal government, for projects that protect open spaces and construct or renovate parks. Massachusetts parks and open spaces have been the beneficiary of more than $100 million since the program’s inception in 1965. Massachusetts maintains eligibility for the program by completing a Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan every five years. ###
10.13.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined local leaders from the Main South Community Development Corporation, the Boys & Girls Club of Worcester and Clark University to celebrate the completion of the new field and track with a dedication at 65 Tainter Street. Congressman McGovern secured nearly $3 million in federal funding to create the lighted bike path that surrounds the track and was designed to provide additional pedestrian and bike access to the Boys and Girls Club for the Main South neighborhood. “Today is a truly exciting day. This new field and track will expand access to green spaces for local families and give kids new opportunities for outdoor recreation and positive afterschool activities,” Congressman McGovern said. “The successful completion of this project is another strong step toward a rejuvenated Main South. I was proud to help bring federal dollars back to our district to invest in the bike path around the track and I am grateful to work with such great partners in the City, Clark University, the Boys and Girls Club and the Main South Community Development Corporation to help us revitalize this neighborhood. Together we are building a strong and vibrant community for all of our families.” Opening the new field marks the culmination of the Kilby-Gardner-Hammond project, begun in the late 1990s. The project so far comprises more than 100 new housing units, the $9.2 million Boys & Girls Club, and the new, $3 million field and track. This facility will be used by Clark University for intercollegiate, club, intramural, and recreation sports. It will also be shared with the Boys and Girls Club, giving the young people there an essential outdoor play space. Caption: (From Left to Right) Jack Foley (Clark University Assistant Secretary to the Board), Dusty Miller (Boys & Girls Club of Worcester Board Member), Congressman McGovern, David Angel (Clark University President), Liz Hamilton (Boys & Girls Club of Worcester Executive Director), and Steve Teasdale (Executive Director of the Main South CDC). Joining Congressman McGovern at the ceremonies today were Stephen Teasdale, Executive Director of the Main South CDC; David Angel, President of Clark University; and Liz Hamilton, Executive Director of the Boys & Girls Club of Worcester, and other local leaders. “This field represents just the latest in a long history of successful partnering between Clark and our neighbors in Main South,” President Angel said. “The investments of our community along with city, state and federal agencies, private investment and development firms have resulted in a successful revitalization project sure to benefit all.” “We’re thrilled to cut the ribbon and officially help Clark University open their new collegiate field, located next to our Harrington Clubhouse,” writes Hamilton. “This field will create opportunities for our kids we’ve never been able to provide in the past. We’re extremely appreciative of Clark for allowing our Club to utilize the field to offer sports such as snow-shoeing, lacrosse, track, and flag football.” After officials finish their remarks, they plan to toss and kick soccer balls onto the new field for the club kids to “kick off” the new playing field. The field and track project is another in a series of collaborations between the Main South CDC, the city, federal and state government and Clark University to revitalize Main South. The nearly $3 million project secured by McGovern for the bike path project also included roadway improvements identified for Kilby and Gardner streets, including street light modifications, sidewalk replacement, curb resetting, roadway mill and overlay, and full depth pavement repairs as necessary. Improvements in the project also included additional crosswalks and shared roadway markings to tie the improvements into the bike path. ###
10.13.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced a $7,749,620 grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for the Worcester Regional Airport. The new federal funding will support additional taxiway construction and will help Massport to continue their work to grow Worcester Airport and increase its capacity to serve Central Massachusetts travelers. “Keeping our region’s economy growing starts with strong investments in infrastructure. Worcester Regional Airport is key to making Central Massachusetts a destination for businesses and this grant will help us continue our work to bring new jobs to the region,” Congressman McGovern said. “This new funding will help to strengthen and increase Worcester Airport’s capacity by supporting additional taxiway construction so that we can serve more passengers and business travelers. Massport has been a strong partner in our continued push to put Worcester Airport on the map and I look forward to continuing this exciting work.” “As the Commonwealth continues to see growth across the state, we at Massport are committed to ensuring that our gateways for the global economy – our airports – work to meet the needs of residents and visitors alike,” said Massport CEO Thomas P. Glynn. “This federal funding would not have been possible without the work of Congressman McGovern and the rest of the Massachusetts delegation and I thank them for this important investment.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion of the Worcester Airport’s recent revitalization and helped to secure $3 million in funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the airport’s Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) station. In September 2015, Congressman McGovern announced $2.7 million in FAA funding support the construction of a partial parallel taxiway to Runway 11-29 in order to reduce the need to back taxi on the runway. That $2.7 million grant provided funding for phase 1 of a 2 phase project. That phase included construction of an approximately 3,500 foot haul road. The project also includes the installation of a new CAT III approach lighting system for Runway 11. This grant provided funding for the reconstruction of Surface Movement Guidance Control System (SMGCS) route taxiways and installation of the lighting system infrastructure which is necessary for the installation of the approach lighting system. ###
10.04.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined state and local leaders for the ribbon cutting on the new Worcester Rail Transit Authority Operation/Maintenance facility on Quinsigamond Avenue. The $90 million project included $39 million in federal funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 for construction and roughly $20 million from the state for environmental remediation of the site, formerly the site of a manufactured gas plant. “Today is a proud day for Worcester and all who have worked so hard to make the new WRTA building a reality. I have proudly supported this project from the beginning and have been thrilled to see the economic development and new jobs it has created,” Congressman McGovern said. “This new state-of-the art center will serve as a vital component of the future of mass transportation in Central Massachusetts. Keeping our region connected is essential to a strong and growing economy and this new WRTA building is key to opening access to all that Worcester has to offer for our local businesses and communities.” Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s ribbon cutting were Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito; Worcester City Manager Ed Augustus; City Councilors Khrystian King and Sarai Rivera; Chairman of the Worcester Regional Transit Authority Advisory Board William Lehtola; Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce President Tim Murray; State Senators Harriette Chandler, Michael Moore, and Anne Gobi; and State Representatives Daniel Donahue, John Mahoney, Jim O’Day, Kate Campanale, Joe McKenna, and David Muradian. The 156,000 square foot facility is about double the size of the current facility on Grove Street, which was built as a trolley barn in 1928. The new facility is large enough to fit 75 transit buses and 30 vans – the current fleet includes 52 buses – and has nine maintenance bays. Buses enter the facility, head to a refueling bay and can be washed, get needed repairs, have fluids checked, and get repainted as needed before re-entering service. ###
09.30.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA) in announcing $1,873,778 in new federal funding for fair housing initiatives in Massachusetts. The funding comes from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and includes $300,000 for Community Legal Aid, Inc. in Worcester. The grant is through the Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) to assist victims of housing discrimination. More information about this federal grant program is available at HUD's website here. "Every family needs a roof over their head and a safe place to call home. Community Legal Aid in Worcester and fair housing organizations across Massachusetts play a vital role in our communities by working to prevent discrimination in housing," Congressman McGovern said. "In 2016, it is unthinkable that anyone would be denied housing because of their race, gender, religion, or national origin. This new federal funding will help so many families by supporting the great work local organizations are doing to protect equal access to housing for everyone in Massachusetts. I am grateful to HUD for this strong investment and look forward to seeing all the good it will do in our communities." "Everyone in this country deserves a fighting chance to build a future, but housing discrimination undermines our communities and makes it harder for families to climb the economic ladder," Senator Warren said. "We have an obligation to combat segregation, and to ensure that a safe and affordable home is in reach for all our families. I'm happy this federal funding will help organizations across the Commonwealth that are doing outstanding work providing assistance to people facing discrimination." "The Fair Housing Initiatives Program is an integral part of the ongoing federal effort to remove the vestiges of discrimination from our housing system. Every citizen in Massachusetts and across the country has the right to live in the home and community they have earned. I am proud that these Massachusetts programs are receiving funding to continue working towards this goal," said Senator Markey. Organizations in Massachusetts receiving awards include: Community Legal Aid, Inc. (Worcester) - $300,000 Fair Housing Center of Greater Boston (Boston) - $300,000 HAP, Inc. (Springfield) - $125,000 Massachusetts Fair Housing Center, Inc. (Holyoke) - $300,000 SouthCoast Fair Housing, Inc. (New Bedford) - $425,000 Suffolk University (Boston) - $423,778 More information about this federal grant program is available at HUD's website here. ###
09.30.2016	Today Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Tom Price, M.D. (R-GA) issued the following statements upon the introduction of their bipartisan bill H.R. 6226, the Pre-Claims Undermine Seniors’ Health (PUSH) Act, to address a new initiative from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) which impacts seniors’ access to home health care. “Home health care helps millions of American seniors live independently and get the care they need while living at home,” Congressman McGovern said. “I’m worried that CMS’s demonstration project will make it more difficult for those in need to get timely home health services. Our bipartisan bill requires a “pause” in the demo to allow CMS to re-evaluate the full impact of this initiative. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this essential bill when Congress returns in November.” “Many seniors and sick patients rely on home health care, which is oftentimes the most clinically appropriate, cost effective setting for treatment,” said Congressman Price, M.D. “CMS’s demonstration project is jeopardizing their safety by delaying or disrupting access to that care. Not only is this new system an entirely inefficient use of Medicare resources, but it will also threaten access to home health services for thousands of seniors. The PUSH Act establishes a one-year moratorium on this harmful demonstration project to protect those who rely on home health care.” BACKGROUND: Today, nearly 3.5 million of our most vulnerable seniors use home health services for care, allowing them to live in the comfort of their own homes. Home health services are also a cost effective way to provide care for patients. Recently, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) initiated an unprecedented demonstration project intended to help combat fraud and abuse. The demo requires home health agencies to submit full patient records on all cases for “pre-claim review,” or face a 25% payment penalty. It takes nearly an hour for a Registered Nurse or other provider to submit the required records, diverting providers from patient care. These reviews have rejected the vast majority of cases, ostensibly for minor paperwork deficiencies. As a result, some existing patients have terminated their care and other prospective patients have encountered delays and obstacles to treatment as home health agencies wait for an “affirmation” in their pre-claim reviews that will permit them to simply file a claim for payment. This demonstration project is creating barriers to quality health care and forcing providers to incur significant unnecessary burdens to support an overly broad demonstration that fails to effectively eliminate fraud. While CMS has recently announced a delay of the expansion of the demo to provide time for an education effort in other states, the agency will resume the demo in future months. CMS must simply provide 30-day’s notice at any given time to initiate the demo in remaining states. If signed into law, the Pre-Claims Undermine Seniors’ Health (PUSH) Act would impose a one-year moratorium on the demo across all states. The PUSH Act also requires CMS to report to Congress on the impact of the demo on patients, home health agencies, physicians, and Medicare spending, while equipping Congress with helpful information to more effectively combat fraud. This will remove barriers to home health care, establish efficiencies in how Medicare handles home health claims, and better determine how to effectively target fraud without disrupting or reducing access to care. Click here to read the legislation. ###
09.29.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the City of Worcester will receive $327,312 from the U.S. Department of Justice to support the Safe and Successful Youth Initiative (SSYI) Project East, part of Worcester’s anti-gang and community policing efforts. The funding is through the FY 16 Comprehensive Anti-Gang Strategies and Programs. “Keeping our community safe starts with strong investments in our local police. This new funding will help to support the incredible work that Chief Sargent and the Worcester Police Department are doing every day to keep us safe,” Congressman McGovern said. “With this grant, Worcester Police will be able to continue their work to reduce gang violence and prevent gang initiation among high-risk youth in Worcester’s Eastside neighborhoods. I am grateful to the Justice Department for providing this essential support and to all of our brave men and women in blue who keep us safe every day.” "Public safety is always our top priority, and we know that crime prevention is always better than enforcement. These grant funds will help the Worcester Police Department continue its efforts to reach young people before they become the perpetrators or victims of violence," said City Manager Edward Augustus, Jr. "This generous grant from the Department of Justice will allow us to bolster our efforts to reduce gang violence," said Police Chief Steven M. Sargent. "I want to thank Congressman Jim McGovern for his advocacy for these funds that will be used, in part, to work with high-risk youth and provide them with healthy alternatives to gang activities." A growing number of communities have adopted OJJDP’s Comprehensive Gang Model, a multi-strategy, multidisciplinary approach that has proven to be effective in reducing gang activity. The fiscal year 2016 Comprehensive Anti-Gang Strategies and Programs solicitation provides funding for localities to enhance coordination of federal, state, and local resources in support of community partnerships implementing the following Anti-Gang programs: primary prevention, secondary prevention, gang intervention, and targeted gang enforcement. The goal of Safe and Successful Youth Initiative (SSYI) Project East is to reduce gang violence and prevent gang initiation among high-risk youth ages 12 to 17 in Worcester’s Eastside neighborhoods. SSYI Project East addresses a major geographical, age, and programmatic gap identified in Worcester’s Youth Violence Prevention Initiative, which was the result of a comprehensive community gang assessment and citywide strategic planning process. SSYI Project East will bolster Worcester’s Comprehensive Gang Model to direct outreach work and case management to up to 50 high-risk youth who live in the Eastside neighborhoods and are on the Worcester Public Schools Gang Protocol List. This project will complement the identification, outreach, and case management services through a targeted deterrence and pulling levers model. The Worcester Police Department is the lead agency and has more than a decade of experience administering grants and coordinating cross-sector partnerships to implement the Comprehensive Gang Model in Worcester. Friendly House will be the lead street outreach and case management agency. Specialist partners include the Worcester Public Schools, Worcester Community Action Council for high-tier employment expertise and Clark University as the research partner. Clark University will track all required performance measures using a web-based, secure Sales force database. Data will be collected from outreach workers, case managers, and school personnel, as well as school and police records. ###
09.29.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced a five year, $583,000 University Center program grant for MassDiGI at Becker College has been awarded by the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), a bureau within the U.S. Department of Commerce. The new federal funding will support MassDiGI’s ongoing efforts to promote entrepreneurship, academic cooperation and economic development across the state’s video and digital games ecosystem. This is the second such grant for MassDiGI from the competitive University Center program. The first was awarded in September 2011. “The work MassDiGI does in leveraging our state’s strengths in higher education, technology, innovation and creativity continues to stand out,” Congressman McGovern said. “This EDA grant will give MassDiGI the chance to level up their ability to have an even greater impact. I've seen their work firsthand and I’m excited for what the next five years will bring.” Established in April 2011, MassDiGI is the result of creative collaboration among academia, industry, and government, aimed at nurturing the growth of the game industry cluster in the region. “As chair of the MassDiGI Advisory Board, I am extremely pleased that we have been selected again by the EDA for funding,” said Becker College President Robert E. Johnson, Ph.D. “MassDiGI is one-of-a-kind and delivers tremendous value to the many students, faculty, startups and industry professionals it reaches each year, be they on campus, here in Worcester or throughout the Commonwealth – and increasingly, across the country and around the world.” “Worcester is proud to be the home of MassDiGI at Becker College,” said Worcester City Manager Edward M. Augustus, Jr. “Our city’s future is brighter because of the work they do in helping to foster the growth of our local game development community.” MassDiGI offers a number of programs and activities which nurture collaboration among students, faculty and the public, private, and non-profit sectors. Best known among its offerings is the Summer Innovation Program (SIP). During this Worcester-based internship program students take a game from concept to market in 12 weeks. More than 700 students from dozens of institutions around the world have applied since SIP began in 2012. Of those applicants over 100 students have participated from schools such as MIT, Tufts, Carnegie Mellon, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, University of Southern California, Rhode Island School of Design, Northeastern University, Letterkenny Institute of Technology in Ireland, Smith College, Berklee School of Music, New York University, and Becker College. SIP alumni have gone on to work at a range of companies including Harmonix, Microsoft, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, Amazon, Warner Bros., 2K, Disruptor Beam, Uber, Nickelodeon, Sony, Facebook, and Hasbro or startup their own studios such as Zephyr Workshop, Starcap Games, and Petricore Games. Among MassDiGI’s other programs are its Game Challenge pitch competition for aspiring game developers held every year in Cambridge, Mass., Live Studio cross-registration courses at Becker and Mentoring on Demand advisory services for entrepreneurs and non-profits. “The EDA University Center program has been a key to many of the successes of our first five years,” said MassDiGI Executive Director Timothy Loew. “And, this grant will allow us, over the next five, to build on those successes, deepen our capacity, and scale up our efforts over all our programs and activities.” “In my work with game industry communities across the globe, MassDiGI shines as a leader for its support of game companies,” said California-based M2 Advisory Group CEO Wanda Meloni. “This funding is a testament to MassDiGI’s outstanding work and the acknowledgement of what can happen when you have the right combination of leadership, collaboration from academia, and support from the local community and businesses.” Meloni is also the editor in chief of Gaming Business Review and executive director of the Open Gaming Alliance. With its experienced staff and a cadre of veteran game development mentors, MassDiGI works to help strengthen the area’s games sector, advising on everything from strategy and marketing, to financing and hiring. “Starting up a game studio as a novice entrepreneur right out of college is a risky proposition. There’s no question we wouldn’t be where we are today without the continuing advice and guidance we get from MassDiGI,” said Petricore Games Co-founder and CEO Ryan Canuel. Canuel is also the 2016 Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce Entrepreneur of the Year and a Becker College ’15 and MassDiGI SIP ’14 alumnus. ###
09.26.2016	CARTAGENA, COLOMBIA – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress for human rights, joined U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and other U.S. leaders for the signing of a peace agreement between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) to end an armed conflict that began in 1964. Congressman McGovern released the following statement on the signing: “Today I am proud to join Secretary Kerry for this historic step forward for peace in Colombia and I am grateful to President Santos for his invitation. This groundbreaking agreement is the culmination of years of hard work and would not have been possible without the strong commitment of the Colombian government and FARC guerillas as they worked to achieve a lasting solution. Following more than 50 years of conflict, peace is no longer a fantasy. At the heart of this process and essential to its success has been the Colombian people themselves who never stopped believing that peace was possible. “For the past 15 years, I have strongly supported efforts to advance peace and human rights in Colombia. I have met with hundreds of victims of the conflict and have been touched by each of their stories. The voices of the victims must be central to carrying out these peace accords, and promoting reconciliation, truth and justice. “The Colombia peace agreement took four years to negotiate and now the hard work of implementation begins. While this marks a major step forward, I am concerned about the escalation of murders and attacks against human rights defenders and community leaders. These are the leaders Colombia needs now to build peace and reconciliation. The Colombian government must ensure their protection and stand alongside their important work. The Colombian people have the opportunity to vote for peace on Sunday, October 2nd, in the national plebiscite and I urge the Colombian government to ensure that every voice is heard. “As a proud partner for peace, the United States must work with the international community to do all it can to support the successful implantation of this historic agreement. After more than 50 years of war in Colombia, we must stand with the Colombian people now to help them achieve a just and lasting peace and the bright future they deserve.” Congressman McGovern has long been a leading voice in Congress supporting the push for peace and human rights in Colombia. In December 2015, Congressman McGovern co-sponsored a bipartisan resolution backing the Colombian peace process and in February 2016, Congressman McGovern joined nearly 60 House lawmakers in urging President Obama to do all he could to support the ongoing negotiations in Colombia as both parties worked toward a peace agreement. In addition to Congressman McGovern and Secretary Kerry, the peace signing was attended by Senator Ben Cardin, Representative Sam Farr, Under Secretary For Political Affairs Tom Shannon, Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs William Brownfield, Assistant Secretary Bureau of Legislative Affairs Julia Frifield, Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs and Spokesperson John Kirby, Acting Assistant Secretary For Western Hemisphere Affairs Mari Carmen Aponte, Deputy Chief of Staff Tom Sullivan, Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Vice Admiral Frank Pandolfe, and NSC Senior Director for Western Hemisphere Affairs Director Mark Feierstein. ###
09.23.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, held a hearing on Syria’s humanitarian crisis and additional steps the U.S. can take to address it and increase civilian protection. Click here for video of today’s hearing. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in the need for the U.S. to strengthen its response to the crisis and take new steps to minimize innocent civilian casualties and increase aid to the families affected. In July 2015, Congressman McGovern traveled to the region with Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) and other members of a Congressional delegation to meet with government officials and aid organizations. “America must be a leader on human rights at home and abroad. I am grateful to Secretary Kerry and the State Department for their tireless work to achieve a ceasefire and urge them to continue these essential efforts. Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have been killed and millions have been internally displaced or have become refugees,” Congressman McGovern said. “The Syrian government must be held accountable for its continued targeting of civilians. When there is no accountability for human rights abuses and civilian casualties, conflicts and unrest like this only worsen. The World Food Programme and other aid organizations are at the border, ready to deliver food and humanitarian supplies. We must stop the bombing to ensure that humanitarian assistance gets to the Syrian people who so desperately need it. “Congress should be talking about and debating these issues. We have strong Syrian communities in Worcester, Massachusetts, and cities across the country who are ready to welcome refugees and help provide these families with a safe haven and fresh start. When we hear about the Syrian conflict, too often it’s only discussed in terms of the U.S. and Russia,” McGovern added. “Ultimately, there must be a political solution – one which allows the Syrian people to determine their own future and respects the rights of all the Syrian people.” CAPTION: In July, 2015, Congressman Jim McGovern (second from left) with Senator Tim Kaine and other U.S. lawmakers in Erbil, Iraq during a Congressional delegation visit to the region. Click here for video of today’s hearing. BACKGROUND According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an estimated 430,000 people have been killed in the Syrian civil war between March 2011 and August 2016, of whom 86,692 were civilians. The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) calculates that 4.8 million Syrians have been forced to leave the country, and 6.5 million are internally displaced – half of the country’s total population of 22 million. In 2016, 13.5 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, among them 6 million children and 5.47 million who are in hard-to-reach areas, including close to 600,000 people in 18 besieged areas. This humanitarian crisis, the largest the world has seen since World War II, cannot be characterized as mere “collateral damage” of the civil war. Rather, the war’s belligerents, particularly the government of Bashar al-Assad and the Islamic State, deliberately target civilians and actively oppose humanitarian efforts aimed to mitigate the crisis. Furthermore, the Syrian regime has prosecuted the war with complete disregard for international humanitarian law, as evidenced by the use of chemical weapons and barrel bombs, the besieging of civilian populations, the systematic targeting of medical facilities and personnel, and the blocking of humanitarian assistance. The most recent partial ceasefire is at risk after the aerial bombardment of an authorized aid convoy. A negotiated end to the conflict does not appear to be in reach in the foreseeable future. In this context, the hearing will examine what is being done and what more could be done to protect civilians in Syria. Witnesses from organizations operating on the ground in Syria will discuss their efforts to assist civilian populations inside the country, what they have achieved, the obstacles they face and their recommendations. Witnesses from organizations that specialize in protection and accountability will discuss measures to reduce the vulnerability of civilians as the war continues and to create the conditions for accountability for war crimes in an eventual post-war context. WITNESSES AT TODAY’S HEARING: Panel I Dr. Ahmad Tarakji, President, Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS) Joel Charny, Director, Norwegian Refugee Council USA Richard A. Leach, President and CEO, World Food Program USA Panel II Sarah Holewinski, Senior fellow, Center for a New American Security, and Board of Advisors, Center for Civilians in Conflict (CIVIC) Naomi Kikoler, Deputy Director, Simon-Skjodt Center for the Prevention of Genocide, U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum Chris Engels, Deputy Director for Investigations and Operations, Commission for International Justice and Accountability (CIJA) ###
09.22.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House Floor about the important role that food banks in Massachusetts, like Worcester County Food Bank and the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, and food banks across the country play in helping families and communities struggling with hunger. Congressman McGovern spoke about volunteering this past summer at Philabundance, a Philadelphia-area food bank, as well as the importance of supporting local food banks and strengthening federal anti-hunger programs as part of a comprehensive strategy to end hunger. Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. “Food banks across our country, like Philabundance, and the Worcester County Food Bank and Food Bank of Western Massachusetts – both located in my Congressional district – do incredible work to reduce hunger in surrounding communities. They employ innovative strategies to fight hunger and increase access to nutritious food for our most vulnerable neighbors. “The truth of the matter is, we know that food banks and other charitable organizations can’t do it alone. Some in Congress have proposed cuts and other restrictions to our federal anti-hunger and nutrition programs, we often hear from them that charities – not the government – should be responsible for eradicating hunger. “I agree that food banks and food pantries, and other charitable organizations are incredible on-the-ground partners in our efforts to end hunger. They are often the first line of defense in emergency situations. “Our charities are doing an incredible job on the front lines, but ending hunger will take a strong partnership between these organizations and federal, state, and local governments. We know that strong federal investments in these critical safety net programs reduce hunger, improve the diets of low-income households, and save billions of dollars in health care costs. “So the next time my colleagues look to score political points by demonizing our federal anti-hunger programs, I ask you to think about these programs and the impact they are having on constituents in each of our districts.” Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “I recently had the opportunity to visit and volunteer at the Philadelphia region’s largest hunger relief center – Philabundance. “Philabundance, a member of the Feeding America network of food banks, aims to drive hunger out of local communities with an eye toward eradicating hunger altogether. “Each week, Philabundance serves 90,000 people in the Philadelphia area through partnership with 350 agencies and food distribution programs. “Incredibly, last year alone, they distributed almost 30 million pounds of food to neighbors suffering from hunger and food insecurity in nine counties. “I was impressed by the innovative strategies Philabundance employs to feed hungry people in its region. The Philabundance Community Kitchen equips those looking to re-enter the workforce with valuable life and kitchen skills while also providing meals to those in need. “Philabundance also opened the nation’s first nonprofit grocery store – called Fare & Square – in Chester, a city that faced a serious economic downturn due to the loss of manufacturing jobs. Fare & Square provides affordable and healthy food to the community, as well as discounts to those who qualify. “Food banks across our country, like Philabundance, and the Worcester County Food Bank and Food Bank of Western Massachusetts – both located in my Congressional district – do incredible work to reduce hunger in surrounding communities. “They employ innovative strategies to fight hunger and increase access to nutritious food for our most vulnerable neighbors. “The truth of the matter is, we know that food banks and other charitable organizations can’t do it alone. “Some in Congress have proposed cuts and other restrictions to our federal anti-hunger and nutrition programs, we often hear from them that charities – not the government – should be responsible for eradicating hunger. “I agree that food banks and food pantries, and other charitable organizations are incredible on-the-ground partners in our efforts to end hunger. They are often the first line of defense in emergency situations. “But charities cannot do everything. Such are the facts. Charities do face limitations. Many are small and only open on limited schedules. Most are run with the support of dedicated volunteers, some of whom have other full time jobs. “Often, these charities operate out of small spaces like basements or closets at houses of worship. And importantly, they rely on donations from members of the community as a primary source of food to distribute. “Our charities are doing an incredible job on the front lines, but ending hunger will take a strong partnership between these organizations and federal, state, and local governments. “For our part, the federal government must continue to invest in our preeminent food and nutrition programs like SNAP, WIC, and The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP), just to name a few, and fight attempts to cut or weaken them. TEFAP is especially important to our food banks, as they rely on this federal funding to serve those in need. “We know that strong federal investments in these critical safety net programs reduce hunger, improve the diets of low-income households, and save billions of dollars in health care costs. “So the next time my colleagues look to score political points by demonizing our federal anti-hunger programs, I ask you to think about these programs and the impact they are having on constituents in each of our districts. “I urge you to visit your local food banks and charities, and see all of the incredible work they are doing to reduce hunger in our communities. Ask these organizations how the federal anti-poverty programs support their efforts to bring food to those most in need. “And I urge all my colleagues to remember this fact: Today in the United States of America, the richest country in the world, over 42 million of our fellow citizens are hungry. They are kids. They are senior citizens. They are people who can’t find work and they are many, many people who are, in fact, working. They defy stereotypes. All of them are our brothers and sisters and we should care. And we should absolutely do more than we are doing right now to end hunger in America. “The federal government, working with charities and local partners, has within our grasp the power to end hunger now. What we lack is the political will. Let’s at long last create the political will and guarantee that in our country, no one ever has to struggle with food insecurity or hunger. We can end hunger now.” ###
09.19.2016	LEXINGTON, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined state and business leaders for the ribbon cutting at the grand reopening of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Lab in Lexington. Congressman McGovern is Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Cystic Fibrosis Caucus and has been a strong voice for increasing investment in research and treatment to help families with impacted by cystic fibrosis. “As we work to increase awareness about this rare disease, we are helping to increase the support and resources needed to help families across the country who are impacted by cystic fibrosis,” Congressman McGovern said. “The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Lab is a strong example of how Massachusetts is taking the lead in groundbreaking research that will move us closer to a cure. Working together with university researchers and industry partners, this lab is helping us to make new advances in drug discovery and continue the swift development of potential new therapies for people with cystic fibrosis. As co-chair of the Congressional Cystic Fibrosis Caucus, I am proud to support this important work and thank all who are leading the effort to help families with cystic fibrosis.” Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s grand reopening and tour of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Lab were U.S. Senator Ed Markey (D-MA), State Senator Michael Barrett (D-Lexington) and State Representative Jay R. Kaufman (D-Lexington). Cystic Fibrosis Foundation personnel in attendance at the lab opening included several members of the National Board of Trustees; President and CEO Preston W. Campbell III; Mary Dwight, Senior Vice President for Policy and Patient Assistance Programs; and Bill Skach, Senior Vice President for Research Affairs, as well as Ellen Schwanke, cystic fibrosis advocate from Massachusetts and Pam Spitzer, the Executive Director of the CFF Massachusetts Chapter. NUMBERS According to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Patient Registry, in the United States: More than 30,000 people are living with cystic fibrosis (more than 70,000 worldwide). Approximately 1,000 new cases of CF are diagnosed each year. More than 75 percent of people with CF are diagnosed by age 2. More than half of the CF population is age 18 or older. BACKGROUND The CFFT Lab identifies and tests promising drug discovery strategies to help find potential cystic fibrosis therapies that could move forward into clinical trials -- and ultimately into the hands of people living with CF. Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Inc. (CFFT), the Foundation's nonprofit drug discovery and development affiliate, operates its own research laboratory in Lexington, Mass. The laboratory's team of scientists and technicians works closely with other researchers to identify and explore innovative approaches to help speed discovery of potential therapies that could move forward into clinical research. Established in 2012, the laboratory's primary focus is on finding new tools to discover compounds that address the underlying cause of cystic fibrosis -- a malfunctioning CFTR protein caused by mutations in the CF gene. Click here for more information. ###
09.16.2016	WARE, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded the Ware Fire Department $96,572 through an Operations and Safety Grant. The new federal funding will support the purchase of essential protective equipment for Ware firefighters. “Keeping our community safe starts with strong investments in our first responders,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to FEMA for this essential funding and to the Ware firefighters and their families for the sacrifices they make to help keep all of us safe. The $96,572 in funding will help the Ware Fire Department to buy the protective equipment they need as they continue to serve our community. I was proud to join Senator Gobi and Town Manager Beckley to thank Chief Coulombe for his leadership and all that our firefighters do every day to protect our families.” CAPTION: Joining Congressman McGovern today in celebrating the federal funding for Ware firefighters were Ware Fire Chief Thomas Coulombe, State Senator Anne Gobi, Ware Town Manager Stuart Beckley, Ware Firefighters, and Ware Fire Department staff. ###
09.16.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced a $50,000 award from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) to Massachusetts Biomedical Initiatives (MBI) in Worcester. The federal funding is part of $3.4 million awarded nationwide to support small business startups and MBI is one of 68 small businesses across the country to receive the award. The award is through the SBA’s third annual Growth Accelerator Fund Competition and is aimed at helping small businesses like MBI grow. Click here for more information. “Small businesses are the heart and soul of our economy and we need to do all we can to help them grow and succeed. I am grateful to the SBA for this smart investment in our community and know that it will help to give entrepreneurs in Worcester and across Central Massachusetts the resources and support they need,” Congressman McGovern said. Congressman McGovern was joined today by leaders from MBI and the local business community. Massachusetts Biomedical Initiatives is a life and health science incubator with four locations in the City of Worcester. MBI is currently home to 25 startup life and health science companies working on an array of healthcare related causes including cancer, diabetes, and genetic disorders. The purpose of the competition was to draw attention and funding to parts of the country where there are gaps in the entrepreneurial ecosystem. While there are entrepreneurial activities occurring nationwide, some are better supported by private sector ecosystems than others. SBA has created connective tissue among the over 200 winning entrepreneurial ecosystems now part of the Growth Accelerator Fund Competition program. Applications were judged by more than 100 experts with entrepreneurial, investment, startup, economic development, capital formation and academic backgrounds from both the public and private sector. The first panel of judges reviewed over 400 applications and presentations and established a pool of 200 highly qualified finalists. The second panels evaluated the finalists’ presentations and pitch videos and selected the 68 winners. ###
09.15.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) spoke on the House Floor to address teen hunger as part of his continued push to raise awareness during Hunger Action Month. Congressman McGovern praised two new reports released by the Urban Institute which highlight the millions of teenagers who face hunger and the challenges that they and their families confront every day. Click here for video of today’s speech. The research in the Urban Institute reports shows that the food budget is one of the first things pared down when times get tough for a family. Under such conditions, these households can become food insecure—that is, they struggle to acquire enough affordable, nutritious food to healthily feed the whole family. Using Current Population Survey data, food insecurity expert Craig Gundersen recently estimated that 6.8 million young people ages 10 to 17 struggle to have enough to eat, including 2.9 million who have very low food security. The ramifications of food insecurity are innumerable, but looking specifically at teenagers, the report notes that teenagers are at a critical stage of their development and that food insecurity undermines their physical and emotional growth, stamina, academic achievement, and job performance. Click here to read more about the reports. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech on Teen Hunger: “As we recognize September as “Hunger Action Month,” I rise to speak about the widespread problem of hunger among teenagers. “While our nation’s recovery is progressing, seven million teens remain food insecure, and we know they often face additional hardships. “Today, the Urban Institute is briefing Members of Congress and their staff on two new reports that highlight these circumstances and explore how teens cope with hunger. “Among a number of troubling conclusions, the report finds that teens fear the stigma of being hungry and often refuse to accept food or assistance. They skip meals and sometimes turn to dangerous behaviors just so their parents or siblings can eat. They often feel the need to bear the responsibility for feeding their families. “Teenagers deserve to have a normal childhood. They should be focused on school and developing their passions – not worrying about where their next meal is coming from. “I encourage all of my colleagues to read these reports and join me in working to end hunger now.” ###
09.14.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) managed today’s floor debate for House Democrats and led more than three dozen House Democrats who came to the House Floor to call on House Republicans to end their inaction on gun violence and finally allow the House to debate and vote on bipartisan gun reform legislation. Click Here for Video of Speech. Congressman McGovern and House Democrats called for House Republicans to allow a debate and vote on H.R. 1217, the bipartisan King-Thompson Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act, a bill that expands the existing background check system to cover all commercial firearm sales, including those at gun shows, over the internet or in classified ads or H.R. 1076, the bipartisan “No Fly, No Buy” legislation authored by Republican Congressman Peter King, which would give the Attorney General the discretion to prevent suspected terrorists from buying guns or explosives – keeping deadly weapons out of the hands of would-be terrorists. Below is an Excerpt of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “In June, when 49 innocent people were ruthlessly killed in an LGBT nightclub in Orlando, Americans across the country were heartbroken and looked to their leaders for action. Surely in the face of such tragedy, House Republicans would put partisan politics aside. Surely both parties could come together to pass bipartisan legislation to reduce gun violence by keeping guns out of the wrong hands. “House Democrats held a 25-hour sit-in on the House floor, raising the voices of millions of Americans who are sick and tired of seeing their families and neighbors gunned down in communities all across the country while Congress does absolutely nothing. “Instead, Speaker Ryan and House Republicans abruptly shut Congress down for summer recess – the longest in the modern era. While House Republicans were on summer vacation, more than 2,300 Americans were killed by guns. “Now Congress is back and instead of doing the right thing and finally bringing bipartisan gun reform legislation to the floor, we hear through the press that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans are looking at ways to punish Democrats for our sit-in demanding action to reduce gun violence. Really? Congress is only scheduled to be in session for two weeks until we recess again and this is one of the Republican priorities? “We need real leadership, not more finger wagging. I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to ask themselves is this really what your constituents want. Is this what they sent you to Congress to do? “All we get from them is nothing. All we get from them is silence and indifference and apathy. It is sad and it is pathetic. Following Congressman McGovern’s opening remarks, 39 House Democrats came to the House Floor, each asking that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow the House to finally debate and vote on H.R. 1217. Each request was denied. This bill is the House companion to the bipartisan agreement on background checks struck by Senators Joe Manchin (D-WV) and Pat Toomey (R-PA). Click Here for Video of Speech. Text of Today’s Speech Below: “In June, when 49 innocent people were ruthlessly killed in an LGBT nightclub in Orlando, Americans across the country were heartbroken and looked to their leaders for action. Surely in the face of such tragedy, House Republicans would put partisan politics aside. Surely both parties could come together to pass bipartisan legislation to reduce gun violence by keeping guns out of the wrong hands. “House Democrats tried repeatedly to bring up bipartisan gun reform legislation that the overwhelming majority of the American people would support. The bills would expand background checks and stop anyone on the FBI’s terrorist watch list from buying a gun. What could be more common sense than that? “All we wanted was to debate the legislation and have a fair up-or-down vote. But Republicans continued to put up roadblocks and refused to even let us consider these bills. So House Democrats held a 25-hour sit-in on the House floor, raising the voices of millions of Americans who are sick and tired of seeing their families and neighbors gunned down in communities all across the country while Congress does absolutely nothing. “Instead, Speaker Ryan and House Republicans abruptly shut Congress down for summer recess – the longest in the modern era. While House Republicans were on summer vacation, more than 2,300 Americans were killed by guns. “Now Congress is back and instead of doing the right thing and finally bringing bipartisan gun reform legislation to the floor, we hear through the press that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans are looking at ways to punish Democrats for our sit-in demanding action to reduce gun violence. Really? Congress is only scheduled to be in session for two weeks until we recess again and this is one of the Republican priorities? “We need real leadership, not more finger wagging. I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to ask themselves is this really what your constituents want. Is this what they sent you to Congress to do? “And let me be clear, if Republicans think that we will be intimidated or silenced by any legislation that they bring to the floor to slap us on the wrist simply for asking Congress to do its job, they are wrong. “The fact that Republicans are appalled by our demand to debate, and the fact that they are appalled by our demand that there be a debate and vote on gun safety legislation, I find outrageous. My question is, why are my Republican friends not appalled by the massacres in Orlando and San Bernardino and Aurora and Newtown and Charleston? I could go on and on. Why are they not appalled by the gun deaths that happen each and every day in these United States of America? “All we get from them is nothing. All we get from them is silence and indifference and apathy. Oh, and legislation to condemn Democrats for wanting to do something. It is sad and it is pathetic. “I’m going to ask my colleagues to defeat the previous question. And if we defeat the previous question, I will bring up an amendment to the rule to bring up the bipartisan No Fly, No Buy legislation that would allow the Attorney General to bar the sale of firearms and explosives to those on the FBI’s terrorist watch list. “The time to act is now. There were more than 2,000 gun-related deaths this summer alone while we were on recess. This country cannot tolerate Republican intransigence any longer. We’re asking and we’re responding that the Republican leadership in this House do its job.” ###
09.13.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), along with Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey and Representative Niki Tsongas (MA-03), announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $2,376,682 grant for track improvements along the Providence and Worcester Railroad Company's Gardner Branch rail line in Central Massachusetts. The rail project will reduce the risk of derailments that could impact the drinking water supplied to the City of Worcester. “A strong and growing Central Massachusetts economy starts with smart investments in transit and infrastructure. The Providence and Worcester Railroad has helped to keep our region's businesses connected for decades and this funding will provide a critical update to the Gardner Branch rail line,” Congressman McGovern said. “This grant will help to keep our families safe and commerce flowing as our economy continues to grow. I am grateful to the Department of Transportation for this support and look forward to this railroad continuing to keep our region connected and growing for years to come. ” “This federal funding will support key improvements to our rail infrastructure in Central Massachusetts, benefiting our economy and improving the safety of communities along the rail line,” said Senator Warren. “Transportation projects like this one are good for the Commonwealth's businesses and families, and that's why I'm glad to work with the other members of the congressional delegation to help secure critical federal infrastructure grants for Massachusetts. ” “When we rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, we strengthen our transportation system, our economy and our health. This grant will finance critical updates to the Gardner Branch rail line in Central Massachusetts that will improve safety, help protect drinking water supplies, while also supporting job creation in construction and engineering,” said Senator Markey. “With this rail line passing through many communities in central Massachusetts, enhancing overall safety is always an important endeavor. This federal funding, which aims at improving track conditions and bolstering track safety, is a win for the whole region. It is an example of strong partnerships at all levels of government, and I congratulate the stakeholders who helped make this project possible and look forward to working with them,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “I am extremely grateful the Federal Railroad Administration has selected Providence and Worcester Railroad Company to receive $2.37 million in federal grant funding to rehabilitate approximately 12 miles of track along the Company's Gardner Branch located in central Massachusetts. This project will install new continuous welded rail and ties and enhance our ability to continue providing safe and efficient rail service to our customers, shippers, and the communities we serve,” said P. Scott Conti, President and Chief Operating Officer, P&W Railroad. More information about the grant is available here. ###
09.09.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward Markey announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded $173,131 to the Worcester Fire Department through the Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S) programs. FP&S grants are awarded to support projects that enhance the safety of the public and of firefighters. The federal funding will support Worcester Fire Department’s safe cooking fire prevention program. "Our community in Worcester is safer thanks to Chief Gardell and our local firefighters. The Safe Cooking Program is a great community partnership that helps the Worcester Fire Department educate local residents about fire safety in the kitchen," Congressman Jim McGovern said. I am grateful to FEMA for providing this funding that will help to continue this important program and keep Worcester seniors and other local residents safe at home." "Massachusetts firefighters put their lives on the line to keep our families safe, and they deserve our thanks and our support," Senator Elizabeth Warren said. "I'm very glad that these federal grants will help ensure that our fire departments have the staff and resources they need to serve our communities safely and effectively." "Massachusetts firefighters are committed to ensuring the safety and security of their communities and these new grants will enhance their ability to do so. Our first responders are our hometown heroes, but heroes need help too. These important federal grants will help us recruit and hire more firefighters and ensure they can efficiently and effectively protect the citizens of our cities and towns," said Senator Edward J. Markey. Worcester Safe Cooking Program The $173,131 FEMA grant will support the Worcester Fire Department’s partnership with the Worcester Housing Authority (WHA) to implement a Cooking Fire Education & Prevention Campaign targeted to four WHA towers with 759 units housing 862 elderly residents, of whom 86 percent are disabled. The fund will help the Worcester Fire Department (WFD) purchase 759 fire-safe electric stove burners. WFD Fire Educators will offer train-the-trainer sessions and post-training oversight to WHA installers to enable them to teach residents on the new burners, safe cooking methods, and fire and fall prevention based on NFPA's Remembering When curriculum. Trained WHA staff will assess units for mobility, housekeeping and unsafe practices. WFD Educators will make related group presentations to residents. Goals are (1) to educate residents on cooking and other fire risks and (2) to prevent stovetop fires via adoption of safe burners. Objectives are to train WHA installers, produce outreach materials, educate residents, purchase burners, and install burners. More information about FEMA's fire grant programs is available here. ###
09.09.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) expressed his appreciation to the Massachusetts residents who completed a summer internship in his Washington, D.C. district office. “Each summer we are proud to welcome young people from across the district to serve in our offices in Massachusetts and Washington, D.C.,” Congressman McGovern said. “These internships are an opportunity to serve our community and gain the valuable skills and experiences that will prepare them for rewarding careers and bright futures. It has been exciting to watch each of them learn and grow and I know big things are ahead for this next generation of leaders.” Summer 2016 interns in Congressman McGovern’s offices come from across the district, including Auburn, Millbury, North Grafton, Northborough, Orange, Shrewsbury, West Boylston, Westborough, and Worcester. Photos and information about each summer intern are below. Click the following links to read about summer interns who worked in the Worcester, Leominster, and Northampton offices. Lauren Bolduc is from Auburn, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is junior studying Political Science and Journalism at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst in Amherst. Colin Boyle is from Leicester, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a junior studying Political Science at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont. Kasrah Eslami is from Holden, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a sophomore studying Political Science and Environmental Studies at Boston University in Boston. Melissa Edberg is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a recent graduate with a degree in Communications and Public Relations from Worcester State University in Worcester. Lauren Tuiskula is from Leicester, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a senior studying English at Amherst College in Amherst. Grace Tricomi is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a senior studying Political Science and Middle Eastern Studies at The College of the Holy Cross in Worcester. Sean Mathews is from the Washington, D.C. area, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a senior studying Business Management at East Carolina University in Greenville, North Carolina. Scarlett Glackin is from the Washington, D.C. area, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a junior studying Ancient Studies and Romance Languages at Mounty Holyoke College in South Hadley. Maclaine Lehan is from Shrewsbury, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a junior studying Political Science at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island Jared Hayes is from Hadley, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a recent graduate with a degree in International Studies from Manhattan College in New York, New York. Ellen Ward is from the Washington, D.C. area, served as an intern in the Washington, D.C. office, and is a student at Bishop Denis J. O’Connel High School in Arlington, Virginia. ###
09.08.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) delivered a speech on the House Floor in honor of Hunger Action Month to praise Starbucks for its FoodShare program, a new initiative to donate unused food to help reduce food waste and work with local food banks to reduce hunger in communities across the country. At a local Starbucks on Capitol Hill, Congressman McGovern joined Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), his fellow co-chair of the bipartisan House Hunger Caucus, to learn more about the program and how it will contribute to the national effort to help the 47 million Americans who struggle with hunger every year. Click Here for Video of Today’s Speech. Click Here to Learn More About the Starbucks FoodShare Program. Full Text of Today’s Speech is Below: “To kick off Hunger Action Month, today I joined Representative Lynn Jenkins of Kansas on a tour of the Starbucks on Capitol Hill to learn about an innovative partnership between Feeding America and Starbucks to donate unused food. “At the end of each day, Starbucks will package surplus ready-to-eat food that gets picked up overnight and delivered to local food banks. “I was impressed by the selection of nutritious food. We often think of Starbucks as a place to stop for a coffee, but we saw a number of healthy options like salads, sandwiches, and more. “Starbucks will expand the project to all its stores in the next few years. They expect to donate 50 million meals annually, diverting 60 million pounds of surplus food away from landfills and to hungry families in need. “More than 47 million Americans suffer from hunger and food insecurity. In the richest country in the world, we must do all we can to ensure that no family goes hungry and donating unused food is a key step. “Starbucks deserves much credit for being a leader in the effort to end hunger.” ###
09.07.2016	NORTHAMPTON, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) expressed his appreciation to the students from Western Massachusetts who completed an internship in his Northampton office this summer. “Each summer we are proud to welcome young people from across the district to serve in our offices in Central and Western Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “These internships are an opportunity to serve our community and gain the valuable skills and experiences that will prepare them for rewarding careers and bright futures. It has been exciting to watch each of them learn and grow and I know big things are ahead for this next generation of leaders.” Summer 2016 interns in Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts offices come from across the district, including Auburn, Millbury, North Grafton, Northborough, Orange, Shrewsbury, West Boylston, Westborough, and Worcester. Information about each summer intern is below. Juliet Bernini is from Northampton, served as an intern in the Northampton office and is a sophomore studying Public Relations and Marketing Communication at Simmons College in Boston. Ian Kaye is from Amherst, served as an intern in the Northampton office and is a senior studying at Amherst Regional High School in Amherst. Katherine Lesko is from Northampton, served as an intern in the Northampton office and is a senior studying Global Studies at Loyola University in Baltimore. Leif Maynard is from Northampton, served as an intern in the Northampton office and is a sophomore studying at Amherst Regional High School in Amherst. ###
09.07.2016	LEOMINSTER, MA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) expressed his appreciation to the students from Central Massachusetts who completed an internship in his Leominster office this summer. “Each summer we are proud to welcome young people from across the district to serve in our offices in Central and Western Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “These internships are an opportunity to serve our community and gain the valuable skills and experiences that will prepare them for rewarding careers and bright futures. It has been exciting to watch each of them learn and grow and I know big things are ahead for this next generation of leaders.” Summer 2016 interns in Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts offices come from across the district, including Auburn, Millbury, North Grafton, Northborough, Orange, Shrewsbury, West Boylston, Westborough, and Worcester. Casey Voyer is from Leominster, served as an intern in the Leominster office, and is a senior at Lunenburg High School. John Wick is from Sutton, served as an intern in the Leominster office, and after graduating from St. John’s High School in Shrewsbury, is now a senior in the United States Military Academy where he is preparing to commission as a 2nd Lieutenant in the United States Army next year. Yunjung Seo is from Orange, served as an intern in the Leominster office, is a senior at Ralph C. Mahar High School in Orange. ###
09.07.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led debate for Democrats on the House Floor on the rule for H.R. 5063, the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act. Congressman McGovern called out House Republicans for bringing up yet another bill to provide a corporate giveaway while continuing their inaction on public health crises like the spread of the Zika virus, the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, the opioid crisis, and the ongoing epidemic of gun violence. Excerpts of today’s speech are below. Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech. House GOP Puts Corporate Giveaway Ahead of Public Health Crises On the House Floor, Congressman McGovern said the bill being debated today “eliminates public interest protections, creates needless litigation and delay, and imposes draconian penalties on federal officials. It is a misinformed response to a nonexistent problem, and just one more corporate giveaway by this Republican Congress.” “While spending time on efforts that are nothing more than soundbites for my friends on the other side of the aisle to use on the campaign trail, this Republican Congress has repeatedly ignored the calls from our constituents to act on issues they care about – issues that impact our communities, our neighborhoods, and our families.” Congress Must Act on Zika “Almost 17,000 Americans, including nearly 1,600 pregnant women, are currently suffering from the Zika virus. And this month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will run out of resources to fight Zika. In the words of Dr. Thomas Frieden of the CDC, “We need Congress to act.” “Instead of considering a bipartisan Zika funding bill, the Republican leadership in the House has, once again, caved to the most extreme factions of their Conference to produce an inadequate, partisan bill loaded with poison pill offsets.” House GOP Would Rather Punish Democrats for Sit-In Than Act on Gun Violence With House Republicans set to bring up a measure to punish House Democrats for their 25-hour sit-in on the House Floor in June 2016 as part of their push to stop gun violence, Congressman McGovern asked House Republicans where their outrage is about the innocent Americans killed by gun violence. “Where’s the outrage over the 49 innocent civilians killed in Orlando? Where’s the outrage over the 14 people killed in San Bernardino? Or the nine people killed in a church in South Carolina? Is there any outrage over that? Where’s the outrage over the 27, mostly children, killed in Newtown, Connecticut? Or the 12 people killed in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado? Or the outrage over the six people who were killed in Tucson, Arizona where our former colleague, Gabby Giffords, was shot? Or the 32 people killed at Virginia Tech? “Since my Republican friends have been in recess, over 4,000 Americans have been shot and killed by guns in this country. Where’s the outrage? The only outrage that my Republican friends seem to have is over the fact that Democrats have had the audacity to raise this question and say maybe we can do something. Maybe we can do something to protect our constituents. “Over 32,000 people in America die from gun violence each year – about 89 people per day. If this isn’t a public health emergency, I don’t know what is.” Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech is Below: “This week we return from seven weeks away from the Capitol – the longest summer recess in modern times – and House Republicans continue to delay action on the most pressing issues facing our country, instead focusing on issues that benefit special interests. “I had hoped that after we all spent time with our constituents over the summer recess, the priorities of this Republican leadership would change to reflect what the American people actually care about. “But they haven’t. “During our 252 days in session – which, by the way, includes 42 pro-forma days where no legislative business was accomplished – we have voted on countless bills to repeal the Affordable Care Act, undermine financial protections put in place by Dodd-Frank, and weaken environmental protections. “And we’re back on the floor this week to deregulate Wall Street, take away critical investor protections, and make it easier for those who break the law to get away without paying a financial price. “Today’s Rule provides for consideration of a bill that eliminates public interest protections, creates needless litigation and delay, and imposes draconian penalties on federal officials. It is a misinformed response to a nonexistent problem, and just one more corporate giveaway by this Republican Congress. And again, remember, this is going nowhere. “This isn’t leadership, M. Speaker. It’s like a recurring nightmare. “While spending time on efforts that are nothing more than soundbites for my friends on the other side of the aisle to use on the campaign trail, this Republican Congress has repeatedly ignored the calls from our constituents to act on issues they care about – issues that impact our communities, our neighborhoods, and our families. “House Republicans continue to obstruct meaningful action on the greatest public health crises impacting our country. “Almost 17,000 Americans, including nearly 1,600 pregnant women, are currently suffering from the Zika virus. And this month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention will run out of resources to fight Zika. In the words of Dr. Thomas Frieden of the CDC, “We need Congress to act.” “For seven months, President Obama and Democrats in Congress have urged the Republican leadership to take up and pass the administration’s emergency supplemental request. “But instead of considering a bipartisan Zika funding bill, the Republican leadership in the House has, once again, caved to the most extreme factions of their Conference to produce an inadequate, partisan bill loaded with poison pill offsets. “This is an emergency! We should treat it as such. But Republicans have spent months making excuses about why we don’t need to provide the full funding that our nation’s public health experts say we need. We have public health expert after public health expert tell us we need to act, and yet, my Republican friends seem to think they know better. They have brought to the floor legislation to undermine the Clean Water Act under the guise of containing the Zika virus. And they have even insisted on poison pill riders that continue the Republican assault on women’s access to comprehensive health care instead of bringing legislation that is focused solely on protecting American families from the terrible impacts of Zika. “House Republicans have blocked the full emergency resources needed to combat the Zika virus seven times, and left town for a 53-day recess without committing a dime to address this growing public health crisis. “It is shameful. “In addition to shirking our responsibilities on the Zika virus, this Republican leadership has prevented action on other public health emergencies like the opioid crisis, the terrible tragedy in Flint, Michigan, and the epidemic of gun violence plaguing our communities. “Congress passed a bill to address the opioid crisis and it was an important step, but we must do more. We need to pass a strong piece of legislation that actually funds our fight against the opioid crisis and gives state and local partners the resources they need to help so many of our communities who have been hit hard by this epidemic. Passing a bill that has all these nice statements in it and nice goals and not funding it, well that’s just a press release. And that’s about the extent of what this Congress has done to deal with this terrible opioid crisis. “For two years, 100,000 people in Flint, Michigan could not access safe water from their own faucets. For two years, hardworking Americans were denied the fundamental right of access to potable water. We’re not talking about some tiny country halfway around the world. This has been happening right here in the United States of America. “The Families of Flint Act, led by my friend and colleague Congressman Dan Kildee, would help the people in Flint recover from the man-made disaster that they are still dealing with. But, this Congress is too busy wasting its time to even consider bringing this vitally important, non-controversial bill up for a vote. “Where is the Majority leadership on this? Why are they simply sitting back and allowing countless families in Flint to continue to be unable to turn on their faucets and receive the safe water that they need. The very same safe water that Speaker Ryan and so many of us take for granted. “In fact, it was recently discovered that there were elevated levels of lead in the Cannon House Office Building. Congress has spared no expense in addressing that issue, yet has failed to give the Families of Flint Act a single vote or hearing in this chamber. “The Republican Congress has failed Flint by refusing to adequately fund our water infrastructure for years, and we are failing them again by not passing this commonsense legislation. “And while we’ve delayed action on a response to the Zika virus and the crisis in Flint, Michigan, House Republicans have also refused to act on bipartisan, commonsense legislation to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists and criminals. In fact, House Republicans have voted 24 times to block the “No Fly, No Buy” measure which polls indicate is supported by 74 percent of our constituents. “They have blocked debate on legislation to expand and strengthen background checks. If you go to a licensed gun dealer, you have to go through a background check. But if you go to a gun show or if you buy a gun online, you don’t have to go through a background check. What sense does that make? Who can be against that? “And yet, they have voted time and time again the right to bring that to the floor. They have voted five times against lifting the 19-year-long ban on federal research on gun violence. “What is the Republican Congress so afraid of? “We came back yesterday and I was looking through the press and trying to figure out, maybe some of the Republican leadership in this House would actually do something about gun violence to protect the American people. Something to make sure that people who have a history of violent crimes don’t have access to a gun. Or people who are mentally ill don’t have access to guns. I thought that maybe their constituents would knock some common sense into their heads while they were on recess. “We come back and what do we read? What is the Republican leadership response to all of this? They want to bring a resolution to the floor to punish Democrats for having the audacity to raise our voices and protest the fact that we cannot even get a vote on any of these bills that we think can save lives. They want to punish us, they want to sanction us, they want to condemn us because we said that in the greatest deliberative body in the world, we oughta be able to deliberate. “Apparently the Republican leadership is outraged over what they say is a breach of decorum that shut down the chamber for 25 hours because Democrats had a sit-in here and protest over the fact that we can’t bring any legislation up for a debate. They are outraged over that. That’s where their outrage is. “My question is, where’s the outrage over the 49 innocent civilians killed in Orlando? Where’s the outrage over the 14 people killed in San Bernardino? Or the nine people killed in a church in South Carolina? Is there any outrage over that? Where’s the outrage over the 27, mostly children, killed in Newtown, Connecticut? Or the 12 people killed in a movie theater in Aurora, Colorado? Or the outrage over the six people who were killed in Tucson, Arizona where our former colleague, Gabby Giffords, was shot? Or the 32 people killed at Virginia Tech? “Since my Republican friends have been in recess, over 4,000 Americans have been shot and killed by guns in this country. Where’s the outrage? The only outrage that my Republican friends seem to have is over the fact that Democrats have had the audacity to raise this question and say maybe we can do something. Maybe we can do something to protect our constituents. “I’ll say to my colleagues, we don’t need a slap on the wrist from the Republican leadership here. We need to reform our laws to ensure that guns are kept out of the wrong hands. “You know, over 32,000 people in America die from gun violence each year – about 89 people per day. If this isn’t a public health emergency, I don’t know what is. “But you come back and this is what we’re going to be debating on the House floor? This is it? The outrage, quite frankly, from the American people against the leadership of this House is over the fact that the Republican leaders have turned this chamber into a place where trivial issues are debated passionately and important ones not at all. “Enough. Let’s do the people’s business. We’re not doing it today and I hope that my colleagues will reconsider their agenda for the time we’re back here and actually do something meaningful.” ###
09.07.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) expressed his appreciation to the 27 Massachusetts residents who completed a summer internship in his Massachusetts district offices. “Each summer we are proud to welcome young people from across the district to serve in our offices in Central and Western Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “These internships are an opportunity to serve our community and gain the valuable skills and experiences that will prepare them for rewarding careers and bright futures. It has been exciting to watch each of them learn and grow and I know big things are ahead for this next generation of leaders.” Summer 2016 interns in Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts offices come from across the district, including Auburn, Millbury, North Grafton, Northborough, Orange, Shrewsbury, West Boylston, Westborough, and Worcester. Photos and information about each summer intern are below. Anna Bebbington is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office and is a junior studying Sustainable Development at Worcester University of Andrews in Scotland. Benjamin Salfeld is from North Grafton, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior at Bancroft High School in Worcester. Caleb Horton is from Portland, Maine, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior studying American Government at Clark University in Worcester. Charles Lewis is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a junior studying Business Management at Merrimack College in North Andover, Massachusetts. Cherie Li is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a junior studying Political Science at Clark University in Worcester. Claire Hunter is from Auburn, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a junior studying Political Science at Syracuse University in upstate New York. Cory Sagerstrom is from Shrewsbury, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior at St. Johns High School in Shrewsbury. David LaJeunesse is from Auburn, served as an intern in the Worcester office this summer and in previous years, and graduated from Clark University in Worcester with a master’s degree in American History. Emily Lowe is from Northborough, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a sophomore studying History and Secondary English at Saint Anselm College in Manchester, New Hampshire. Emily Bigwood is from Westborough, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a junior studying Mathematics at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Worcester. Gabriel Angelini is from Westborough, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior at Westborough High School. Irtiqaa Ahmed is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a student at North High School in Worcester. Isabella Van Atten is from West Boylston, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a student at Notre Dame Academy in Wprcester. Jean-Philippe Matondo is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior studying International Business at Worcester State University. Kasey Poulin is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is currently a graduate student in the Master’s in Public Administration program at Clark University. Katherine Johnson is from Auburn, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a junior studying Political Science at Providence College in Rhode Island. Kerry Shea is from Shrewsbury, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior studying History and Political Science at UMass Amherst. Liam Davidson is from Shrewsbury, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and after graduating from St. John’s High School in Worcester this year, will start as a freshman at Dartmouth College this fall. Michael Tozeski is from Shrewsbury, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and graduated this year from the University of Connecticut with a Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science. Patrick Moseley is from Millbury, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior studying History at Worcester State University. Samuel Cullen is from West Boylston, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a senior at St. Sebastian’s School in Needham. Tyler Connors is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and recently graduated from Clark University with a Bachelor’s Degree in International Relations. Wei Zhang is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, received a Bachelor’s of Science in International Economics and Trade from Clark University, and is currently enrolled in their Master’s of Public Administration program. Zebra Khan is from Shrewsbury, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a sophomore studying Political Science at McGill University in Canada. Ryan Early is from Worcester, served as an intern in the Worcester office, and is a student at Clark University. ###
09.02.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the U.S. Small Business Administration will make federal economic injury disaster loans available to small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small businesses engaged in aquaculture and most private non-profit organizations of all sizes located in Worcester County as a result of the drought that began on Aug. 16, 2016. “I have heard from small business owners across Central Massachusetts who have been impacted by the drought this summer. These loans will provide much-needed relief as local small businesses work to recover,” Congressman McGovern said. “Our small businesses and local non-profits are key to keeping our communities strong and our economy growing in Central Massachusetts. I encourage all eligible residents to apply now so that they can get the help they need.” “These counties are eligible because they are contiguous to one or more primary counties in New Hampshire. The Small Business Administration recognizes that disasters do not usually stop at county or state lines. For that reason, counties adjacent to primary counties named in the declaration are included,” said Frank Skaggs, director of SBA’s Field Operations Center East in Atlanta. “When the Secretary of Agriculture issues a disaster declaration to help farmers recover from damages and losses to crops, the Small Business Administration issues a declaration to eligible entities affected by the same disaster,” said Skaggs. Under this declaration, the SBA’s Economic Injury Disaster Loan program is available to eligible farm-related and nonfarm-related entities that suffered financial losses as a direct result of this disaster. With the exception of aquaculture enterprises, SBA cannot provide disaster loans to agricultural producers, farmers or ranchers. Nurseries are eligible to apply for economic injury disaster loans for losses caused by drought conditions. The loan amount can be up to $2 million with interest rates of 2.625 percent for private non-profit organizations of all sizes and 4 percent for small businesses, with terms up to 30 years. The SBA determines eligibility based on the size of the applicant, type of activity and its financial resources. Loan amounts and terms are set by the SBA and are based on each applicant’s financial condition. These working capital loans may be used to pay fixed debts, payroll, accounts payable, and other bills that could have been paid had the disaster not occurred. The loans are not intended to replace lost sales or profits. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Disaster loan information and application forms may also be obtained by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 800-659-2955 (800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing) or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can be downloaded from www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. Completed loan applications must be returned to SBA no later than April 25, 2017. For more information about the SBA’s Disaster Loan Program, visit www.sba.gov/disaster. ###
08.31.2016	As Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) starts the second day of his 6th annual farm tour today, he announced that a $64,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Agriculture will be provided to Community Involved in Sustaining Agriculture (CISA) to help farmers and ranchers in the Connecticut River Valley of Massachusetts to learn more about programs and support from the USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA). “When farmers in Western Massachusetts succeed, our economy grows and our community thrives. This grant is a smart investment that will help to keep our local farmers connected with the USDA so they have access to the tools and resources they need to grow,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “I am grateful to have the USDA as a strong partner as we continue to support farmers across Western Massachusetts.” The funds, in the form of a cooperative agreement, were announced at a producers’ roundtable in Greenfield during a two-day farm tour organized by Congressman Jim McGovern, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. He was joined at the roundtable by Brad Pfaff, FSA Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, Washington, DC; Jonathan D. Niedzielski, FSA State Executive Director; and Christine Clarke, Natural Resources Conservation Service State Conservationist. “We’re working to reach more farmers in Massachusetts who have not used or been aware of opportunities provided by FSA programs,” said Pfaff. “This cooperative agreement with CISA will get the word out to a new generation of producers. Our disaster assistance, income safety-net and lending programs can help farmers succeed, especially when challenged by unforeseen downswings in the weather or markets.” “Twenty-eight percent of total sales by Massachusetts farmers are ‘direct market,’ meaning straight from the farmer to the local consumer,” said Niedzielski. “Our producers are also very good at adding value to their products at the farm, packaging and marketing their produce, which puts more money into their pockets in direct sales. This agreement will help connect farmers with FSA here in Massachusetts so they can get the help they need to grow their operations.” FSA, which solicited applications last fall, received more than 100 proposals that requested more than $9 million in funding. Nearly $2.5 million will go to nonprofits, associations, universities and foundations that will provide training and information on agricultural best practices, local networking opportunities and more. A list of awardees can be found at www.fsa.usda.gov/outreach. Today’s announcement augments Obama Administration efforts to support new and small farm operations in Massachusetts. Earlier this month, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack announced a new investment of $17.8 million for 37 projects across the country to help educate, mentor and enhance the sustainability of the next generation of farmers. One of those is a three-year, $595,000 grant to CISA to reach about 600 new farmers and ranchers with technical workshops and other assistance. CISA’s goal is to “double the amount of local food in the diets of Pioneer Valley residents by 2035.” That investment is made through USDA’s Beginning Farmer and Rancher Development Program (BFRDP). Since 2009, USDA has invested more than $126 million into projects targeting new and beginning farmers and ranchers through BFRDP. Founded in 1993, CISA serves the primarily agricultural Connecticut River Valley of Massachusetts. The region is home to the cities of Springfield, Chicopee and Holyoke, the academic communities of Amherst and Northampton, rural towns and suburban communities. Supporting direct market farmers is part of USDA’s Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food (KYF2) Initiative, which coordinates the Department's work to develop strong local and regional food systems. Under the Obama Administration, USDA has invested close to $1 billion in 40,000 local food-related projects on farms and in communities across the country. Access the KYF2 Compass to locate USDA investments in your community. Since 2009, USDA has worked to strengthen and support American agriculture, an industry that supports one in 11 American jobs, provides American consumers with more than 80 percent of the food we consume, ensures that Americans spend less of their paychecks at the grocery store than most people in other countries and supports markets for homegrown renewable energy and materials. USDA has also provided $5.6 billion of disaster relief to farmers and ranchers; expanded risk management tools with products like to Whole Farm Revenue Protection; and helped farm businesses grow with $36 billion in farm credit. USDA has engaged its resources to support a strong next generation of farmers and ranchers by improving access to land and capital; building new markets and market opportunities; extending new conservation opportunities; offering appropriate risk management tools; and increasing our outreach, education and technical support including 102,000 direct and guaranteed farm operating and ownership loans. USDA has also provided more than 18,000 microloans totaling over $406 million since the program began in January 2013. Nearly 89 percent of microloans, or more than $363 million, were used by new, beginning and underserved farmers to grow their farming operations. For more information, visit www.usda.gov/results. ###
08.30.2016	Today, August 30th and Tomorrow, 31st, U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (MA-02) will host his 6th annual cross-district agricultural tour to meet with farmers, agricultural producers, non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations in Central and Western Massachusetts to highlight the success of our region’s agricultural industry and its role in growing the region’s economy. Congressman McGovern will meet with local producers of vegetables, dairy, and meat, and will also meet with non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations. McGovern will be joined by Brad Pfaff, USDA Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, as well as many other local, state and federal leaders. Congressman McGovern looks forward to learning more about issues of importance to the farming community. The tour will include visits to local farms as well as roundtable discussions on a wide range of topics such as: the preservation of and access to farm land; the impact climate change is having on agricultural production; and new organic standards. Congressman McGovern will see firsthand the impact of local, state and federal programs and discuss additional ways that government at all levels can support the Massachusetts food economy. A Full List of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour is below: August 30th – Day 1 9:30 -10:30AM: Green Acres Farm, 51 Pleasant St, Mendon 11:00AM-12:00PM: Pearson’s Elmhurst Dairy, 342 West Main St., Millbury 12:30-1:45PM: St. Joseph’s Abbey, 167 North Spencer Road, Spencer /Tour and roundtable discussion on New Organic Standards. 2:00 –3:00PM: Inishowen Farms, 18 North Street, North Brookfield 3:30-4:30PM: Clover Springs Farm, 233 Ragged Hill Road, West Brookfield 4:45- 5:45PM: Stillman's Farm, 1205 Barre Cutoff, New Braintree August 31st – Day 2 8:00-9:00AM: Tanstaafl Farm, 389 Adams Road, Greenfield 9:30-10:30AM: Bar-Way Farm, 188 Mill Village Road, Deerfield 10:50AM-12:00PM: CISA Offices, 1 Sugarloaf Street, South Deerfield / Roundtable discussion on the Preservation of, and Access to, Farm Land. 12:05-1:05PM: The Kitchen Garden, 131 South Silver Lane, Sunderland 1:15-2:15PM: Twin Oaks Farm, 116 Stockbridge Road, Hadley 2:20-3:20PM: Plainville Farm, 135 Mount Warner Road, Hadley 3:30-5:30PM: Winter Moon Farm, 17 Lawrence Plain Rd., Hadley / Roundtable discussion on Climate Change and its Impact on Agricultural Production. For more info and to RSVP, please contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov or 202-308-8430. ###
08.24.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress for human rights, applauded the news that negotiators from the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) guerrilla group will make a historic announcement tonight to end an armed conflict that began in 1964. “Today marks a historic step forward for peace in Colombia. This groundbreaking agreement is the culmination of years of hard work and would not have been possible without the strong commitment of the Colombian government and FARC guerillas as they worked to achieve a lasting solution,” Congressman McGovern said. “Following more than 50 years of conflict and suffering which has scarred nearly every family in Colombia, peace is no longer a fantasy. At the heart of this process and essential to its success has been the Colombian people themselves who never stopped believing that peace was possible. “In addition to the negotiating teams of both sides, I want to express my respect for President Santos, who has demonstrated political courage in initiating and pursuing these negotiations,” McGovern added. “I also want to express my gratitude for the important roles played by Cuba, Norway, Chile and Venezuela, U.S. Special Envoy to Colombia Bernard Aronson and the German and European Union Special Envoys in providing crucial support at key moments in the negotiations.” “As a proud partner for peace, the United States must work with the international community to do all it can to support the successful implantation of this historic agreement,” McGovern concluded. “We must stand with the Colombian people now to help them achieve a just and lasting peace and the brighter future they dream of for themselves and their children.” Congressman McGovern has long been a leading voice in Congress supporting the push for peace in Colombia. In December 2015, Congressman McGovern co-sponsored a bipartisan resolution backing the Colombian peace process and in February 2016, Congressman McGovern joined nearly 60 House lawmakers in urging President Obama to do all he could to support the ongoing negotiations in Colombia as both parties worked toward a peace agreement. ###
08.22.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that Worcester Airport has been awarded a $1.4 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to install taxiway lighting. The new federal funding will allow Massport to install a Surface Movement Guidance and Control (SMGCS) lighting system on a taxiway to Runway 11-29 to enhance safe airfield operations during low visibility conditions. “With this grant, Worcester Regional Airport will have the resources they need to continue to grow and make this a convenient and affordable options for Worcester residents,” Congressman McGovern said. “Bringing federal dollars back to Worcester to support our local economy has always been one of my top priorities. With this new funding, Worcester Airport will be able to install taxiway lighting that will help to ensure continued service even during inclement weather with low visibility. I am proud to have strong partners with the FAA supporting our region’s economy and thank Massport for all that they are doing to help Worcester airport grow and succeed.” “Massport is grateful for Congressman McGovern's advocacy for Worcester Regional Airport,’’ said Massport CEO Thomas P. Glynn. “The ground movement system will be critical for the CAT III landing system." Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion of the Worcester Airport’s recent revitalization and helped to secure $3 million in funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the airport’s Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) station. In September 2015, Congressman McGovern announced $2.7 million in FAA funding support the construction of a partial parallel taxiway to Runway 11-29 in order to reduce the need to back taxi on the runway. That $2.7 million grant provided funding for phase 1 of a 2 phase project. That phase included construction of an approximately 3,500 foot haul road. The project also includes the installation of a new CAT III approach lighting system for Runway 11. This grant provided funding for the reconstruction of Surface Movement Guidance Control System (SMGCS) route taxiways and installation of the lighting system infrastructure which is necessary for the installation of the approach lighting system. ###
08.18.2016	This week Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led a group of 72 House lawmakers in a letter calling on President Obama to make Tibet a priority in his final months in office. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress pushing for the United States to do more to support reforms that would strengthen human rights in Tibet. In November 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and other lawmakers on a trip to China and Tibet to urge Chinese leaders to enact reforms to increase the freedom and autonomy of the Tibetan people. “We write to ask that you redouble efforts in support of the Tibetan people during your remaining months in office. We believe it is critically important to move beyond words to actions,” McGovern and House lawmakers wrote in the letter to President Obama. “The Tibetan people view the United States as their friend. It is time to honor that friendship with new, creative strategies to encourage meaningful dialogue, protect Tibetan rights, and preserve their unique cultural, religious and linguistic identity.” In the letter to President Obama, Congressman McGovern and House lawmakers call for: U.S. government officials to invite the Dalai Lama to every event, on every occasion, where his knowledge and decades of reflections would be helpful for addressing the world’s problems. U.S. government officials to facilitate the involvement of the Dalai Lama or his representatives in the global debate on climate change and its potential consequences given Tibet’s fragile environment, rapid warming, and critically important reserves of freshwater. The establishment of a U.S. consular office in Lhasa, Tibet to help the U.S. observe and address the obstacles to freedom of movement that affect both Tibetans within China, and U.S. citizens, including Tibetan-Americans, who seek to travel to Tibetan areas of China. The U.S. government to publicly support the right of the Dalai Lama to return to Tibet President Obama to publically and regularly call for the immediate and unconditional release of all Tibetan political prisoners held by the People’s Republic of China whose cases have been documented by the Congressional-Executive Commission on China. Enforcement of norms of reciprocity to ensure that senior Chinese officials responsible for restricting the access of U.S. officials, journalists, Tibetan-Americans and other citizens to Tibetan areas of China are themselves restricted in their travel when they are in the United States. Joining Congressman McGovern on the letter to President Obama were Congressman Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Nita Lowey (D-NY), Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Committee, as well as Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Tim Walz (D-MN), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Richard Neal (D-MA), Joe Courtney (D-CT), David Cicilline (D-RI), Peter Welch (D-VT), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), John Garamendi (D-CA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), William Keating (D-MA), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Nydia Velazquex (D-NY), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Gene Green (D-TX), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Pedro Pierluisi (D-P.R.), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Michael Honda (D-CA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Andre Carson (D-IN), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Sam Farr (D-CA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), John Lewis (D-GA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Mark Desaulnier (CA), Jerry McNerney (CA), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Joseph Kennedy III (D-MA), Danny Davis (D-IL), Donald Beyer (D-VA), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Keith Ellison (D-MN), John Larson (D-CT), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Sander Levin (D-MI), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ann Kuster (D-NH), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Juan Vargas (D-CA). The full text of the letter is below: August 17, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, In June, His Holiness the Dalai Lama visited Washington. Prior to his meeting with you, he came to Capitol Hill, where he spoke of his genuine friendship with Members of Congress, thanked the United States for its staunch support for Tibet over many decades, and described America as the leading nation in the free world. It was an honor and a pleasure to be in his company, but his visit was also a reminder of how little progress has been made in addressing the grievances of the Tibetan people. It is for this reason that we write to ask that you redouble efforts in support of the Tibetan people during your remaining months in office. Since the 1980s, the Congress has often spoken out for the Tibetan people. The purpose of the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002 (TPA), the principal legislation guiding U.S. policy toward Tibet, is “to support the aspirations of the Tibetan people to safeguard their distinct identity” through substantive dialogue between the government of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and the Dalai Lama or his representatives. The position of Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues established by the TPA is called upon to “vigorously promote the policy of seeking to protect the distinct religious, cultural, linguistic, and national identity of Tibet,” and to press for “improved respect for human rights.” Last summer, the Congress passed House Resolution 337, which recognized the Dalai Lama’s 80th birthday and reaffirmed the TPA policy framework, calling on the U.S. government to redouble its efforts to encourage substantive dialogue, stalled since 2010, and to oppose PRC interference in the reincarnation process. The State Department’s next annual report to the Congress on Tibet negotiations in the framework of the TPA is due shortly. But unfortunately, we can already anticipate the content: meetings and conversations will have been held, including your June meeting with the Dalai Lama, high-level public and private statements will have been made, and note may be taken of State Department reports that document the human rights situation in Tibetan areas of China. But in the end, the dialogue will not have resumed and no concrete achievements will be identified. We understand that it is the government of the PRC, not that of the United States, that is the principle obstacle to progress on redressing the grievances of the Tibetan people. But as the Dalai Lama celebrates his 81st birthday, our concern about the future is growing. During his meetings on the Hill, His Holiness recalled the Tibetan commitment to non-violence and reiterated that his people are seeking autonomy within, not independence from, China. He emphasized that the philosophy underpinning Tibetan Buddhism has much to offer China and the world, and spoke at length about the global environmental importance of the Tibetan plateau. He contrasted the democratic practices of the Tibetan people with the wartime mentality and the immense corruption that have infected China’s approach to governance. We believe his words suggest new opportunities that could be pursued within the framework of the TPA. First, the U.S. government should invite the Dalai Lama to every event, on every occasion, where his knowledge and decades of reflections would be helpful for addressing the world’s problems. The Dalai Lama is a world spiritual and philosophical leader who is well-positioned to contribute to global debates on religious tolerance and countering violent extremism, on the conceptual foundations and uses of non-violence, and on building peace in war-torn countries, among other topics. Tibetan Buddhists should be included in U.S.-supported initiatives to foster cross-cultural understanding and tolerance. Second, the U.S. government should facilitate the involvement of the Dalai Lama or his representatives in the global debate on climate change and its potential consequences. Climate change, one of the few topics on which the U.S. and China have found common ground, is of great concern for Tibet, given its fragile environment, rapid warming, and critically important reserves of freshwater. For its part, the Chinese leadership has acknowledged at the highest levels the scale of the environmental crisis it faces. Conserving the Tibetan plateau is surely a shared interest, one that can only be achieved with the full participation of the Tibetan people within and outside China… the transnational democratic experience of the Central Tibet Administration (CTA) should be highlighted in U.S. government initiatives that promote democratic governance Third, the transnational democratic experience of the Central Tibet Administration (CTA) should be highlighted in U.S. government initiatives that promote democratic governance. The CTA’s recent elections, in which Dr. Lobsang Sangay was reelected as Sikyong and the 45-member Assembly of the Tibetan People’s Deputies was selected, were carried out over several months in more than 30 countries with the participation of tens of thousands of people. This electoral process stands in sharp contrast to China’s authoritarian practices and offers an interesting, innovative model in an increasingly globalized world. Mr. President, we welcome your expressions of support for the preservation of Tibet’s unique religious, cultural and linguistic traditions, and the equal protection of human rights of Tibetans in China, and your recognition of Dalai Lama’s efforts to raise awareness of the importance of limiting global warming, including protecting the Himalayan glaciers and environment on the Tibetan plateau. But we believe it is critically important to move beyond words to actions. Initiatives like those we have described that underscore the relevance of the Tibetan experience for world affairs should complement renewed and more robust efforts to fully implement the TPA. In this regard, we strongly encourage your Administration, during the remaining months of your term in office, to focus on establishing a consular office in Lhasa. Such a presence is critical for observing and addressing the obstacles to freedom of movement that affect both Tibetans within China, and U.S. citizens, including Tibetan-Americans, who seek to travel to Tibetan areas of China. As you are surely aware, although the U.S. government allows journalists and other citizens of the PRC to travel freely within the United States, the Chinese government restricts the access of U.S. officials, journalists, Tibetan-Americans and other citizens to Tibetan areas of the country. Legislation pending in Congress would address this problem by making those senior Chinese officials responsible for the policy ineligible to receive visas to enter the United States, on the premise that reciprocity forms the basis of diplomatic engagement between countries. Pending passage of such legislation, nothing precludes your Administration from implementing a policy of reciprocity now, or tying Chinese access to United States territory to the opening of a consular presence in Lhasa. In addition, the U.S. government should publicly support the right of the Dalai Lama to return to Tibet. In accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which China voted for in 1948, everyone has the right to leave and return to his own country. Finally, we strongly urge you to publically and regularly call for the immediate and unconditional release of all Tibetan political prisoners held by the PRC whose cases have been documented by the Congressional-Executive Commission on China. Mr. President, the Tibetan people view the United States as their friend. It is time to honor that friendship with new, creative strategies to encourage meaningful dialogue, protect Tibetan rights, and preserve their unique cultural, religious and linguistic identity. We respectfully request that you exercise your leadership on this matter. Sincerely, ###
08.16.2016	BARRE, MA –Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded the Bare Fire Department a $229,429 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) to support their operations and safety. The grant will allow the Barre Fire Department to purchase 32 self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) devices to replace very old and well-used devices. Each breathing apparatus provides breathable air essential to helping firefighters do their jobs. “Investing in our first responders is essential to keeping our communities safe and this grant will help support the great work Chief Rogowski and the Barre Fire Department are doing,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to the Department of Homeland Security for this grant and for being such a strong partner for our local communities. Every day, the brave service and sacrifice of our Barre firefighters and their families helps to keep Barre safe. I am glad that this award will allow them to purchase the equipment they need to continue this important work.” “The Barre Fire Department is grateful for the $229,429 received from FEMA for the Fiscal Year 2015 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program,” said Barre Fire Chief Robert Rogowski. “These funds will allow the department to purchase 32 self-contained breathing apparatus devices to replace very old and well-used devices We are proud to help keep Barre safe every day and appreciate this much-needed funding.” The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. For more information about the AFG program, click here. ###
08.15.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced a total of $7.3 million in funding from the U.S. Department of Education for Massachusetts Education and Career Opportunities, Inc. (MassEdCO) in Worcester. The funding is through a $5.5 million five-year grant from the Educational Opportunity Centers (EOC) program and a $1.8 million five-year grant from the Education Talent Search (ETS) program. Both awards will support MassEdCO’s mission to help more Massachusetts residents pursue a college education and good-paying jobs. MassEdCO is a statewide network of service sites that provides education and career advising to over 14,000 individuals each year. This new federal funding will help MassEdCO continue to pursue its mission to assist individuals in identifying a potential career path and the education programs that will lead to that career, and help them enroll in, pay for and succeed in the appropriate education program. For more information about MassEdCO, click here. “A college education can be a game changer, but for so many families working to reach the middle class, a college degree is too often out of reach. With this grant we can help to change that,” Congressman McGovern said. “Every year MassEdCO helps thousands of Massachusetts residents pursue and receive a college education and help with their career and these new funds will help to continue that important work. This smart investment in our community will open doors for so many and I look forward to seeing all the good that it will do. “MassEdCO is extremely pleased to be able to continue its delivery of critical post-secondary access services in high-need areas across the state,” said MassEdCO CEO Pamela Boisvert. “An array of academic and career advising services funded through the EOC and ETS programs enable over 6,800 Massachusetts residents annually to progress toward their academic and career goals.” "I don't know what I would have done without EOC services. I am an immigrant to this country. EOC walked me through the whole college application process, particularly the financial aid,” said Helena Osei of Worcester, a Quinsigamond Community College student and program participant since 2013. “They do a terrific job and they are amazing. I don't know what I would do each year without them. I am so grateful!" The Educational Opportunity Centers program provides counseling and information on college admissions to qualified adults who want to enter or continue a program of postsecondary education. The program also provides services to improve the financial and economic literacy of participants. An important objective of the program is to counsel participants on financial aid options, including basic financial planning skills, and to assist in the application process. The goal of the EOC program is to increase the number of adult participants who enroll in postsecondary education institutions. To learn more about the Education Opportunity Centers Program, click here. The Education Talent Search program identifies and assists individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds who have the potential to succeed in higher education. The program provides academic, career, and financial counseling to its participants and encourages them to graduate from high school and continue on to and complete their postsecondary education. The program publicizes the availability of financial aid and assist participant with the postsecondary application process. Talent Search also encourages persons who have not completed education programs at the secondary or postsecondary level to enter or reenter and complete postsecondary education. The goal of Talent Search is to increase the number of youth from disadvantaged backgrounds who complete high school and enroll in and complete their postsecondary education. For more information about the ETS program, click here. ###
08.15.2016	Today Representatives Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Norma Torres (CA-35) led a group of 26 House lawmakers in a letter calling on President Obama to declassify U.S. military and intelligence records and reports that have not been previously released that relate to unresolved cases of disappearances and human rights abuses during the period of the civil war in El Salvador “The United States played an important role in providing military, economic and intelligence assistance to the Salvadoran government, military and its allies over the course of the civil war,” the House lawmakers wrote in the letter. “Further declassification in relation to unresolved cases in El Salvador could now help bring peace to the families of the disappeared and advance that nation’s on-going process to secure justice and reconciliation.” Congressman McGovern is the co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and Congresswoman Torres is the co-chair of the House Central America Caucus. In April 2016, the commission and caucus hosted a briefing on Capitol Hill with Salvadoran and Salvadoran-American family members whose loved ones disappeared during the civil war. Mr. David Morales, the Salvadoran Human Rights Ombudsman, was also a panelist at that briefing. “Today, as Salvadorans and Salvadoran-Americans call for investigation of unresolved disappearances, and as other human rights cases move forward, it is appropriate and timely for the U.S. to consider a new review and declassification of all remaining records in relation to these cases and circumstances,” the lawmakers added. “Information in U.S. files could help identify individuals or groups involved in forced disappearances and provide insight and leads about where those forcibly disappeared were taken for interrogation, or where bodies were disposed. U.S. records might help identify some of the patterns of disappearances and give investigators clues as they pursue cases of forced disappearance or other abuses. Joining McGovern and Torres on the letter to President Obama were Representatives Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mike Honda (D-CA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Rick Larsen (D-WA), and Suzan DelBene (D-WA). Additionally, McGovern and Torres led a group of 21 House lawmakers in a letter calling on Salvadoran President Sánchez Cerén to establish a national commission to investigate and resolve the cases of the disappeared in El Salvador. “Mr. President, we believe establishing a commission to investigate and resolve cases of the disappeared would be an important and positive step in relieving the suffering of so many Salvadoran families and communities, and for Salvadoran society as a whole,” the House lawmakers wrote in the letter. “We also believe that it would advance your own priorities to promote reconciliation, strengthen justice and rule of law, and consolidate peace in El Salvador.” Joining McGovern and Torres on the letter to Salvador President Sánchez Cerén were Representatives Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mike Honda (D-CA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), and Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL). Full Text of the Letters to President Obama and President Cerén are Below: August 15, 2016 The Honorable Barack H. Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, We write to respectfully urge you to direct a review and declassification of U.S. military and intelligence records and reports that have not been previously released that relate to unresolved cases of disappearances and human rights abuses during the period of the civil war in El Salvador. Your recent decision to order the declassification of records related to the dirty war in Argentina was an important and welcome step that will help uncover the truth about what happened in that country during that conflict. It demonstrates that you understand the pain and suffering of families who have long searched for information about what happened to their loved ones who disappeared decades ago – and the importance of how U.S. records might help facilitate clarifying the truth and strengthening justice in the countries where their forced disappearances occurred. Recently, a group of Salvadorans and Salvadoran-Americans whose family members were forcibly disappeared during the Salvadoran civil war came to Washington to talk about their efforts to uncover the truth about what happened to their loved ones. They told moving and powerful stories about missing parents and loved ones. According to the 1993 U.N.-sponsored Truth Commission, which reported on human rights abuses during the 12-year civil war, more than 5,000 people were forcibly disappeared, most often by security forces or “heavily armed men in civilian dress.” Human rights and victims’ groups place the numbers as high as 10,000. None of these cases has ever been fully investigated. Many family members have no knowledge about what happened to their spouses, parents or other relatives, and they have never been able to bury their dead or find closure to their grief. Family members and victims’ groups are calling on the Government of El Salvador to launch a commission to investigate these cases and identify what happened to the disappeared. This will require investigative capacity, forensic capacity, and access to military and intelligence records in El Salvador. We support this call, and we will be urging the Salvadoran government to create such a commission. We hope that you will do the same. Today, as El Salvador seeks to strengthen its criminal justice system and consolidate the rule of law, and with a new Attorney General in office, it needs to address unresolved human rights cases, including these of forced disappearances. Creating a commission on the disappeared, and opening investigations into unresolved cases will not only bring a measure of closure to the families of victims, but it will demonstrate the government’s willingness to overcome the legacy of impunity and to pursue abuses, wherever they may lead. These steps will strengthen rule of law and reinforce equality before the law in El Salvador, principles that both the U.S. and the Salvadoran governments have committed to as part of the Alliance for Prosperity and the U.S. strategy for Central America. Investigations into disappearances and other human rights abuses would be greatly aided by further review and declassification of U.S. military and intelligence records related to those cases. In 1993, following the report of the U.N. Truth Commission, President Clinton ordered a review and declassification of State Department, military and intelligence documents. The released documents were extensive and have played an important role in subsequent human rights cases and in research on the events of the war. Between 1998 and 2000, further State Department and Pentagon documents related to the case of four U.S. churchwomen murdered in El Salvador were released in an unredacted format. Today, as Salvadorans and Salvadoran-Americans call for investigation of unresolved disappearances, and as other human rights cases move forward, it is appropriate and timely for the U.S. to consider a new review and declassification of all remaining records in relation to these cases and circumstances. Information in U.S. files could help identify individuals or groups involved in forced disappearances and provide insight and leads about where those forcibly disappeared were taken for interrogation, or where bodies were disposed. U.S. records might help identify some of the patterns of disappearances and give investigators clues as they pursue cases of forced disappearance or other abuses. The United States played an important role in providing military, economic and intelligence assistance to the Salvadoran government, military and its allies over the course of the civil war. Further declassification in relation to unresolved cases in El Salvador could now help bring peace to the families of the disappeared and advance that nation’s on-going process to secure justice and reconciliation. Thank you, Mr. President, for your serious attention to this request. We look forward to working with you in the creation of a mechanism to declassify the remaining U.S. records related to these cases and to helping Salvadorans and Salvadoran-Americans recover the truth about their loved ones. Sincerely, …………………… August 15, 2016 Sr. Salvador Sánchez Cerén President Republic of El Salvador Casa Presidencial San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. Dear President Sánchez Cerén, We respectfully write to urge you to establish a national commission to investigate and help resolve the cases of Salvadorans who disappeared during the period of the Salvadoran civil war. As you well know, the 1993 U.N.-sponsored Truth Commission, which reported on human rights abuses during the 12-year civil war, more than 5,000 people were forcibly disappeared, most often by security forces or “heavily armed men in civilian dress.” Human rights and victims’ groups estimate the numbers might be as high as 10,000 disappeared. None of these cases has ever been fully investigated. Many family members have no knowledge about what happened to their spouses, parents, siblings or other relatives, and they have been unable to bury their dead or find closure to their grief and suffering. Recently, a group of Salvadorans and Salvadoran-Americans whose family members were forcibly disappeared during the war came to Washington, DC to talk about their efforts to uncover the truth about what happened to their loved ones. They told moving and powerful stories about missing parents and loved ones. It is our understanding that family members of the disappeared and victims’ groups are calling on the Government of El Salvador to launch a commission to investigate these cases and identify what happened to the disappeared. We support this call, and we encourage you to exercise your leadership and establish such a commission. An effective commission will require investigative capacity, forensic capacity, and access to Salvadoran military, intelligence other records in El Salvador. With your support, such a commission could do much to address the pain and uncertainty that the families of the disappeared continue to experience. We strongly support the national commission created by the Salvadoran government to investigate and locate children who were forcibly and/or involuntarily separated from their natural parents and relatives during the civil war. That commission, although not perfect, is generally viewed as making an important contribution to reuniting families and healing wartime wounds. A similar commission on the disappeared could also make an important contribution to reconciliation and to healing for these long-suffering families and communities. Today, as El Salvador seeks to strengthen its criminal justice system and consolidate the rule of law, it needs to address unresolved human rights cases, including forced disappearances. Creating a commission on the disappeared and opening investigations into unresolved cases will not only bring a measure of peace to the families of victims, it will also demonstrate the willingness of your Administration to overcome the legacy of impunity and its commitment to pursue abuses, wherever they might lead. These steps will help strengthen rule of law and reinforce equality before the law, principles that both the U.S. and the Salvadoran governments pledged as part of the Alliance for Prosperity. Please know that we have asked President Obama to declassify all remaining U.S. records relevant to the search for El Salvador’s disappeared and the circumstances surrounding forced disappearances during the civil war. We have also asked him to support the establishment of such a commission on the disappeared by the Salvadoran government. Mr. President, we believe establishing a commission to investigate and resolve cases of the disappeared would be an important and positive step in relieving the suffering of so many Salvadoran families and communities, and for Salvadoran society as a whole. We also believe that it would advance your own priorities to promote reconciliation, strengthen justice and rule of law, and consolidate peace in El Salvador. Thank you for your attention to this request. We look forward to hearing from you and working with you on this serious human rights issue. Sincerely, ###
08.09.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) today issued the following statement in response to the convictions of four Chinese human rights activists: “Last week, four courageous Chinese human rights activists, including a prominent lawyer, were convicted by a Chinese court of ‘subversion of state power’ for exercising their legal rights and defending those of others. “Zhou Shifeng, director of the Fengrui Law Firm, and activists Hu Shigen, Zhai Yanmin and Gou Hongguo, all with ties to the law firm, were subjected to trials that were wholly lacking in due process and lasted only a few hours each. Beforehand, the four were held incommunicado for over a year. No credible evidence was made available to the public, and authorities did not notify the defendants’ family members or lawyers, nor allow them to attend or represent the accused. When the wife of one of the activists went to court to seek information about the trial, she was detained and then confined to her home. “These convictions follow the strange public ‘confession’ of Wang Yu, another renowned human rights lawyer, in which she supposedly admitted to being ‘used’ by foreign organizations to ‘smear China.’ The Chinese government says both Wang Yu and her husband, Bao Longjun, have been granted bail, but no one has seen them. Their teenage son is under house arrest. Human rights groups report that China may put as many as 13 more arrested lawyers and human rights advocates on trial in the coming months. “We are constantly being told that the Chinese government believes in the rule of law. But that is false. Rule of law is about restraining the state’s arbitrary exercise of power by subordinating it to established law. Chinese authorities do the opposite: they use ‘law’ to enforce their power against anyone they cannot otherwise control, including their own citizens as they seek to exercise their most fundamental human rights. The law should protect rights, not legalize human rights abuses. “I call on the Chinese authorities to immediately and unconditionally release Zhou Shifeng, Hu Shigen, Zhai Yanmin, Gou Hongguo, and all the other human rights lawyers and activists still being held due to their support or association with the Fengrui Law Firm. Wang Yu and Bao Longjun must be allowed to speak freely with their lawyers, diplomats and the media. Enough with words: China must act. "And while I applaud the State Department’s strong statement condemning these latest judicial abuses, I strongly urge the U.S. government to find more effective ways to leverage our bilateral relationship in support of human rights. It’s time to recognize that China’s treatment of its human rights activists puts everyone in the country at risk, and to behave accordingly.” ###
07.19.2016	NORTHAMPTON, MA – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) applauded the announcement today by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) that $23.4 million in grants were awarded to support 81 Distance Learning and Telemedicine projects in 32 states across the nation. Among the recipients was the Collaborative for Educational Services Inc., which was awarded $337,356 for their hub in Northampton. The hub services 23 field sites across Massachusetts and Maine. “Education is the ticket to a bright future and this funding will strengthen the work that Collaborative for Educational Services Inc. is already doing in Northampton and across Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “Our communities are strongest when everyone has the opportunity to get an education that will help them find good jobs and rewarding careers. I am grateful to Secretary Vilsack for recognizing the great work happening right here in Massachusetts and I look forward to seeing the incredible difference this grant will make in the lives of so many families.” The Collaborative for Educational Services (www.collaborative.org) is a non-profit based in Northampton, MA, the agency works to enhance educational opportunities for all learners and educators. The field sites across the two states work to improve their school services, instruction and schoolwide achievement. Angela Burke, Director of Technology at CES said, “This project leverages a telemedicine infrastructure to deliver distance learning technology that builds on the CES and regional history of collaboration, and offers integrated technology in the classroom to develop students’ 21st century skills in rural communities across five counties; as well as providing new access for teacher development, licensing and endorsement. The project has the potential to change the educational direction and open doors otherwise not available for the rural community residents involved.” This grant will be used to purchase video conference equipment for real time, synchronous lecture, learning, and educational collaboration, serving 22 K-12 public school sites in Franklin, Hampshire, Penobscot, Washington counties and one tribal site in Aroostook County. Since 1974, CES has worked directly with schools and districts to help them assess and improve their programs, train teachers to help them obtain licensure, increase their skills and develop expertise. The Collaborative also develops and provides alternative learning programs for student who are challenged by traditional settings. The Distance Learning and Telemedicine program helps rural communities acquire technologies to connect teachers and medical providers with other professionals and other needed expertise that would be too far to access otherwise. This program taps into modern telecommunications and technology to improve education and healthcare which are two imperative factors for economic and community development. USDA Rural Development has provided $213 million for 634 Distance Learning and Telemedicine projects in rural areas nationwide since 2009. USDA’s Rural Utilities Service, which administers the program, also offers infrastructure programs that bring broadband, safe drinking water and improved wastewater treatment facilities to rural communities. Since 2009, USDA Rural Development (@USDARD<image004.png>) has helped bring high-speed Internet access to nearly 6 million rural residents and businesses; invested $31.3 billion in 963 electric projects that have financed more than 185,000 miles of transmission and distribution lines serving 4.6 million rural residents; helped 1.1 million rural residents buy homes; and funded nearly 7,000 community facilities such as schools, public safety and health care facilities. USDA also has invested $11 billion to start or expand 103,000 rural businesses. For more information, visit www.usda.gov/results. Through a suite of community, business and housing programs, USDA Rural Development is committed to helping improve the economy and quality of life in rural America. Rural Development offers loans, grants and loan guarantees that support essential services associated with single and multi-family housing, economic development, health care, first responder services and equipment, water, as well as electric and communications infrastructure. ###
07.15.2016	Today, July 18th, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will kick off his third annual Summer Food Rocks Tour to highlight USDA's national Summer Food Service Program and how it helps ensure that low-income students in Massachusetts do not go hungry during the summer months when school is out of session. Today's tour includes visits to Athol, Turner Falls, Ware, Webster, and Worcester. Click here for information on the 2015 tour and 2014 tour. As part of Congressman McGovern’s third annual tour, he will lead today's roundtable with state and local leaders to talk about how the summer food program helps communities in need and visit summer meals sites at schools across the region. Joining Congressman McGovern on the day-long tour will be: Kevin Concannon, USDA Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Kurt Messner, USDA Northeast Regional Administrator Food and Nutrition Service Candice Stoiber, USDA Northeast Region Director Special Nutrition Programs Division, Food and Nutrition Service Rob Leshin, Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed. Acting Director of the Office for Nutrition Programs The USDA Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. This summer, USDA plans to serve more than 200 million free meals to children 18 years and under at approved SFSP sites. Full info on Monday’s tour is below: 7:45AM – 8:10AM in ATHOL WHO: Congressman McGovern; Julianna Valcour (MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed); and Orange School Committee Leaders WHAT: Congressman Assists With Breakfast Service to Students WHERE: Athol High School, 2363 Main Street, Athol 8:40AM – 9:15AM in TURNERS FALLS WHO: Congressman McGovern; Julianna Valcour (MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed); and Gill and Montague Regional School Leaders WHAT: Congressman Assists With Breakfast Service to Students WHERE: Unity Park, 7 First Street, Turners Falls 10:10AM – 11:15AM in WARE WHO: Congressman McGovern; Ellen Parker (Project Bread Executive Director); Julie Wayman (Project Bread Child Nutrition Outreach Director); Christina Maxwell (Food Bank of Western Massachusetts Programs Director); Abby Getman (Food Bank of Western Massachusetts Planning and Advocacy Coordinator); Simca Hoorwitz (Eastern Massachusetts Director of the Massachusetts Farm to School); Ware Town Administrator Stuart Beckley; MA State Senator Anne Gobi WHAT: Summer Food Rocks Tour Roundtable Discussion WHERE: Ware Junior and Senior High School, 237 West Street, Ware 11:15AM – 11:45AM in WARE WHO: Congressman McGovern; Amy Socolow (Summer Food Service Consultant – MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed.); MA State Senator Anne Gobi, Ware Town Administrator Stuart Beckley; and Ware School Committee Leaders; WHAT: Congressman Assists With Lunch Service to Students WHERE: Kaziol Elementary School, 4 Gould Road, Ware 12:35PM – 1:00PM in WEBSTER WHO: Congressman McGovern, Amy Socolow (Summer Food Service Consultant – MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed.); MA State Rep. Joseph McKenna; and Webster School Committee WHAT: Congressman Assists With Lunch Service to Students WHERE: Park Avenue Elementary School, 58 Park Avenue, Webster 2:30PM – 2:45PM in WORCESTER WHO: Congressman McGovern; Donna Lombardi (Worcester Public Schools Director of Nutrition); Jean McMurray (Worcester County Food Bank Executive Director); Liz Sheehan Castro (Worcester County Food Bank Director of Advocacy); Martha Assefa (Worcester Food and Active Living Policy Council); and Frances Canning (MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed. Review Coordinator for Special Nutrition Programs) WHAT: Congressman Assists With Lunch Service to Students WHERE: Burncoat Preparatory School Playground, 526 Burncoat Street, Worcester 3:25PM – 4:00PM in WORCESTER WHO: Congressman McGovern; Frances Canning (MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Ed. Review Coordinator for Special Nutrition Programs); Jean McMurray (Worcester County Food Bank Executive Director); Liz Sheehan Castro (Worcester County Food Bank Advocacy Director); and Martha Assefa (Worcester Food and Active Living Policy Council) WHAT: Congressman Assists With Lunch Service to Students WHERE: Girls Inc., 125 Providence Street, Worcester ###
07.14.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a leading voice in Congress calling for strong GMO labeling, spoke on the House floor to urge the defeat of S. 764, a bill that House Republicans claim creates mandatory GMO labeling, but falls far short of the transparency American consumers deserve. Click here for video of today’s speech. “This bill is a prime example of why the American people are so frustrated with Congress. This is a deeply, deeply flawed bill. We’re told that this is a mandatory GMO labeling bill, but the truth is, not really. This bill is a deception. “When people think of labels, they expect something that is easily identifiable. That is clear like a written label. That’s not a controversial idea. This calls for a “quick response” code, whatever that may be that is confusing and can only be accessed using a smartphone and internet access. Never mind that many Americans don’t have smartphones and many supermarkets don’t even get service, thereby making it impossible to get information on GMOs and keeping consumers in the dark about what’s in their food. “Let’s be honest. This is exactly what some in big industry want. They want people to be confused. They don’t want people to have access to information. And when big industry speaks, Congress not only listens, Congress rolls over and gives big industry whatever it wants. “Let’s be clear about another thing. This debate is not about the science regarding GMOs. It’s not about whether you love GMOs or hate GMOs. I consume GMOs. My kids consume GMOs. But I still believe that every consumer is entitled to know whether the food they buy contains GMOs. That’s what this debate is about. It is about transparency. “And for those who think this ends the debate, that this is it, I have a prediction: You’re wrong. People are going to continue to fight to demand clear mandatory GMO labeling. They have a right to know what is in their food. “The overwhelming majority of the American people – Democrats and Republicans – all favor clear mandatory GMO labeling. I got a radical idea, why don’t we give them what they want? “Why don’t we just put it on the package? It doesn’t cost any more. The idea that this is an effort that will raise food prices is ridiculous. This convoluted, complicated labeling system outlined in this bill, if that’s not going to raise food prices, then a simple and plain English listing on food that says this contains GMOs will certainly not raise food prices. “Sooner or later, we’re going to get clear mandatory GMO labeling. I prefer sooner and therefore I urge my colleagues to reject this bill. Let’s give the American consumer what they want.” Click here for video of today’s speech. ###
07.13.2016	Today on the House floor, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led debate for House Democrats against S. 764, a bill that would allow food companies to meet GMO labeling requirements by using “quick response” or QR codes to identify products that contain GMOs. McGovern called such a label confusing and complicated, saying that a clear symbol or text would be the best option for consumers. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress calling for strong GMO labeling. In July 2015, McGovern called for the defeat of previous legislation that would fall short of the transparency needed for American consumers to make informed choices about the food they buy. Click here for video of today’s speech. Excerpts of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “Every American has a fundamental right to know what’s in the food they eat. Plain and simple. I believe they ought to have that right and that’s what today’s debate is about. Whether you love GMOs or hate them, we should all agree that you ought to know if they are in the food you’re feeding your family and your children. “This legislation provides three options for labeling: words on the package – which makes sense, a symbol to be developed by USDA – which makes sense, but then there’s this – a so-called “Quick response” or QR code. It was at the behest of big industry that the QR code be listed as an option. Not what’s in the interest of the American consumer, but what a few special interests want. “In order to access the information through the QR code, an individual must have a smartphone and must have access to the internet. The reality is that not every American has access to a smartphone or the internet. “One-in-five Americans in the U.S. does not have smartphones. That includes 50 percent of Americans who are low-income and living in rural areas, and over 65 percent of elderly Americans. If we end up going down the route of a QR code, all of these people will be prevented from accessing the information that this bill is supposed to make available to all consumers. And even if someone has a smartphone, they will have to scan every single item they purchase in order to obtain the desired information, and this is assuming they will have access to the internet in the grocery store. That’s anything but a quick response. “It is a bad idea. It is a bad idea. It is an intentional measure to deny consumers information. We considered what we called the DARK Act on the House floor a few months ago. This is the son of the DARK Act. It keeps people in the dark about what’s in the food that they’re buying. “The debate about GMO labeling is about transparency and the right of every American to know what’s in the food they eat. It’s very simple. The best approach would be a clear and easy-to-understand label or symbol, not some crazy QR code that only creates more hassle and confusion. “The majority of Americans favor mandatory GMO labels that are clear, straightforward, and easy to understand. “Wouldn’t it be nice if – I know this is a radical idea in this Congress – but wouldn’t it be nice if for once – this Congress actually did what the American people want? “Keeping our constituents in the dark should not be tolerated and this bill should be soundly defeated by Democrats and Republicans alike. Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “This week, instead of addressing the pressing issues I previously mentioned, the House will be voting on a weak, a very, very weak GMO labeling bill and yet another piece of legislation that attacks a woman’s right to choose. “Every American has a fundamental right to know what’s in the food they eat. Plain and simple. I believe they ought to have that right and that’s what today’s debate is about. “To be clear, today’s debate is not about the science behind GMOs. It’s also not about whether GMOs are good or bad. Whether you love GMOs or hate them, we should all agree that you ought to know if they are in the food you’re feeding your family and your children. “The Food and Drug Administration requires labeling of thousands of ingredients, additives and processes, many of which have nothing to do with safety or nutrition. For example, the FDA requires mandatory labeling of juice when it’s from concentrate. It’s just one of the ways we tell people what’s in their food and how it’s made. “This piece of legislation would require companies to label their products if they contain GMOs and I strongly support that sentiment. But this legislation provides three options for labeling: words on the package – which makes sense, a symbol to be developed by USDA – which makes sense, but then there’s this – a so-called “Quick response” or QR code. It was at the behest of big industry that the QR code be listed as an option. Not what’s in the interest of the American consumer, but what a few special interests want. “Now, I would be much more comfortable with a bill that requires either words or a symbol, but a QR code is something that I cannot support and nobody here should support that. In order to access the information through the QR code, an individual must have a smartphone and must have access to the internet. The reality is that not every American has access to a smartphone or the internet. “Look, I don’t get reception at a local grocery store here in D.C. – just a couple blocks from where we are here in the Capitol. It’s frustrating. What good would a QR code do if I can’t get a data signal using my phone? “One-in-five Americans in the U.S. does not have smartphones. That includes 50 percent of Americans who are low-income and living in rural areas, and over 65 percent of elderly Americans. If we end up going down the route of a QR code, all of these people will be prevented from accessing the information that this bill is supposed to make available to all consumers. And even if someone has a smartphone, they will have to scan every single item they purchase in order to obtain the desired information, and this is assuming they will have access to the internet in the grocery store. That’s anything but a quick response. “It is a bad idea. It is a bad idea. It is an intentional measure to deny consumers information. We considered what we called the DARK Act on the House floor a few months ago. This is the son of the DARK Act. It keeps people in the dark about what’s in the food that they’re buying. “The debate about GMO labeling is about transparency and the right of every American to know what’s in the food they eat. It’s very simple. The best approach would be a clear and easy-to-understand label or symbol, not some crazy QR code that only creates more hassle and confusion. “From the very beginning of the debate about GMO labeling, some in the food industry have stuck to two main arguments. They have said that GMO’s are perfectly safe and that it would cost far too much for them to add a symbol or words to their packaging. But, once they came up with the idea to put a large QR code on their packaging that they hope consumers will just simply ignore or not be able to access, they suddenly dropped their complaints about the financial cost of changing their package. “The truth is that the QR code will take up more space on their packaging than any symbol or simple written label would and the QR code is going to have to include wording as well. It would be so much easier and better for consumers for the food industry to just use wording or a symbol and not this complicated, confusing QR code. “And we know that food companies change labels on their products all the time. Jerry Greenfield of Ben and Jerry’s Ice Cream said that it is a normal cost of business to change their packaging. Campbell’s Soup has committed to including words on their packaging and has said that in doing this there will not be an increase in food prices. I want to thank Campbell’s as well as Mars and Dannon for all committing to using words on their label, and not some kind of confusing QR code. “The majority of Americans favor mandatory GMO labels that are clear, straightforward, and easy to understand. “Wouldn’t it be nice if – I know this is a radical idea in this Congress – but wouldn’t it be nice if for once – this Congress actually did what the American people want? “Keeping our constituents in the dark should not be tolerated and this bill should be soundly defeated by Democrats and Republicans alike.” ###
07.13.2016	Today on the House floor, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led debate for House Democrats against H.R. 4828, the Conscience Protection Act, a bill that would allow medical providers to withhold information from female patients if they believe it would lead to an abortion. Click here for video of today’s speech. Excerpts of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “We are considering H.R. 4828, the so-called Conscience Protection Act, which ironically is yet another unconscionable attempt to take away women’s right to healthcare. “Under current law, hospitals and other healthcare providers can already refuse service to an individual based on the practitioner’s own moral objection. But this legislation would take this a step further and actually permit the withholding of medical information about a patient’s condition if the physician believes that such information could potentially lead to an abortion. “Bosses would be permitted to impose their own religious beliefs across their entire company by withholding abortion services on employer-sponsored health plans. It is not an employer’s decision what type of medical care is needed by their employees. Woman have the same rights to access to health care as men do, and no boss should be able to deny them that right. “This will be the House Republicans’ 13th vote to attack women’s health care in this Congress alone. Thirteen times we have gone down a similar road. How can we possibly consider a bill that would allow insurance companies, doctors, or health care facilities to substitute their own religious opinion for actual medical information? Every woman should be able to trust that when they go to their doctor, they are receiving all the facts and information that they need to make their own health decisions. “Encouraging doctors to withhold vital information from women about their health is outrageous and incredibly dangerous. Such a reckless bill has no place in Congress. This bill is nothing more than the latest attempt by House Republicans to appeal to their extreme right-wing base. “This legislation does not include any exemption in the case of rape, incest, or endangering the life of the woman, and would preempt any state law that does allow for the coverage of abortion. “Women’s health must always come first and this only puts more lives at risk. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle not to support it.” Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “We are also considering a totally unrelated bill H.R. 4828, the so-called Conscience Protection Act, which ironically is yet another unconscionable attempt to take away women’s right to healthcare. “Under current law, hospitals and other healthcare providers can already refuse service to an individual based on the practitioner’s own moral objection. But this legislation would take this a step further and actually permit the withholding of medical information about a patient’s condition if the physician believes that such information could potentially lead to an abortion. “Bosses would be permitted to impose their own religious beliefs across their entire company by withholding abortion services on employer-sponsored health plans. It is not an employer’s decision what type of medical care is needed by their employees. Woman have the same rights to access to health care as men do, and no boss should be able to deny them that right. “This will be the House Republicans’ 13th vote to attack women’s health care in this Congress alone. Thirteen times we have gone down a similar road. How can we possibly consider a bill that would allow insurance companies, doctors, or health care facilities to substitute their own religious opinion for actual medical information? Every woman should be able to trust that when they go to their doctor, they are receiving all the facts and information that they need to make their own health decisions. “Encouraging doctors to withhold vital information from women about their health is outrageous and incredibly dangerous. Such a reckless bill has no place in Congress. This bill is nothing more than the latest attempt by House Republicans to appeal to their extreme right-wing base. “This legislation does not include any exemption in the case of rape, incest, or endangering the life of the woman, and would preempt any state law that does allow for the coverage of abortion. “We have countless women sharing their stories of how these types of laws have had devastating and tragic effects on them. One woman’s water broke at 20 weeks prematurely, and doctors determined that the fetus would not survive birth. The Catholic Hospital she was at refused to perform an abortion since the fetus still had a heartbeat. For seven weeks, this woman had to carry a fetus in her, with the knowledge that it had no chance of survival. It wasn’t until she was suffering from severe hemorrhaging that a hospital would finally induce labor, the baby died almost immediately after birth, as doctors expected. “Another woman’s water broke prematurely at 18 weeks. She rushed to the nearest hospital, which was a Catholic hospital. Doctors knew that the fetus was no longer viable and would die immediately upon birth, however this information was withheld from the woman, she was simply given two Tylenol and sent home unaware that there was no chance that her child would survive birth. The woman returned twice more, each time with severe bleeding and it was only at the end of the second visit as they were sending her home, she went into labor and gave birth. They baby died within hours, as the doctors expected. “Women’s health must always come first and this only puts more lives at risk. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle not to support it.” ###
07.06.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in the push for stronger Congressional oversight of U.S. military engagement abroad, released the following statement on today’s announcement by President Obama on Afghanistan. “Today, the longest war in American history just got longer. I am deeply disappointed with the president’s announcement that the U.S. will not be reducing our troop levels in Afghanistan to 5,500 as promised and will instead maintain approximately 8,400 there. This is a step in the wrong direction. “I agree with President Obama that the only way to end this conflict is through a lasting political settlement, but continuing America’s military presence in Afghanistan is not the answer. “We are engaged in what appears to be an endless war, with no strategy about how to end the conflict and disengage our troops from the region. Our mission in Afghanistan lacks the clarity that the American people and our brave men and women in uniform deserve. I am disappointed that after 14 years of war, we are talking about continuing our military presence there instead of finding the political solution that is so desperately needed. “Congress has a responsibility to exercise strong oversight of the wars our country is engaged in, but instead of doing its duty, Congress has refused to review this war and refused to vote on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force that clearly defines the current mission and ensures that there is a clear strategy for withdrawal. We cannot wait any longer. “As long as Congress sits on the sidelines, there will be no end to U.S. involvement in Afghanistan. This is unacceptable not only for our national security, but for our brave men and women in uniform and their families. They deserve better and I will continue to help make their voices heard and call for us to finally end this endless war.” ###
07.06.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded today’s announcement by the President Obama that his administration is taking more action to address the opioid epidemic in Massachusetts and across the country and that they are calling for $1.1 billion in new funding to support this effort. McGovern praised the proposal by President Obama, which would make Massachusetts eligible for up to $20 million in new funding over two years to expand access to treatment for opioid use disorders. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in the call for stronger funding to tackle the opioid epidemic. Today’s call comes as Congress moves to conference on legislation that would support grant programs to address the prescription opioid and heroin epidemic. “Our families and communities in Massachusetts need a strong bipartisan response to the opioid epidemic and that is exactly what President Obama is calling for,” Congressman McGovern said. “Congress has a responsibility to do all it can to confront this crisis and this $1.1 billion proposal would help to expand access to treatment, strengthen prescription drug monitoring, enable safe disposal of unneeded drugs, and increase much-needed research on pain and opioid misuse and overdose. “In the past year, I have worked tirelessly to make sure the voices of Massachusetts families are heard in Washington, co-sponsoring three different bills and joining my House Colleagues to call on Administration officials to ensure all of our communities are receiving the federal funds needed to address this crisis,” McGovern added. “We must do all we can to ensure that treatment is available to those who seek it. Prevention and treatment must be at the heart of our approach. Congress must embrace a smart and comprehensive approach to help all of the families and communities touched by the opioid epidemic. This is a national priority and under-funding this fight is not an option.” Click Here to read about the action the White House is already taking to address the opioid epidemic. ###
07.05.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led today’s floor debate for House Democrats calling for action on real legislation to address gun violence. This came less than two weeks after Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans abruptly adjourned the House to avoid the debate on gun legislation that Congressman McGovern and House Democrats were calling for with a nearly 26 hour sit-in on the House floor. Click here for video of today’s speech. Today, Congressman McGovern continued the push for action and called out House Republicans for pushing a bill written by the NRA instead of the bipartisan legislation the American people clearly support. “The American people overwhelmingly support the No Fly, No Buy bill and universal background checks. And they’re not going to fall for the theatrics my Republican friends are now engaged in this week, which is to bring up an NRA-written bill which they’re going to say is No Fly, No Buy. But what they’re not going to tell you is that all the loopholes still exist. “It doesn’t matter what this bill purports to do, you can still be on the terrorist watch list and go online to buy a gun. You can still be on the terrorist watch list and not be able to fly, and still be able to go to a gun show and buy a gun. It’s pathetic that the loopholes in our background checks continue to be unaddressed. “We are not going away. This issue is too important. We are not going to be silent. We are going to continue to use every means available to us to raise our voices and to demand that the leadership of this House respect not the wishes of the Democratic minority, but respect the wishes of the vast majority of the American people, Democrats and Republicans alike.” Click here for video of today’s speech. Text of Today’s Speech by Congressman McGovern: “I want to thank the gentleman from Texas, Mr. Sessions, for the customary 30 minutes and I really want to thank him because after what happened two weeks ago when we in the minority were denied any debate time on the rule or the underlying bill, I know that being given the automatic 30 minutes is no longer something that we should assume. “We’re doing three rules today that would provide for the consideration of legislation on a separation of powers bill, a health savings account bill, and a financial services bill. All three bills, I want my colleagues to know, are going nowhere. There are statements of Administration policy saying that the Administration would veto them. “Some of these bills are so bad I’m not even sure the Senate would consider them. They’re either press releases that were written in the Republican congressional campaign committee or they are bills that are so loaded up with extraneous materials and riders on all kinds of subjects that have nothing to do with the underlying legislation that, again, we’re just sitting here, debating bills that have no future, that are going nowhere. We’re wasting the time of our colleagues, we’re wasting taxpayer money. “What we should be debating here today is legislation that would provide for comprehensive background checks on anyone who wants to buy a gun. And also legislation that says if you are on an FBI terrorist watch list and cannot fly on an airplane, then you should not be able to go into a gun store and buy a weapon of war, or buy any gun for that matter. Those are the two pieces of legislation that we tried two weeks ago to get the Speaker of the House to give us a debate and vote on. And we still demand consideration of these two very basic, commonsense pieces of legislation that I believe will save lives in this country. And quite frankly, that’s what we should be concerned with. How we better protect our constituents. How we better protect the American people. “The issue of gun violence is something that Democrats and Republicans alike care about. In fact, the legislation we want to bring to the floor was offered by a Republican member, the distinguished member from New York, Peter King. He’s the prime author of both these pieces of legislation. This problem is something that worries the American people, trouble the American people, but doesn’t seem to trouble the people in charge of this House. “Listen to this statistic from PolitiFact: ‘So many people die annually from gunfire in the United States that the death toll between 1968 and 2011 eclipses all wars ever fought by the country. There were about 1.4 million firearm deaths in that period compared to 1.2 million U.S. deaths in every conflict from the War of Independence to the war in Iraq.’ “Two weeks ago, many of us came to this floor and joined with our colleague John Lewis and Katherine Clark, John Larson, Mike Thompson, and so many others in a protest, a sit-in. And the reason why we did that is because the frustration level on this side of the aisle is boiling over. “This is supposed to be a deliberative body where important issues get debated and voted on. And instead, this has become a place where trivial issues get debated passionately and important ones not at all. “In the aftermath of this terrible tragedy in Orlando where 49 people were killed, all we could do in this House was have a moment of silence. That was it. So that’s what that protest was all about. That’s what that protest was all about. We had exhausted every other way to try to get this legislation to the floor. And every time we tried to go through regular order we’re blocked, we’re blocked, we’re blocked. Enough. “The American people overwhelmingly support the No Fly, No Buy bill and universal background checks. And they’re not going to fall for the theatrics my Republican friends are now engaged in this week, which is to bring up an NRA-written bill which they’re going to say is No Fly, No Buy. But what they’re not going to tell you is that all the loopholes still exist. “It doesn’t matter what this bill purports to do, you can still be on the terrorist watch list and go online to buy a gun. You can still be on the terrorist watch list and not be able to fly, and still be able to go to a gun show and buy a gun. It’s pathetic that the loopholes in our background checks continue to be unaddressed. “All we’re trying to do is have our moment where we can debate this issue which, again, is a bipartisan issue. It’s not a partisan issue. The two pieces of legislation that we are trying to bring to the floor are offered by a Republican member. “So we are not going away. This issue is too important. We are not going to be silent. We are going to continue to use every means available to us to raise our voices and to demand that the leadership of this House respect not the wishes of the Democratic minority, but respect the wishes of the vast majority of the American people, Democrats and Republicans alike.” ###
06.30.2016	HADLEY, MA – Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) announced today that the University of Massachusetts Donahue Institute has been awarded a new contract from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) Office of Adolescent Health (OAH) for Providing Capacity Building Assistance to OAH Teen Pregnancy Prevention Grantees. UMass was selected to be one of five national providers, each responsible for bringing their particular expertise to support grantees in five different priority areas. The grant to the Institute is for $3 million over five years. As a national provider of “Community Mobilization and Sustainability” capacity building assistance, the Institute will help 84 OAH grantees across the country to leverage their local community resources and adopt creative strategies for sustaining their programs both during and after their federal contract has ended. Assistance will be provided at local, regional, and national conferences and trainings, as well as through coaching, mentoring, peer-to-peer support, and an array of virtual learning approaches. “We have made tremendous progress in reducing teen pregnancy in the U.S. in recent years and it is now at an historic low. With this grant, UMass Donahue Institute will have the resources it needs to share its expertise and research with community programs doing amazing work in Massachusetts and across the country,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “I am proud to see the UMass Donahue Institute recognized for their leadership in this field and look forward to seeing all the good they will do to strengthen teen pregnancy prevention programs that help our youth stay healthy and reach their full potential.” “We are proud of this award to the University of Massachusetts. It is significant that twice in only eight months the UMass Donahue Institute has been recognized by a federal agency for its expertise and the training and technical assistance it can provide to vital social service programs not just here in Massachusetts, but across the country,” UMass President Marty Meehan said. The other four national providers offering selected expertise include: Engender Health, New York (Program Implementation), The Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles (Safe and Supportive Environments), Regents of the University of Michigan (Linkages and Referrals to Youth-Friendly Health Care Services), and Youth Catalytics, Vermont/Washington D.C. (Communication and Dissemination). According to Sharon Vardatira, director of the Nonprofit Funding and Fiscal Solutions group at UMass Donahue Institute, which will provide the assistance to grantees, “One of the biggest challenges for OAH grantees, and nonprofits generally, is how to keep critical programs going after the funding ends. So being able to help programs develop their ‘long game’ and rally their communities is everything.” The Nonprofit Funding & Fiscal Solutions group at UMass Donahue Institute provides customized consultation, coaching/mentoring, and hands-on intervention designed to help sustain and strengthen non-profit organizations. The University of Massachusetts Donahue Institute is the public service, outreach, and economic development group of the University of Massachusetts President's Office. Established in 1971, the Institute brings the resources of the University to bear on its clients, bridging theory and innovation with real world public and private sector applications. For more information, www.donahue.umassp.edu. ###
06.27.2016	Today, Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Bill Johnson (R-OH) led a bipartisan group of 24 House lawmakers calling on Secretary John Kerry to continue U.S. efforts to strengthen human rights in Sri Lanka following a 26-year civil war between Sri Lankan government forces and the Tamil population. The bipartisan call comes ahead of a report this week to the U.N. Human Rights Council on progress toward implementing Resolution 30/1, a landmark measure that was adopted by the Council in October 2015 and aimed at promoting reconciliation, accountability, and human rights in Sri Lanka. “We urge you to remain engaged on the implementation of Resolution 30/1, and to increase U.S. public and private messages to Sri Lanka that encourage and press the Government of Sri Lanka to take the difficult steps required to honor its commitment to ensure peace and security for all the island’s communities,” Congressman McGovern and the bipartisan group of 24 lawmakers wrote in the letter. “The U.S. should continue to provide Sri Lanka with the technical and capacity-building support it needs to successfully implement the provisions of Resolution 30/1. “At the same, we urge that the U.S. make clear that additional funding, trade and military-to-military incentives are dependent upon substantial and sustained implementation of the resolution’s requirements and credible advances in the areas of transitional justice, ending impunity, military and security sector reform, rule of law, and addressing the concerns of the Tamil people set forth in Resolution 30/1,” the lawmakers added. “We do not underestimate the difficulties faced by the Sri Lankan government in carrying out these reforms. We firmly believe, however, that U.S. and international attention and encouragement have been crucial to any progress accomplished to date, both during the U.N. Human Rights Council process and afterwards,” the lawmakers concluded. “We therefore ask that the U.S. sustain its substantial role in ensuring a credible post-war process for Sri Lanka. It is the only way forward and ensuring a lasting peace and a prosperous future all the people of Sri Lanka.” Click here to view the letter online. In addition to Congressmen McGovern and Johnson, the letter to Secretary Kerry was signed by Representatives Danny Davis (D-IL), Steve Stivers (R-OH), Richard Neal (D-MA), Leonard Lance (R-NJ), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), Bill Keating (D-MA), Daniel Donovan, Jr. (R-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Brad Wenstrup (R-OH), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Steve Chabot (R-OH), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Stephen Knight (R-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Katherine Clark (D-MA), and John Delaney (D-MD). Full text of the bipartisan letter is below: June 27, 2016 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Kerry, As you well know, the United States, and especially the State Department, has played a critical role in promoting human rights, accountability and reconciliation in Sri Lanka, including the passage of last year’s landmark resolution – Resolution 30/1 – at the U.N. Human Rights Council. On June 29th, the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein will report to the Council on progress toward implementing the resolution. We urge you to remain engaged on the implementation of Resolution 30/1, and to increase U.S. public and private messages to Sri Lanka that encourage and press the Government of Sri Lanka to take the difficult steps required to honor its commitment to ensure peace and security for all the island’s communities. The U.S. should continue to provide Sri Lanka with the technical and capacity-building support it needs to successfully implement the provisions of Resolution 30/1. At the same, we urge that the U.S. make clear that additional funding, trade and military-to-military incentives are dependent upon substantial and sustained implementation of the resolution’s requirements and credible advances in the areas of transitional justice, ending impunity, military and security sector reform, rule of law, and addressing the concerns of the Tamil people set forth in Resolution 30/1. Adoption of Resolution 30/1 in October 2015 was a major achievement and an important milestone in Sri Lanka’s journey toward lasting peace and a just settlement of its decades-old ethnic conflict. President Maithripala Sirisena and Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe displayed admirable political courage in working with Council members and negotiating a consensus resolution that contains many of the elements needed for a sustainable peace. We anticipate High Commissioner Zeid will acknowledge progress that has been made, such as the return of some land to civilians, the drafting of a new constitution and an ambitious reform agenda. However, progress in implementing Resolution 30/1 had been slow and often grudging, and there are growing doubts about the government’s political will and ability to see the complex process through. In particular, we ask that the U.S. government remain significantly engaged in the following: Transitional Justice and Accountability. There has been only halting efforts made in developing the four transitional justice mechanisms pledged by the Sri Lankan government to the UNHRC – a truth commission, reparations, a missing persons’ office, and an independent special court for war crimes with international participation. Successful implementation of these mechanisms is central to the success of the government’s larger agenda to promote good governance and rule of law. While an Office of Missing Persons (OMP) has been approved by the Cabinet and the parliament to help thousands of families seeking information about relatives missing during the civil war, it lacks any effective link to criminal investigations and, thus, maintains impunity for large-scale enforced disappearances. The design of the OMP also lacked genuine consultation with victims’ families, undermining confidence among victims’ groups and civil society. Last month, in a welcome move, the Sri Lankan government ratified the U.N. Convention on Disappearance, but this will have little meaning if genuine consultation with victims continues to be ignored and if the government remains unwilling or unable to prosecute cases of forced abduction and murder, for which they already have substantial evidence. Meaningful Consultation with Victims. As noted above, genuine consultation with victims on the Office of Missing Persons failed to occur prior to its design approval by the parliament. Meaningful consultation and inclusion of victims are essential to the credibility not just of the OMP, but for all of the justice and accountability mechanisms established under Resolution 30/1. Rule of Law, Witness and Victim Protection, and Legal Reform. Confidence is faltering in the government’s commitment to restore rule of law, a pledge that was central to Sirisena’s election. Investigating complex financial crimes and political killings under the former regime is difficult and dangerous work. There is increasing evidence that senior officials in the Attorney General’s department and in the military have blocked important criminal investigations. The government must take steps to dismiss or discipline such obstructionists and remove from policymaking roles officials undermining efforts to support justice and accountability. Credible reports indicate that witnesses in criminal cases implicating the security forces face serious threats. The government has yet to establish an effective witness protection program or revise its weak witness protection law, in compliance with provisions in Resolution 30/1. Repeal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) and the Public Security Ordinance Act. While adoption of some important legal and institutional reforms is said to be close – including legislation to replace the repressive Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) – recent actions by the government and security forces increase doubt about how real the commitment is to such reform. Recent arrests under the PTA have violated due process and reawakened fears of a return to “white van” abductions, which were a primary method used for hundreds of disappearances under the Rajapaksa regime. Further, detainees are still being held under the sweeping provision of the PTA law. Both Acts should be replaced with anti-terror legislation that comply for due process and with international law. However, the government should not wait for the repeal of the PTA before ending violations. For example, it should end abuses by the Terrorism Investigation Division (TID) of the police, which continues to detain suspects without charge, often holding them in abusive and humiliating ways, in contravention of procedures outlined by Sri Lanka’s own Human Rights Commission. Security Sector Reform. The government should initiate independent civilian oversight to disentangle the military, security, intelligence and police forces – with the express goal of ensuring the independence of police forces, reducing the role of the military in internal security matters, and making clear the distinct roles and chain of command in all branches of the security sector. Demilitarize the North and East. A comprehensive plan for security sector reform should also reduce the military’s social, political and economic footprint in the North and East, namely the Tamil and ethnic minority regions and areas of the civil war. The military should be returned to barracks and demobilized from this highly militarized region. The heavy military presence in these regions and the military’s continuing role in civilian and commercial activities perpetuate an atmosphere of fear and prevent the return to normal life. Such a plan should also include job training, re-employment programs and psycho-social support for demobilized soldiers. Many ex-soldiers are severely traumatized and caught in continued cycles of violence, in the home, on the street and as hired thugs for politicians and elites. Ethnic Issues and the Legacy of the War. While the president and senior officials have set a more conciliatory tone, in the past seven months, there has been little progress on the key issues of concern to the Tamils in the North and East reflected in the text of Resolution 30/1: the release of hundreds of detainees under the PTA, the return of land held by the military to Tamil and Muslim civilian owners, investigations into the tens of thousands of forcibly disappeared people, the safe return of the internally displaced (IDPs), and the removal of the military from civilian affairs in the North and East. Progress has been so slow and grudging that what were intended to be confidence-building measures have now become confidence-wakening measures. In addition, confidence has been damaged by the tight and often intimidating surveillance of Tamil civil society and activists by military and police, and by unwarranted arrests. The government’s inability to gain effective civilian control over the military affects its slow implementation of other Council commitments, which in turn undermines public confidence, especially among the Tamils, in the government’s political will to guarantee justice for all. Mr. Secretary, we do not underestimate the difficulties faced by the Sri Lankan government in carrying out these reforms. We firmly believe, however, that U.S. and international attention and encouragement have been crucial to any progress accomplished to date, both during the U.N. Human Rights Council process and afterwards. We therefore ask that the U.S. sustain its substantial role in ensuring a credible post-war process for Sri Lanka. It is the only way forward and ensuring a lasting peace and a prosperous future all the people of Sri Lanka. Sincerely, ###
06.23.2016	Members of the United States Senate and House of Representatives, led by Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) and Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA), released a statement yesterday, on the day that would have been MP Jo Cox’s 42nd birthday, expressing sadness at her brutal killing and warning against the fear, hate, and divisive rhetoric in our society today. This comes on the heels of a global statement expressing similar sentiments signed by more than 1500 Parliamentarians from 40 countries. In the statement from Congressman McGovern – co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission – and other U.S. lawmakers, they remember that MP Jo Cox was a lifelong campaigner who fought for tolerance and celebrated diversity. They state that “we stand united” for these values “and ideals that bolster our respective democracies.” This coincides with a global series of events taking place this week under the #MoreInCommon hashtag and banner. At these events, people gathered together to celebrate Jo's life, her passion and her belief in the humanity of every person in every place, from her constituency of Batley and Spen to Aleppo and Darayya and Washington D.C. STATEMENT BY U.S. MEMBERS OF CONGRESS REGARDING UK MP JO COX: “Last week, the life of UK MP Jo Cox was brutally and senselessly snatched away. We are deeply saddened for the family of Jo Cox and for the people of the United Kingdom. Beyond politics and parties, we must as societies stand together to stem the poisonous rising tide of fear and hate that breeds division and extremism. MP Cox was a lifelong campaigner against injustice who with open arms celebrated tolerance and diversity. At the core of our representative democracies is the ability of elected officials and their constituents to come together and discuss the issues of the day. MP Cox was a wife and mother to young children, a rising star in her party, and only recently elected to the House of Commons. We stand united for tolerance and diversity and the shared values and ideals that bolster our respective democracies.” FULL LIST OF U.S. LAWMAKERS SIGNING STATEMENT: Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-Maryland) Rep. James P. McGovern (D-2nd Massachusetts) Senator Patrick J. Leahy (D-Vermont) Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-New Hampshire) Senator Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey) Senator Christopher S. Murphy (D-Connecticut) Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Massachusetts) Senator Tim Kaine (D-Virginia) Senator Amy Klobuchar (-Minnesota) Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut) Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Maryland) Rep. Michael E. Capuano (D-7th Massachusetts) Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-20th Florida) Rep. Diana DeGette (D-1st Colorado) Rep. Alan Grayson (D-9th Florida) Rep. Madeleine Z. Bordallo (D-1st Guam) Rep. Adam B. Schiff ( D-28th California) Rep. Steve Cohen (D-9th Tennessee) Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-8th New York) Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-9th Ohio) Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-18th Texas) Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-9th Illinois) Rep Jim McDermott (D-7th Washington) Rep. Doris Matsui (D-6th California) Rep. David E. Price (D-4th North Carolina) Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-18th New York) Rep. Nita Lowey (D-17th New York) Rep. Cedric Richmond (D-2nd Louisiana) Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-11th Virginia) Rep. Brad Ashford (D-2nd Nebraska) Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-7th Arizona) Rep. Frederica S. Wilson (D-24th Florida). Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-1st Maine) Rep. Paul D. Tonko (D-20th New York) Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-1st Rhode Island) Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-13th Michigan) Rep. David Scott (D-13th Georgia) Rep. John K. Delaney (D-6th Maryland) Rep. Elizabeth H. Esty (D-5th Connecticut) Rep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson (D-4th Georgia) Rep. Stephen F. Lynch (D-8th Massachusetts) Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (D-13th Pennsylvania) Rep. Donna F. Edwards (D-4th Maryland) Rep. Tony Cárdenas (D-29th California) Rep. Barbara Lee (D-13th California) Rep. Charles B. Rangel (D-13th New York) Rep. William R. Keating (D-9th Massachusetts) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-47th California) Rep. John Yarmuth (D-3rd-Kentucky) Rep. Gene Green (D-29th Texas) Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-12th Michigan) House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (D-5th Maryland) Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-4th Illinois) Rep. Adam Smith (D-9th Washington) Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-16th New York) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-3rd Oregon) Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-7th Maryland) Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-30th Texas) Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-3rd Massachusetts) Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-12th New Jersey) Rep. Joe Crowley (D-14th New York) Rep. Keith Ellison (D- 5th Minnesota) Rep. Michael M. Honda (D-17th California) Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-7th Illinois) Rep. Mark Pocan (D-2nd Wisconsin) Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney (D-12th New York) Rep. Sander M. Levin (D-9th Michigan) Rep. Jared Huffman (D-2nd California) Rep. Betty McCollum (D-4th Minnesota) Rep. Steve Israel (D-3rd New York) Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-11th California) Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-17th Pennsylvania) Rep Sam Farr (D-20th California) Rep. Dan Kildee (D-5th Michigan) Rep. Juan Vargas (D 51st California) Rep. James R. Langevin (D-2nd Rhode Island) Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-8th Maryland) Rep. Norma J. Torres (D-35th California) Rep. Seth Moulton (D-6th Massachusetts) Rep. Lois Frankel (D-22nd Florida) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-19th California) ###
06.23.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement on the Colombia Bilateral Ceasefire signing expected to take place in Havana, Cuba tomorrow. “Today’s historic signing of a bilateral cease-fire between the Colombian government and the FARC guerrillas brings Colombia to the brink of concluding negotiations on a final peace accord. After over a half-century of conflict and suffering, which has scarred nearly every family in Colombia, peace is no longer a fantasy, but an imminent reality. Today’s announcement represents the commitment, hard work and patience of not only the government and guerrilla negotiators and their teams in Havana, but many people in Colombia and beyond, who persisted in the belief that a political solution is possible. I also want to acknowledge the invaluable contributions of Cuba and Norway in the negotiating process and my support for the U.N. verification mission in its upcoming difficult job. “When negotiations are concluded and the Colombian peace accord finally signed, the United States and the international community must commit to providing funding and support to carry out the agreement over the immediate and long-term. We must be generous and demonstrate that we will stand with the Colombian people to help them in their journey to achieve reconciliation, development and a just and lasting peace.” ###
06.22.2016	In the wake of the horrific act of hate and terror in Orlando last week, the deadliest mass shooting in American history, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) today joined House Democrats’ sit-in on the House Floor to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. “Americans deserve a Congress that will finally debate and vote on commonsense legislation to stop gun violence. Orlando was just the latest mass shooting and it breaks my heart to say it probably won’t be the last,” Congressman McGovern said. “We must not leave the Capitol without taking action to prevent the next tragedy. “Congress has sadly become a place where trivial issues get debated passionately and important ones not at all. Today, Speaker Ryan scheduled a vote to weaken the Affordable Care Act for the 62nd time. It's pathetic. We should find the time to debate legislation that could actually save lives,” McGovern added. “This is a moment of truth. We can no longer remain silent as gun violence continues to ravage so many communities across the country. I am proud to join Congressman John Lewis, my fellow members of the Massachusetts delegation, and Democrats from both the House and Senate today to say to Speaker Ryan and House Republicans enough is enough,” McGovern concluded. “Let the People’s House vote on commonsense gun violence prevention legislation that is overwhelmingly supported by the American people. We will not rest until Congress shows the courage to act to strengthen background checks and keep guns out of the hands of criminals and suspected terrorists.” For photos and live updates, follow Congressman McGovern’s Twitter and on C-SPAN. House Democrats are calling on Speaker Ryan and House Republicans to allow an immediate vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands, with two bills: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background checks system; The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 13 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation. MORE PHOTOS ###
06.15.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) called out House Republicans this week for refusing to take action to pass commonsense legislation to address gun violence in the wake of the tragic shooting in Orlando this past weekend. This followed an outcry by Democrats on the House floor on Monday, June 13th, after Republicans held a moment of silence and refused to answer questions from House Democrats about bringing up gun legislation. Congressman McGovern said these moments of silence are “becoming an empty gesture,” adding “It’s not enough. It’s time for action.” Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s speech on the House floor. “We stood here and for 10 seconds we had a moment of silence,” said Congressman McGovern, adding “Is that it? What about legislation? What about action to prevent these types of tragedies from happening in the future?” Congressman McGovern called for the House to take up legislation to (1) stop people on the FBI’s No-Fly list from being able to buy guns, (2) ban assault weapons like the ones used in Orlando and other mass shootings, and (3) prevent people convicted of hate crimes from being able to buy a gun. “We have been here on this floor calling for moments of silence after terrible tragedies like the one in Orlando again and again and again and again. It’s not enough,” McGovern continued. “Surely this Congress, Democrats and Republicans, can come together and do more than just have a moment of silence. This is common sense and both parties need to come together and take action.” “It’s not enough to come here after terrible tragedies like the one in Orlando where 49 people lost their lives and 53 were wounded and to just have a moment of silence,” McGovern concluded. “It’s becoming an empty gesture. We need to follow it up with action, and the American people – no matter their political ideology or political party – all want us to do something. Instead, all we can do is have a moment of silence. I would just say to my colleagues, it’s not enough. It’s time for action.” Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s speech on the House floor. Full Transcript of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “In the aftermath of this terrible tragedy in Orlando, the Speaker of the House asked for a moment of silence to pray for the victims., those who lost their lives, those were injured, and their families. And we stood here and for 10 seconds we had a moment of silence. One of our leaders, Mr. Clyburn, sought to get the Speaker’s attention to ask a question. Basically, the question was, is that it? “What about legislation? What about action to prevent these types of tragedies from happening in the future? And he was gaveled down. And there was a lot of outrage here on the House floor. And I think justifiably so. We have been here on this floor calling for moments of silence after terrible tragedies like the one in Orlando again and again and again and again. It’s not enough.” “Surely this Congress, Democrats and Republicans, can come together and do more than just have a moment of silence. Mr. Clyburn was asking about whether or not we could bring to the floor the bill that basically says if you’re a suspected terrorist and you’re on the FBI’s No-Fly list, then you ought not to be able to go into a gun store and buy a weapon of war. Asking if that could come up for debate and could we have a vote on that? “He was also going to raise the issue about whether or not we could revisit legislation that would call for a ban on assault weapons. The weapon that this killer used was an assault weapon and it was perfectly legal for him to buy. Is it worth a discussion as to whether or not we ought to place limits on the purchase of such weapons? “He was also going to raise the issue about whether or not we could pass the Hate Crimes Prevention Act, a bill that would prevent criminals who have been convicted of misdemeanor assaults against a victim based on his or her race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, or disability from causing further harm with a gun. “This is common sense and both parties need to come together and take action. For the life of me, I can’t understand why there is a hesitancy by the leadership of this House to grapple with some of these issues. It’s not enough to come here after terrible tragedies like the one in Orlando where 49 people lost their lives and 53 were wounded and to just have a moment of silence. It’s becoming an empty gesture. We need to follow it up with action, and the American people – no matter their political ideology or political party – all want us to do something. Instead, all we can do is have a moment of silence. “I would just say to my colleagues, it’s not enough. It’s time for action.” ###
06.14.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) spoke on the House floor today about the tragic shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando that killed 49 people and injured 53 more. Below is the text of Congressman McGovern’s speech, as prepared for delivery. “Americans across the country are horrified and saddened by the tragic loss of life in Orlando and the senseless gun violence that caused it. What is even more upsetting is that these mass shootings have become routine. Are we really the kind of country that will accept this as the new normal? “It is outrageous that there is a loophole in this country that allows suspected terrorists on the FBI’s no-fly list to walk into a gun store and legally buy deadly weapons. Plain and simple, if you’re too dangerous to fly, you’re too dangerous to buy a gun. That’s why I am joining House Democrats in demanding an immediate vote on the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation authored by Republican Congressman Peter King. “And it is time to enact commonsense legislation to ban assault weapons like the ones used in horrific mass shootings like the one in Orlando. These are weapons of war intended to cause mass casualties in a matter of minutes and have no place in our homes and communities. “I am also calling on House Republicans to pass the Hate Crimes Prevention Act – a bill that would prevent criminals who have been convicted of misdemeanor assault against a victim based on his or her race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, or disability from causing further harm with a gun. This is commonsense and both parties need to come together to take action. American lives are literally on the line. We can’t wait any longer.” ###
06.08.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – a senior member of the House Democratic Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity – joined today’s House Democratic press conference to call out Speaker Ryan for House Republicans’ dangerous poverty agenda unveiled this week and their failure to reject the hateful and divisive rhetoric and policies proposed by Donald Trump, their party’s presidential nominee. Joining McGovern today were House Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Vice Chairman Joe Crowley (NY-14), and House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee Chair Steve Israel (NY-03). Excerpts of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks: “The Speaker of the House and House Republicans yesterday announced their so-called anti-poverty program and it is the same old, same old. It consists of retreads, oldies, but goodies from their conservative playbook. “It looks like it was pieced together in the basement of Trump Tower because it does nothing to help lift people up and does everything to help put people down. And enough is enough. “There’s no difference between what the House Republicans are proposing and what Donald Trump is proposing on the campaign trail. They don’t have a clue about what it’s like to be poor in this country. And Democrats are going to stand up and fight them. Democrats have solutions that could actually help get people out of poverty and put people back to work. “The reality is that being poor in this country is hard work. A lot of the people who are struggling in poverty work for a living. They work full-time. Sometimes they work multiple jobs. The majority of people on SNAP who are able to work actually do work, but they earn so little that they still qualify for food stamps. “Why aren’t we talking about raising the minimum wage to a livable wage? Why aren’t we talking about ways to make work pay so that people don’t have to be in poverty. But that’s not what’s in the Republican plan. “It consists of more and more targeted cuts to programs that provide basic necessities like food. It is unconscionable what they have proposed and what they would do. “The proposal that Speaker Ryan has released…basically amounts to nothing new. Nothing innovative. Certainly nothing bipartisan. And my hope is that none of the stuff he’s proposed will go anywhere.” VIDEO: Click here for video of today’s press conference. Full Transcript of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks: “Nothing has frustrated me more in recent years than watching Republicans, day after day, beat up on poor people, belittle their struggle, diminish them, and present policies – quite frankly – that disrespect them. “The Speaker of the House and House Republicans yesterday announced their so-called anti-poverty program and it is the same old, same old. It consists of retreads, oldies, but goodies from their conservative playbook. “It looks like it was pieced together in the basement of Trump Tower because it does nothing to help lift people up and does everything to help put people down. And enough is enough. “I think what bothers me even more is that the Republican narrative about poverty doesn’t reflect the reality. They would have you believe that poor people are poor because they want to be poor. They would have you believe that people living on SNAP are living the high life. That it’s the easy way to get by. “The reality is that being poor in this country is hard work. A lot of the people who are struggling in poverty work for a living. They work full-time. Sometimes they work multiple jobs. The majority of people on SNAP who are able to work actually do work, but they earn so little that they still qualify for food stamps. “Why aren’t we talking about raising the minimum wage to a livable wage? Why aren’t we talking about ways to make work pay so that people don’t have to be in poverty. But that’s not what’s in the Republican plan. “It consists of more and more targeted cuts to programs that provide basic necessities like food. It is unconscionable what they have proposed and what they would do. “Look, I think there’s no difference between what the House Republicans are proposing and what Donald Trump is proposing on the campaign trail. They don’t have a clue about what it’s like to be poor in this country. And Democrats are going to stand up and fight them. Democrats have solutions that could actually help get people out of poverty and put people back to work. Create good jobs that pay decent wages. “So I hope it is clear to everyone, even those who have a quick glance at the proposal that Speaker Ryan has released that it basically amounts to nothing new. Nothing innovative. Certainly nothing bipartisan. And my hope is that none of the stuff he’s proposed will go anywhere. “And finally, I’ll just say, to keep on doing this, to keep on scapegoating poor people, to keep on beating up on poor people is just a lousy thing to do.” ###
06.07.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior member of the House Democrats' Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity and the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled the poverty portion of their so-called “A Better Way” agenda: “Americans need Congress to come together to offer bipartisan solutions that will help millions of families escape poverty – not make it harder for them to get ahead. Speaker Ryan likes to talk about fixing poverty, but the House Republican agenda outlined today would only make poverty worse. “We live in the richest, most powerful country in the world and yet 46 million of our fellow citizens are in poverty – including more than 15 million children. Today’s House Republican poverty agenda claims to offer bold new ideas, but the harsh reality is it’s just more of the same failed policies that hurt America’s most vulnerable families. “When Speaker Ryan announced his Republican taskforce to tackle poverty, it was pretty hard to take him seriously because every single Republican on the taskforce voted to cut SNAP by $40 billion. In Speaker Ryan’s home state of Wisconsin, 1 in 5 children struggle with hunger and 302,000 low-income children rely on free or reduced-price school lunches. Yet Speaker Ryan and House Republicans have repeatedly voted to slash the vital programs that help families in Wisconsin and across the country put food on the table. With today’s agenda, Speaker Ryan and House Republicans are just peddling more of the same empty rhetoric and offering no solutions to tackle hunger and actually help families in poverty.” “In fact, House Republicans have repeatedly pushed dangerous cuts that hurt millions of Americans in poverty. Year after year, Republicans have consistently worked to gut funding for Head Start, Medicaid, and a wide range of initiatives dedicated to reducing poverty. In the most recent Republican budget proposal alone, House Republicans proposed a shameful $3.7 trillion in cuts to essential anti-poverty programs. “Speaker Ryan’s latest attack on American families working to escape poverty isn’t a better way, it’s the wrong way. As much as Republicans try to distance themselves from Donald Trump, today’s agenda offering no solutions to actually help families escape poverty makes it clear that they’re cut from the same cloth. Slapping a fresh coat of paint on a failed set of policies doesn’t change the fact that this agenda will only make poverty worse. Americans deserve better and House Democrats will not back down from this fight.” ###
05.26.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House floor to honor Officer Ronald Tarentino Jr., a member of the Auburn Police Department who was tragically shot and killed in the line of duty this past weekend. Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech is Below: “Today I rise to honor Officer Ronald Tarentino Jr., a member of the Auburn Police Department in Massachusetts, who was tragically shot and killed in the line of duty this past weekend. “Officer Tarentino exemplified the courage and dedication that defines our incredible men and women in blue. His neighbors and friends described him as a ‘gentle giant,’ a ‘great guy,’ and ‘always willing to help.’ He always kept an eye out for the 91-year-old widow living across the street. “Remembering Officer Tarentino this week, Auburn Police Chief Andrew J. Sluckis said, ‘He got along with everybody. He was somebody who was always smiling. He was an outstanding guy, and we’re going to miss him.’ That’s how he’ll be remembered. “In the days since this tragedy, it has been truly inspiring to see the Auburn, Leicester and surrounding communities come together to support Officer Tarentino’s wife and three children. My heart goes out to them and I know I am not alone in saying that Officer Tarentino will never be forgotten.” ###
05.26.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the second-highest ranking House Democrat on the House Rules Committee, led today’s debate for House Democrats on the House GOP bill to provide funding for the U.S. response to the Zika virus. Congressman McGovern criticized House Republicans for waiting months to bring a bill to the floor and called today’s bill woefully inadequate for only providing a third of the $1.9 billion in Zika funding requested by President Obama. Click here for video of today’s speech. Excerpts of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “With nearly 1,400 Americans -- including more than 275 pregnant women -- currently infected with the virus, and well over a million cases expected before the end of the year, it is absolutely shameful that this House has failed to act on legislation to adequately fund a response to this potentially devastating crisis. “Zika is not coming to the United States. It’s here! As summer arrives, along with mosquito season, the mosquito that carries the Zika virus will be active and knocking on the doors of our southern states and territories. This is an emergency, and it should be treated as such. “Instead of working with Democrats to address this public health emergency in a serious bipartisan way that puts the health and safety of the American people first, the Republican leadership has once again brought to the floor partisan legislation that will not adequately meet the needs of the CDC, NIH, USAID and other governmental agencies that are on the front lines, responding to this crisis. “Yes, we all want to be fiscally responsible, but let me tell you this, if all you’re worried about is the bottom line, and that is the cost, by not adequately funding what is needed to combat this crisis, the costs that will result if this crisis gets out of control, will be prohibitive. You ain’t seen nothing yet. So we can nickel and dime this if we want, but we do so at our own peril. “We oughta be concerned primarily with the safety and well-being of the American people. But if that’s not enough to prompt my friends on the other side of the aisle to support the president’s request, I would suggest that cost of not supporting this request and adequately funding the response will be a cost like you’ve never seen before. I urge my colleagues to […] bring up strong bipartisan legislation that will fully fund the administration's request. This is a public health emergency and we must act now.” Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: As Prepared For Delivery “Let me start by saying how disappointed I am by the inadequate and long overdue response by this Republican majority to the Zika crisis. “With nearly 1,400 Americans -- including more than 275 pregnant women -- currently infected with the virus, and well over a million cases expected before the end of the year, it is absolutely shameful that this House has failed to act on legislation to adequately fund a response to this potentially devastating crisis. “Zika is not coming to the United States. It’s here! As summer arrives, along with mosquito season, the mosquito that carries the Zika virus will be active and knocking on the doors of our southern states and territories. This is an emergency, and it should be treated as such. “But my friends on the other side of the aisle have spent months delaying action and making excuses about why we don't need to provide the full funding that our nation's public health experts say we need. “I appreciate the fact that my friends on the other side of the aisle consider themselves public health experts, but there are people who are trained to be public health experts who tell us that what we’re doing here today is underfunding an inadequate response to this crisis. I suppose I shouldn't be surprised by this, as my friends in the majority have made it a habit of ignoring the advice of scientists and experts in favor of appeasing a small group of House Republicans on the extreme right. “In February, President Obama requested $1.9 billion to address the public health threat posed by the Zika virus. Instead of taking the swift action needed to confront this crisis, the House delayed and delayed and delayed as the Zika crisis continued to spread. We should have sent a bill to President Obama's desk months ago. “But instead, this leadership allowed months to go by without any action on the issue, until last week when they brought to the floor a completely inadequate $622 million package that provides only one-third of the funds requested by the administration. “House Democrats, under the leadership of Leader Pelosi and Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Lowey, have tried to bring to the floor meaningful emergency funding to address Zika, only to be blocked by House Republicans five times. Five times! “While the administration has taken steps to help keep Americans safe from the Zika virus, significant additional appropriations are needed. In a letter to Speaker Ryan, OMB Director Shaun Donovan and National Security Advisor Susan Rice said that without emergency supplemental funding, mosquito control and surveillance may need to be suspended. State and local governments that manage mosquito control may not be able to hire personnel for mosquito mitigation efforts. And vaccine developments -- which require multi-year funding commitments -- may be jeopardized. “To make matters worse, House Republicans sent to the floor last week -- and again this week -- a bill to undermine the Clean Water Act and protections for our waterways under the guise of helping to contain the Zika virus. But the truth of the matter is, the legislation is nothing more than a carve-out for pesticide special interests and would have absolutely no effect on spraying pesticides to combat the spread of the Zika virus. “It's a bill my friends have brought to the floor in the past, but they just couldn't help themselves in using this crisis as an excuse to further undermine environmental protections. “So instead of working with Democrats to address this public health emergency in a serious bipartisan way that puts the health and safety of the American people first, the Republican leadership has once again brought to the floor partisan legislation that will not adequately meet the needs of the CDC, NIH, USAID and other governmental agencies that are on the front lines, responding to this crisis. “Let me close by saying I have great respect for the gentleman from Oklahoma and when he says that he intends to support every effort to make sure that adequate funding is available, if I thought this whole decision was up to him alone, I don’t think I would be as nervous as I am at this particular point. But his party, that is in control, has shut this government down. We have seen them lurch from one crisis to another crisis and underfund one priority after another. Quite frankly, I don’t trust the people who are running this House to do the right thing, to get a majority of their majority to go along with providing the appropriate funding. “Yes, we all want to be fiscally responsible, but let me tell you this, if all you’re worried about is the bottom line, and that is the cost, by not adequately funding what is needed to combat this crisis, the costs that will result if this crisis gets out of control, will be prohibitive. You ain’t seen nothing yet. So we can nickel and dime this if we want, but we do so at our own peril. “We oughta be concerned primarily with the safety and well-being of the American people. But if that’s not enough to prompt my friends on the other side of the aisle to support the president’s request, I would suggest that cost of not supporting this request and adequately funding the response will be a cost like you’ve never seen before. I urge my colleagues to defeat this Rule, and to bring up strong bipartisan legislation that will fully fund the administration's request. This is a public health emergency and we must act now.” ###
05.24.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in the fight against hunger, spoke on the House Floor today to recognize Older Americans Month and to help raise awareness about senior hunger and the ways we can better address it. Congressman McGovern’s regular #EndHungerNow speeches have helped to keep the spotlight on hunger and the need to do more to help the millions of Americans who struggle to put food on the table every day. Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: As Prepared for Delivery “As we celebrate the contributions of our seniors during Older Americans Month this month, I rise to draw attention to an issue that often goes overlooked in our communities – the terrible problem of hunger among aging adults. “Food insecurity among seniors has doubled since 2001 and is expected to increase significantly as the Baby Boomer generation ages. “Today, food insecurity impacts five million seniors across the country, forcing them to make impossible decisions between food, medical care, home heating, and other necessities. “We know that hunger is a health issue, and that is especially true among seniors over the age of 60. “Research from Feeding America suggests that compared to their food secure neighbors, seniors suffering from hunger are 60 percent more likely to experience depression, 53 percent more likely to report a heart attack, 52 percent more likely to develop asthma, and 40 percent more likely to report an experience of congestive heart failure. “Baby Boomers spend twice as much on health care as young adults do, and ensuring seniors have access to nutritious food will help to improve the health of our seniors and ultimately reduce medical costs. “We also know that seniors have unique nutritional needs, and I’m pleased to see scientists collaborating to create nutritional guidance for seniors. “Researchers at the Jean Mayer U.S. Department of Agriculture Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, with support from the AARP Foundation, recently unveiled an updated MyPlate for Older Adults graphic to help seniors visualize what foods cover the nutritional needs that make up a healthy plate for adults their age. The new icon also encourages them to follow healthy eating patterns. “I was pleased to join scientists from Tufts, as well as representatives of AARP, last week at a briefing on Capitol Hill to unveil the new MyPlate icon and educate Congressional staff on the importance of senior nutrition. “But if we want to ensure seniors have access to nutritious foods, we must also ensure they have the ability to afford fruits, vegetables, and other healthy options. “One critical step we can take toward the goal of ending senior hunger is closing what’s referred to as the ‘senior SNAP gap.’ “While millions of our parents, grandparents, teachers, and friends are facing hunger, only a fraction of low-income seniors eligible for food assistance through SNAP are accessing the benefits, presumably because of the stigma associated with assistance or because seniors are unaware they qualify for benefits. “Many seniors also suffer from limited mobility, or may have issues completing benefit applications which can be complex and time consuming. “In fact, seniors are more likely than any other age group to be eligible for SNAP but not enrolled to receive benefits. “That’s why I’m pleased to see so many advocacy organizations using Older Americans Month to call attention to the issue of senior hunger. “Through their #SolveSeniorHunger campaign, Feeding America and other anti-hunger and aging organizations across the country are reaching out to seniors and their loved ones to raise awareness and ensure that those seniors who are eligible to receive SNAP benefits are connected to the appropriate resources. “We should all do our part to help solve senior hunger by talking to our family members and friends about senior hunger and partnering with leaders in our communities working to improve access to nutritious food for senior populations. “During my years in Congress, I have had the opportunity to visit food banks and other organizations in my district working to end hunger among seniors. “Last year, I had the privilege of spending a day with a Meals on Wheels program based in Northampton, Massachusetts – part of my Congressional district. I helped to prepare and deliver meals, and had the opportunity to speak with the seniors who are served through this incredible program. “Members of Congress have an important role in ensuring that our nation’s seniors don’t go hungry, and I encourage all of my colleagues to spend time with similar programs in their districts. “Congress must adequately fund programs like Meals on Wheels that provide nutritious food to seniors, and reject harmful cuts to SNAP that will disproportionately harm the most vulnerable among us – children, seniors and the disabled. “Working together, we have the power to end hunger now, especially among our senior population.” ###
05.19.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined 86 Members of Congress today in issuing the following joint statement regarding the Verizon strike and ongoing labor negotiations. Congressman McGovern has been a vocal supporter of the Verizon workers striking for fair pay and fair working conditions, marching with them in Shrewsbury and Leominster in the last month. “We applaud Verizon’s success and its ability to be profitable throughout the changes that have taken place in the telecommunications industry, but are deeply concerned about the ongoing Verizon strike,” Congressman McGovern and the lawmakers wrote. “Verizon workers build, install and maintain the state-of-the-art FiOS broadband system, and ensure that the millions of customers still reliant on the copper network continue to receive high quality service. In addition, Verizon Wireless retail store workers and technicians work in one of the most profitable sectors of the economy. We are troubled that the lack of a negotiated labor agreement could increase the likelihood that good jobs will be offshored to the Philippines, Mexico and other locations overseas or outsourced to low-wage, non-union domestic contractors. And we are concerned that Verizon wireless retail workers, who joined the union back in 2014, still have not been able to negotiate improvements in their wages, benefits and working conditions.” “It has been reported that Verizon’s highly skilled union workforce has declined by nearly 40 percent over the last decade. We are concerned that proposed changes in the new contract could continue that downward spiral. While we are heartened by Verizon’s announced intention to offer FiOS broadband service in additional cities, such as Boston, many communities across the country are still waiting. We hope that Verizon will be committed to hiring and retaining the skilled staff necessary to complete the buildout of its FiOS broadband service in a timely manner in all markets.” “We urge the parties to negotiate in good faith and agree to a fair contract. We firmly believe it is in the public interest to protect middle class jobs, reduce outsourcing and offshoring, and ensure high quality telecommunications services to the public.” The 88 Members who are signed onto this statement are: Rep. Jim McGovern Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. Alma S. Adams Rep. Joyce Beatty Rep. Donald S. Beyer, Jr. Rep. Brendan F. Boyle Rep. Robert A. Brady Rep. Julia Brownley Rep. Michael E. Capuano Rep. Matt Cartwright Rep. Judy Chu Rep. David N. Cicilline Rep. Katherine M. Clark Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. Gerald E. Connolly Rep. John Conyers, Jr. Rep. Joe Courtney Rep. Joseph Crowley Rep. Elijah E. Cummings Rep. Susan A. Davis Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro Rep. Suzan DelBene Rep. Mark DeSaulnier Rep. Debbie Dingell Rep. Michael F. Doyle Rep. Donna F. Edwards Rep. Keith Ellison Rep. Eliot L. Engel Rep. Elizabeth Esty Rep. Marcia L. Fudge Rep. Ruben Gallego Rep. Alan Grayson Rep. Gene Green Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva Rep. Brian Higgins Rep. Michael M. Honda Rep. Jared Huffman Rep. Steve Israel Rep. Hakeem S. Jeffries Rep. Marcy Kaptur Rep. William R. Keating Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy, III Rep. Dan Kildee Rep. Anne McLane Kuster Rep. James R. Langevin Rep. John B. Larson Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Sander M. Levin Rep. Alan S. Lowenthal Rep. Nita M. Lowey Rep. Stephen F. Lynch Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney Rep. Carolyn Maloney Rep. Betty McCollum Rep. Jim McDermott Rep. Grace Meng Rep. Seth Moulton Rep. Grace F. Napolitano Rep. Richard E. Neal Rep. Richard M. Nolan Rep. Donald Norcross Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr. Rep. Chellie Pingree Rep. Mark Pocan Rep. Charles B. Rangel Rep. Lucille Royball-Allard Rep. Tim Ryan Rep. Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan Rep. Linda T. Sánchez Rep. John P. Sarbanes Rep. Janice D. Schakowsky Rep. Adam B. Schiff Rep. José E. Serrano Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Louise McIntosh Slaughter Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Dina Titus Rep. Paul Tonko Rep. Niki Tsongas Rep. Chris Van Hollen Rep. Filemon Vela Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman Rep. Frederica S. Wilson ###
05.19.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – a senior House Democrat and proud supporter of LGBT equality – released the following statement on the improper conduct of House Republicans today in holding a vote open in order to force Republican Members to change their votes and defeat an amendment to uphold President Obama’s historic executive order banning anti-LGBT discrimination by federal contractors: “Today the American people saw a shocking display in Congress as House Republicans broke regular order to force their Members to switch their votes and support LGBT discrimination. Speaker Ryan promised a fair and open process when he took the Speaker’s gavel last fall, but clearly that didn’t apply today. “A clear majority of the House – including both Democrats and Republicans – were ready to protect LGBT Americans from discrimination. The measure would have prohibited taxpayer dollars from going to contractors who discriminate against LGBT Americans. However, House Republican leaders deliberately extended today’s vote – even after time had expired – so they could pressure members of their party to change their votes. As Americans across the country continue to embrace LGBT equality, it’s extremely disappointing to see that bigotry is still alive and well in this Republican-controlled Congress. “It’s pretty simple: Taxpayer dollars should never be used to support businesses that discriminate against LGBT Americans. Our country is better than this.” ###
05.18.2016	This week, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House Floor to call for the House to pass his bipartisan amendment to the FY 17 National Defense Authorization Act to honor the more than 200,000 American veterans who were exposed to dangerous levels of radiation while conducting nuclear weapons tests during between 1945 and 1962. McGovern later applauded the passage of his amendment as part of an en-bloc package and the bill will now go to conference negotiations with the Senate when the Senate finishes consideration of its version of the FY 2017 defense authorizations bill. Click here to watch video of the speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks Are Below: “I rise in favor of the McGovern-Pompeo amendment, which is part of this en-bloc, to recognize the service of Atomic Veterans or their surviving family members. “Between 1945 and 1962, about 200,000 servicemembers conducted hundreds of nuclear weapons tests and were exposed to dangerous levels of radiation. Sworn to secrecy, they couldn’t even tell their doctors. “Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush recognized their service by providing specialized care and compensation, but this isn’t enough. “Joe Mondello, a constituent of mine from Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, and other Atomic Veterans, helped bring this issue to my attention. It’s long past time to honor their service. “Last year, with the help of the chairman, in the authorization bill, we included this amendment, but then the Department of Defense insisted we remove it. Their explanation? ‘We don’t have a medal and we don’t want to create one. Congress should find another way to honor these veterans.’ That’s no excuse. In fact, that’s insensitive, that’s dismissive, and it’s ungrateful. We should be appalled. “Tragically, many of these Atomic Veterans have already died, without receiving recognition. They kept a code of silence that likely led to many passing away too soon. We must right this wrong. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment and I urge the Senate to do the same thing.” ###
05.18.2016	As the House took up the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) called out House Republican leadership for continuing to ignore the constitutional duty of Congress to debate and vote on the nearly two-year U.S. military operation against ISIS in the Middle East. Click here for video of today’s speech. McGovern offered a bipartisan amendment to the NDAA to prohibit the use of any U.S. funds after April 30, 2017, for the deployment of U.S. Armed Forces to Iraq or Syria in the fight against the Islamic State if an authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) has still not been enacted. The amendment was rejected by House Republicans on the Rules Committee. Excerpts of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “There is no shortage of Members of Congress talking tough against ISIS. But let’s be honest, that takes absolutely no courage at all. None of us are on the front lines in Syria or Iraq. We’re all safe and sound in the U.S. Capitol. We have sent our uniformed men and women into harm’s way in Syria and Iraq for nearly two years now. And still, Congress refuses to do its duty and authorize their deployment. “In fact, I remember that last year Speaker Ryan said an AUMF for Iraq and Syria – for the war against the Islamic State – would be one of the first things this Congress would take up this year. Well, here we are in the middle of May and there’s no AUMF in sight. “I guess this Congress is just too damn chicken to do its job when it comes to war and we’re going to kick the can into the 115th Congress. “Every single member of this House should be ashamed. Our collective silence – our collective indifference – is dismissive of our Constitutional responsibility. This chamber is guilty of moral cowardice. I urge my colleagues to show some backbone and demand that the Majority Leadership of this House carry out its constitutional duty to debate and vote on an AUMF for Iraq and Syria.” McGovern has been a leading voice in the push for Congress to finally vote on whether or not to authorize military action against ISIS. McGovern forced a House floor debate in May 2015, speaking to MSNBC’s Rachel Maddow about the effort, and in November 2015 McGovern led a bipartisan group of 35 House lawmakers calling for Speaker Ryan to let the House debate and vote on an AUMF. In December 2015, Speaker Ryan said that a debate and vote on an AUMF would be a 2016 priority, but five months later, Americans are still waiting. Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech is Below: As Prepared for Delivery “I would like to thank the honorable Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Mr. Thornberry, and the Ranking Member, Mr. Smith of Washington, for once again working in a bipartisan manner to bring before this House H.R. 4909, the FY 2017 National Defense Authorization Act. I appreciate that the Chairman and Ranking Member always treat all members submitting amendments to the NDAA with respect. “But I must rise in opposition to this structured rule because there are very serious issues that merit the time and attention of this House that were submitted to the Rules Committee by Members from both sides of the aisle which have NOT been included in this structured rule. “If there is one thing that most disturbs me about this structured rule, it is how it fails the American people, once again, in not allowing substantial debate about the issues of war and peace. “Nothing is more critical than the issues of war and peace, and once again the Republicans of the Rules Committee have ensured that no amendment that deals with authorizing the current U.S. military engagements in Iraq, Syria or Afghanistan was made in order. The only amendment made in order is the one offered by the gentlelady from California, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, to repeal the 2001 AUMF for Afghanistan, an amendment that she has courageously offered for several years now. “One of the amendments NOT made in order was an amendment offered by me and several colleagues to prohibit the use of any U.S. funds after April 30, 2017, for the deployment of U.S. Armed Forces to Iraq or Syria in the fight against the Islamic State if an AUMF has not been enacted. “This was a bipartisan amendment offered by Representatives Jones, Garamendi, Yoho, Lee of California, Cicilline and myself. “And let me make one thing very clear, M. Speaker – This amendment is NOT an AUMF. There is not one single syllable in this amendment that reflects the language of an AUMF. “The distinguished Chairman of the Armed Services Committee was very clear during the Committee mark-up of the NDAA that AUMF amendments were not the jurisdiction of his Committee, but rather the Foreign Affairs Committee. “But this amendment is NOT an AUMF. “My amendment only prohibits the obligation and expenditure of funds after April 30th – which is the Chairman’s chosen date for the cut off of all OCO funding – and then only for the deployment of U.S. Armed Forces to Iraq and Syria to combat ISIS unless an authorization for that purpose has been enacted. “Quite simply, if you want the money to fight a war, then pass an AUMF. “This amendment doesn’t care who writes it. It doesn’t care when it’s debated or approved. “It just requires that an AUMF be enacted by April 30th. If not, no more funds for U.S. troops in the air, on the water or on the ground until an AUMF is enacted. “All this amendment asks is for Congress to do its job. “We ask our men and women in the military to do their jobs – and heaven only knows, they carry out their duty with courage, honor and professionalism. “I only ask that Congress do the same. “This should not be too much to ask. We have sent our uniformed men and women into harm’s way in Syria and Iraq for nearly two years now. And still, Congress refuses to do its duty and authorize their deployment. “We’ve been bombing. We’ve got boots on the ground and engaged in combat, and we’ve had troops killed in action. Yet this Congress can’t seem to debate and vote on an AUMF. “I personally believe that endless wars, endless bombing and an ever expanding U.S. military footprint in the Middle East is not a substitute for efforts aimed at reconciliation and political solutions – the status quo will not make the world more secure. I know some of my colleagues differ with me – and that's fine. But let's have the debate. Let's have clarity in what we are doing. And let's make sure what we are doing works. Dodging responsibility only means that these wars will remain on remote control – and that’s sad. “Last night in the Rules Committee I heard arguments that 10 minutes would not be enough time to debate such a serious matter. Well, M. Speaker, the Rules Committee can assign as much time as it wants to debate an amendment – 2 hours, 3 hours, 3 days if it wishes. That’s what the Rules Committee is supposed to do – provide serious time to debate serious issues. “I heard that the Foreign Affairs Committee should be and would be drafting an AUMF. Fine – if it comes out and is enacted before April 30th, then it would fit right in with my amendment. But if this House continues to dawdle and whine and shirk its duties, then there should be no money after April 30th for a war that hasn’t been authorized by Congress. “I was told that the Republican leadership doesn’t like the AUMF that the president sent to Congress over a year ago. Well, neither do I. I think it’s too broad. But, if the majority or anyone doesn’t like the president’s AUMF, then it’s the duty of Congress to draft, debate and vote upon its own version of an AUMF – and send that bill back to the president for his signature or veto. That’s how the system works – or at least that’s how it would work if this House ever managed to do its job. “I was told that the next president wouldn’t have enough time to figure out an AUMF for Iraq and Syria by April 30th. But M. Speaker, I didn’t choose April 30th as the date when all funds for the Overseas Contingency Operations account would be cut off – that date is built into the NDAA already. If April 30th is time enough for a new president and new Congress to ask for more money for these wars in a supplemental, then it should be plenty of time for the Congress to take up and debate an AUMF. “Of course, this Congress – not the next one – should and could take up an AUMF any day it so desires. I remember in 2014 that Speaker Boehner told us that it would be better for the 114th Congress to debate and pass and AUMF for Iraq and Syria, rather than the 113th Congress. Well, here we are, sixteen-and-a-half months into the 114th Congress – with no thought of taking up an AUMF on battling the Islamic State. I guess this Congress is just too damn chicken to do its job when it comes to war and we’re going to kick the can into the 115th Congress. “Enough with the excuses, M. Speaker. “In fact, I remember that last year Speaker Ryan said an AUMF for Iraq and Syria – for the war against the Islamic State – would be one of the first things this Congress would take up this year. Well, here we are in the middle of May and there’s no AUMF in sight. “Just the same old tired excuses. The same cowardice. The same political posturing. “There is no shortage of Members of Congress talking tough against ISIS. But let’s be honest, that takes absolutely no courage at all. None of us are on the front lines in Syria or Iraq. We’re all safe and sound in the U.S. Capitol. “But think for a minute. What must be going through the minds of our troops when they see a Congress that doesn’t even have the guts to debate these wars – while they have been put in harm’s way? “Every single member of this House should be ashamed. Our collective silence – our collective indifference – is dismissive of our Constitutional responsibility. This chamber is guilty of moral cowardice. “There are nearly 200 reasons to oppose this rule – that’s how many of the amendments submitted to the Rules Committee were NOT made in order under either the first rule to the NDAA or today’s rule. Basically 50 percent of all amendments submitted are not being allowed a chance to be heard. “I urge my colleagues to reject this rule. I urge my colleagues to show some backbone and demand that the Majority Leadership of this House carry out its constitutional duty to debate and vote on an AUMF for Iraq and Syria.” ###
05.16.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House Floor to raise awareness about food waste in the U.S. and to praise efforts in Massachusetts and across the country to reduce food waste and help the 50 million Americans – including 16 million children – who struggle with hunger every year. Click here for video of today’s speech “American consumers, businesses, and farms spend an estimated $218 billion per year growing, processing, transporting, and disposing of food that is never eaten. Up to 40 percent of all food grown is never eaten,” Congressman McGovern said. “Forty to fifty million tons of food is sent to landfills each year, plus another 10 million tons is left unharvested on farms. This food waste translates into approximately 387 billion calories of food that went unconsumed. “With 50 million Americans – including 16 million children –struggling with hunger every year, these are startling figures,” McGovern added. “We know food waste occurs throughout the supply chain – from harvesting to manufacturing to retail operations and consumer habits. We must do more to reduce food waste at every stage, recover food that would have otherwise been wasted, and recycle unavoidable waste as animal feed, compost, or energy. “Thankfully, there’s already a lot of great work being done to raise awareness about the problem of food waste,” McGovern concluded. “I’m pleased to see so many partners at every level of the food supply chain taking action to reduce food waste, but still, more needs to be done. Let’s solve the problem of food waste and let’s end hunger now.” In today’s speech today, Congressman McGovern recognized Massachusetts leaders and organizations like the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts for helping to reduce food waste as part of the larger push to tackle hunger. McGovern also thanked Becker College, College of the Holy Cross, Smith College, the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and Worcester Polytechnic Institute for their work with the Campus Kitchen Project and the Food Recovery Network to provide hunger relief in their local communities through campus food recovery initiatives. Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech is Below: “Thousands of people will gather in Washington, D.C. this week for “Feeding the 5000” – an event designed to bring awareness to the issue of food waste. “Participants will be served a communal meal made entirely out of food that would otherwise have been discarded – in other words, wasted. “Since 2009, Feedback, a global environmental organization working to end food waste, has hosted dozens of “Feeding the 5000” events in cities across the globe. “I’m pleased to see so many local partners – including government agencies, charitable organizations, NGOs, industry, and chefs – joining together to call attention to food waste. “Because the truth of the matter is, we’ll need all of these partners working together to solve the issue of food waste. “Last year, the USDA announced their first-ever food waste reduction goal, calling for a 50 percent reduction in food waste by 2030. USDA is working with charitable organizations, faith-based groups, and the private sector and I believe this goal is 100 percent achievable. “American consumers, businesses, and farms spend an estimated $218 billion per year growing, processing, transporting, and disposing of food that is never eaten. “Up to 40 percent of all food grown is never eaten. Forty to fifty million tons of food is sent to landfills each year, plus another 10 million tons is left unharvested on farms. “This food waste translates into approximately 387 billion calories of food that went unconsumed. “With 50 million Americans – including 16 million children –struggling with hunger every year, these are startling figures. “We know food waste occurs throughout the supply chain – from harvesting to manufacturing to retail operations and consumer habits. We must do more to reduce food waste at every stage, recover food that would have otherwise been wasted, and recycle unavoidable waste as animal feed, compost, or energy. “Thankfully, there’s already a lot of great work being done to raise awareness about the problem of food waste. “Just last week I attended a screening of the documentary film, Just Eat It at Amherst Cinema, organized by the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. Just Eat It follows a couple, Jen and Grant, as they stop going to the grocery store and live solely off of foods that would have been thrown away. Jen and Grant were able to find an abundance of perfectly safe and healthy food available for consumption that would have been thrown away. “It’s exciting to see new partnerships forming to study food waste and find ways to use this perfectly good food to reduce hunger in our communities. “One such private-public collaboration, ReFED, has brought together over 30 business, government, and NGO leaders committed to wide-scale solutions to U.S. food waste. “In March, 2016, ReFED released a Roadmap that charts the course for a 20 percent reduction of food waste within a decade. “The Roadmap calls for farmers to reduce unharvested food and create secondary markets for imperfect produce. It calls on manufacturers to reduce inefficiencies, make packaging adjustments, and standardize date labeling. It calls on food service companies to further implement waste tracking and incorporate imperfect produce and smaller plates into restaurants. And it urges the federal government to strengthen tax incentives for food donation and consider standardized date labeling legislation. “The good news is that many in the industry are already taking steps to dramatically cut down on wasted food by implementing robust donation programs. “For example, Starbucks recently announced it will soon scale up its successful food donation pilot program nationwide. In partnership with the Food Donation Connection and Feeding America, Starbucks will donate unsold food from more than 7,000 company-operated stores –salads, sandwiches, and other refrigerated items – to the Feeding America food bank network. By 2021, that amounts to almost 50 million meals. “Our college campuses are also stepping up. Both the Campus Kitchen Project and the Food Recovery Network work with college dining facilities and students to provide hunger relief in their local communities. In my congressional district, Becker College, College of the Holy Cross, Smith College, the University of Massachusetts Amherst, and Worcester Polytechnic Institute all have campus food recovery initiatives. “Over the past 35 years, Feeding America has demonstrated an outstanding commitment to ensuring food that would have otherwise been wasted makes its way to food banks across the country and into the homes of families in need. “There are dozens of other industry leaders also taking steps to reduce food waste by implementing manufacturing upgrades, maximizing harvests, and utilizing recycling initiatives. “I appreciate the efforts of the Food Waste Reduction Alliance in bringing together industry partners to reduce food waste, shrink the environmental footprint, and alleviate hunger in our communities. “Reducing food waste is one step we can take toward our goal of ending hunger in the United States and throughout the world. “I’m pleased to see so many partners at every level of the food supply chain taking action to reduce food waste, but still, more needs to be done. Let’s solve the problem of food waste and let’s end hunger now.” ###
05.11.2016	On the House floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke in support of bipartisan legislation to tackle the opioid epidemic hurting so many communities in Western and Central Massachusetts. Click here to watch video online. The bills debated today were H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction (COARA) Act, and H.R. 4641, a bill to provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes. OPIOID EPIDEMIC IS AN ‘EMEGENCY’ “We need to provide funding to our communities struggling to deal with the opioid and heroin crisis. This is an emergency. That’s how you have to classify this and look at this. This is an emergency. People are dying,” Congressman McGovern said. “Without providing the additional resources needed, we will not be part of the solution. “So I think that we need to understand that this crisis has risen to the level of an emergency. We need to do what’s right. We need to not only pass these bills, but we need to commit in a bipartisan way that we’re going to provide the necessary funding and I hope we can do that. If we don’t do that – all the speeches that we give this week will amount to empty rhetoric. We need to make sure we fund these priorities.” ACTION IN MASSACHUSETTS McGovern praised local efforts led by the Central Massachusetts Opioid Task Force and the Opioid Task Force serving Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region and thanked his fellow members of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation – Representatives Joe Kennedy (MA-04), Katherine Clark (MA-05), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Bill Keating (MA-09), and Stephen Lynch (MA-08). “In New England, we know all too well the terrible toll of the opioid epidemic. Having seen the damage it has done to the communities that I represent in Central and Western Massachusetts, tackling the opioid epidemic has long been a top priority for me,” McGovern added. “Instead of giving in to despair, communities in Massachusetts and across the country are responding to the opioid epidemic with strength and with courage. They are helping to lead grassroots, state and national coalitions to raise awareness and educate people about the crisis and provide resources to help those ensnared by the addiction. “The Central Massachusetts Opioid Task Force, chaired by Worcester County District Attorney Joe Early, is a great example of this. They are working to bring greater awareness of the problem to residents. Members of the task force attend many of the coalition forums and also go into schools to talk to students. “The Opioid Task Force serving Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region in Massachusetts is another example. It’s co-chaired by John Merrigan, Franklin County Register of Probate; Chris Donelan, Franklin County Sheriff; and David Sullivan, Northwestern District Attorney. “I am so thankful for these and other task forces and coalitions in Massachusetts and across the country for coming together quickly to address this public health crisis and for their tenacity in fighting for individuals and families struggling with addiction.” Click here for video of today’s speech. For TV, Radio, and Online Stories: Click here to download video. Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Remarks are Below: “I rise to speak on the rule for consideration of H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction (COARA) Act, and H.R. 4641, a bill to provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes. “By the end of this week, the House will have taken up a total of 17 bipartisan ‘opioid-related’ bills, each a critical measure to help us tackle the opioid crisis in a variety of ways as we work to end this scourge hurting so many communities across our country and costing the lives of so many all across this country. “I am pleased that the House will be considering this critical bipartisan legislation this week, but in all honesty, I am also very concerned that Republicans are not proposing the new funding that is necessary to meaningfully address the opioid crisis. So in addition to passing the bipartisan legislation on the Floor this week, which authorizes a new grant program, we must also provide real new resources in the form of appropriations to ensure that the initiatives in this legislation can be fully implemented. If we don’t do that – all the speeches that we give this week will amount to empty rhetoric. We need to make sure we fund these priorities. This is an emergency. “Opioid addiction is inflicting a savage daily toll in neighborhoods across America. According to the CDC, 78 Americans die from an opioid overdose every day – and many of them are young people. In 2013, the number of heroin users was 681,000, an increase of more than 250,000 users since 2002. This crisis is affecting every region across the country and every demographic group. “I have long said that Congress must provide the meaningful resources that are needed to make a difference and save lives and today I am pleased that the we are coming together and taking action to attempt to do just that. These are important first steps. “In New England, we know all too well the terrible toll of the opioid epidemic. Having seen the damage it has done to the communities that I represent in Central and Western Massachusetts, tackling the opioid epidemic has long been a top priority for me. “Across Massachusetts the number of opioid overdose deaths climbed by nearly 10 percent – up from 1,282 in 2014 to 1,379 in 2015. Once all cases are finalized by the medical officials in Massachusetts, it’s estimated that there will be an additional 63 to 85 deaths for 2014 and 118 to 179 deaths in 2015. “In Worcester County alone, home of the second-largest city in New England, opioid-related deaths jumped from 163 in 2014 to 177 in 2015. Looking back at the last 16 years, we can see an even bigger increase. In 2000, there were 59 opioid-related overdose deaths in Worcester County – a small fraction of the 1,289 deaths in 2015. “Most of last year’s victims were between the ages of 25 and 44, in the prime of their lives with so much to live for. Many left behind families heartbroken and devastated by these senseless deaths. These families include husbands, wives, children, and so many more who loved them and desperately wanted them to get the help they needed and live. “The opioid epidemic is even harder to cope with for those who have seen young people lose their lives to addiction. In Shrewsbury, Massachusetts, one high school principal said that in the 11 years he has been principal, he has known of 33 students who have been active heroin addicts. Seven of them died and at a recent forum, he learned that there had been even more that he had not known about. “Part of the problem is the stigma associated with heroin use. I think a lot of us think we know what heroin use and addiction look like, but the reality is it can take hold of anyone, including our neighbors, our friends, and even our own family members. “However, instead of giving in to despair, communities in Massachusetts and across the country are responding to the opioid epidemic with strength and with courage. They are helping to lead grassroots, state and national coalitions to raise awareness and educate people about the crisis and provide resources to help those ensnared by the addiction. “The Central Massachusetts Opioid Task Force, chaired by Worcester County District Attorney Joe Early, is a great example of this. They are working to bring greater awareness of the problem to residents. Members of the task force attend many of the coalition forums and also go into schools to talk to students. “The Opioid Task Force serving Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region in Massachusetts is another example. It’s co-chaired by John Merrigan, Franklin County Register of Probate; Chris Donelan, Franklin County Sheriff; and David Sullivan, Northwestern District Attorney. “I am so thankful for these and other task forces and coalitions in Massachusetts and across the country for coming together quickly to address this public health crisis and for their tenacity in fighting for individuals and families struggling with addiction. “Just this week, I had the opportunity to join community leaders at North Brookfield High School in Central Massachusetts for an event with Chris Herren, a former constituent of mine from Fall River and a former Boston Celtics player who now travels to schools in New England and across the country to speak about his own recovery from addiction and the need for young people to stay drug-free. “I am also grateful to my fellow members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation for being strong partners in this fight. Joe Kennedy is a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and has been a leader on this issue – he’s the lead Democratic sponsor of HR 4641. And a number of amendments sponsored by Massachusetts members were made in order last night, including several from Katherine Clark as well as amendments from Seth Moulton, Bill Keating, and Stephen Lynch. “I also want to commend the leadership of Congresswoman Annie Custer from New Hampshire. She has been out front on this issue for a long, long time and we appreciate her leadership. “The simple truth is that we’re not going to arrest our way out of this problem. Prevention and treatment must be at the heart of our approach to tackling this epidemic. As part of the comprehensive approach called for, we must equip our young people with the skills necessary to identify constructive ways to deal with problems so that turning to drugs is never an option. “We must make every effort to ensure that treatment is available to those who seek it. Because it takes courage and strength to admit that you need help. I am pleased that the legislation we are considering this week will do just that. “I strongly support the legislation this rule makes in order. H.R. 5046, the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act, would establish the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program. With $103 million provided annually over 5 years, this program would help provide vital assistance to state and local agencies to fund treatment alternatives to incarceration, opioid abuse prevention, training, and education. “The program’s grants could be used to train first responders in carrying and administering opioid overdose reversal drugs, support prescription drug monitoring programs, and strengthen collaborations between criminal justice agencies and substance abuse systems, or for programs targeted toward juvenile opioid abuse programs. “This legislation is a commonsense bipartisan step that goes a long way to provide the critical help that Americans across this country need to combat our opioid epidemic. “I also support of H.R. 4641, a bill to provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes. Creating this task force is another key step to help strengthen our national response to the opioid crisis and increase inter-agency collaboration as we marshal all of our resources in this fight. “I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle who worked very hard to bring additional bipartisan legislation to the floor this week to tackle the opioid crisis. These bills would take important steps to cut the risk of opioid addiction among veterans managing chronic pain, take on international drug traffickers, improve the treatment and care of babies who are born addicted to opioids, help reduce opioid use among young people, and strengthen access to opioid overdose reversal medication. “There are many issues that Democrats and Republicans do not see eye to eye on, but I am pleased that both parties are coming together, at least on this first step, to tackle the opioid crisis. For families and communities across the country who have already lost so much and so many to this epidemic, there has never been a more important time for us to take action. “I want to thank the leaders of both parties for helping to bring these important bipartisan bills to the House floor. I do believe we can end the opioid crisis once and for all. “But again – let me stress – we need to provide funding to our communities struggling to deal with the opioid and heroin crises. This is an emergency. That’s how you have to classify this and look at this. This is an emergency. People are dying. Without providing the additional resources needed, we will not be part of the solution. “So the ideas that we have compiled today and are debating this week are all good ideas, but they won’t be real ideas unless they are funded. And I worry that this Congress might not be up to the challenge. We have emergencies in Flint, Michigan with the water crisis. And we have not done what we needed to do to provide emergency funding for that community. We have a growing emergency with the Zika virus and we can’t get an emergency appropriations bill to the floor. “So I think that we need to understand that this crisis has risen to the level of an emergency. We need to do what’s right. We need to not only pass these bills, but we need to commit in a bipartisan way that we’re going to provide the necessary funding and I hope we can do that. “With that, I reserve the balance of my time.” ###
05.06.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement on the announcement that Deputy Chief Steven Sargent will be the new Worcester Police Chief, succeeding retiring Worcester Police Chief Gary Gemme: “As the son and father of police officers, Steve Sargent is part of a proud family tradition of public service. Steve Sargent has served in uniform for 30 years, both in the military and as a police officer, and he is an excellent choice to lead Worcester’s police department as chief. Steve knows Worcester and understands that a safe city is built on strong relationships with the community. Thanks to Chief Gemme’s leadership, Worcester is one of the safest cities in Massachusetts. I know Steve Sargent has the qualifications and experience to build on that legacy and I look forward to all that he will accomplish as the new Worcester police chief.” ###
05.05.2016	On Saturday, May 14, 2016, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will host his annual U.S. Service Academy Day in Worcester. Each year, Congressman McGovern hosts the event to connect high school students interested in serving in a United States Service Academy with representatives who can offer help and advice with the application process. Joining Congressman McGovern at the event will be representatives from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Naval Academy, Merchant Marine Academy and the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The event is open to the public. Full information is below. Click here for a PDF with event info. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Representatives from U.S. Service Academies WHAT: 2016 Central Massachusetts U.S. Service Academy Day WHERE: Veterans Inc., 44 Salisbury Street, Worcester, MA WHEN: Saturday, May 14, 2016 at 2:00PM – 4:00PM ###
05.04.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement on the retirement of Worcester Police Chief Gary Gemme: “Worcester is safer because of the tireless service of our police officers and I am so grateful to Chief Gemme for his leadership as police chief and for more than 30 years of working to protect our community. By strengthening neighborhood partnerships and expanding community policing, Chief Gemme has helped to make Worcester one of the safest cities in Massachusetts. This is a powerful reminder of what our community can accomplish when we work together. We wish him the very best in his retirement and thank him for all he has done to keep our families safe.” ###
05.04.2016	Today a bipartisan group of 120 members of Congress is calling on President Obama to re-prioritize peace, accountability and protection of civilians in Sudan during his final year in office. The bipartisan letter is led by Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Joseph Pitts (R-PA), co-chairs of a bipartisan Congressional human rights commission, and the co-chairs of the bipartisan Sudan and South Sudan Issues Caucus: Representatives Michael McCaul (R-TX), Mike Capuano (D-MA), Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), and Barbara Lee (D-CA). In the letter, the lawmakers call for strong U.S. leadership and advocacy on the grave abuses and humanitarian crisis that persist and continue to worsen inside Sudan itself. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) said: “As the violence in Sudan grows worse, the world is looking to the United States to be a strong partner in the effort to build a lasting peace and address this devastating humanitarian crisis. Today in Sudan, families are being displaced, hunger and malnutrition have reached crisis levels, and civilians face the constant threat of aerial bombings. With today’s letter, our bipartisan coalition is calling on President Obama to make Sudan a top priority by taking new steps to protect the Sudanese people and put an end to this violent conflict.” Rep. Joseph Pitts (R-PA) said: “We must not allow the conflict in Sudan to vanish from our collective memory. The Sudanese government is purposely withholding aid from conflict regions, brandishing starvation as a weapon. Children in Darfur suffer from advanced stages of malnourishment, as food insecurity in the city is at emergency levels— one step below famine. My colleagues and I wrote to the Obama Administration today to encourage the President to keep the protection of human rights in Sudan at the forefront of his agenda in the last year of his presidency. One of the most powerful weapons we enjoy, as a nation, is the effective use of our influence; now is the time to wield it. The Administration must step forward and provide leadership to the international community in continuing to center its attention on this conflict." Rep. Mike Capuano (D-MA) said: “Tragically, the people of Sudan are still living in fear, enduring an ongoing humanitarian crisis in a region where murder and violence are commonplace. Millions of people have fled their homes and many are facing starvation. Circumstances are dire and we urge the Administration to enhance its advocacy for the people of Sudan.” Rep. Michael McCaul (R-TX) said: “The ongoing tragedy in Darfur is heartbreaking. Every day innocent men, women, and children suffer atrocities including rape and murder and millions more are in need of life-saving aid. The United States must do more to help the people of Sudan. We can accomplish this by isolating the Sudanese government with economic sanctions such as designating Sudanese gold as ‘conflict gold’ and by holding countries such as India and Saudi Arabia accountable for allowing Sudanese President Omar Al-Bashir to travel freely without arresting him in accordance with the International Criminal Court. The administration must act now to help stop the violence and protect the Sudanese people." Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) said: “Tragically, the violence in Sudan is escalating daily. Millions of people have been displaced, food insecurity is rampant and violence continues unchecked. Today, I’m joining more than 100 of my colleagues in asking President Obama to prioritize building peace and stability in Sudan. Through sustained diplomacy and high-level engagement, the U.S. has an opportunity to make a difference in Sudan and in the lives of the Sudanese people” The full text of the letter to President Obama is below: Dear Mr. President, Darfur has not gone away. As you know, the crisis has spread to other parts of Sudan, particularly South Kordofan and Blue Nile, as lifesaving aid has been blocked and aerial bombardments have targeted civilians and their crops exacerbating an already dire humanitarian crisis. Across Sudan severe human rights abuses continue. Public and media attention may have waned, but the suffering of civilians has not. We urge you to enhance the U.S. approach to this conflict, and re-prioritize peace, accountability, and protection of civilians in Sudan in your last year in office. We appreciate the efforts you have made with the Sudanese government to address and resolve the crisis in South Sudan, and the recent opening of Sudanese southern borders is a welcome development. Such engagement, valuable on its own merits, must not preclude or overshadow the need for strong U.S. leadership and advocacy on the grave abuses and humanitarian crisis that persist and continue to worsen inside Sudan itself. Today, over 5 million people are in need of life-saving aid across Sudan including at least 1.5 million who have been continually displaced since the Darfur genocide began in 2003. Violence has intensified in recent years, with at least half a million people newly displaced in the last two years. USAID’s Famine Early Warning System reports almost 4 million people at crisis levels of food insecurity and warns of increased food insecurity in 2016. In Darfur, U.N. agencies report extreme levels of child malnutrition, and in some parts of South Kordofan, food insecurity may reach emergency levels, just one level below famine. While we welcome the fact that the United States remains the largest supplier of humanitarian aid to Sudan, those efforts are hollow if that aid cannot get to the people who need it most, or if the conflict continues to rage on indefinitely. The Government of Sudan is directly responsible, bombing civilian targets and blocking or delaying both life-saving aid and supplies for UN peacekeepers. This intransigence is well documented. Violations of UN Security Council Resolutions including the ongoing bombing of civilians are consistently reported by the UN Panel of Experts. Nuba Reports, a local group of journalists reporting from within Sudan, has documented over 4,000 bombs dropped on civilian targets in South Kordofan and Blue Nile since 2012. The United States has a number of ways that it can help influence the behavior of the Sudanese regime through the use of financial tools at its disposal. We urge the Obama Administration to enhance the current sanctions regime so that is focused to impact the calculations of the Sudanese regime’s top-level officials, by targeting top level officials, financial institutions and other facilitators of the conflict. Similarly, the U.S. should utilize the good relations that the U.S has with countries in the Arab world that support Khartoum financially, to pressure countries like Qatar and Saudi Arabia, which are investing in Sudan and lending the regime money, to turn off the spigot until true reform and change occurs on the ground. Additionally, we urge the administration to counter gold as a major source of funding for the conflict in Sudan, allowing it to continue its atrocities. Please prioritize efforts to encourage industry associations to designate Sudan’s gold as conflict-affected. Gold has emerged as a top revenue earner for the Sudanese government after the secession of South Sudan deprived the regime of oil proceeds. The bulk of this gold is mined in the conflict region of Darfur and its extraction bears the hallmarks of grave human rights abuses. Penalizing the trade in Sudanese gold can help deprive the regime of a major source of revenue for its war machinery. Sudanese President Omar Al-Bashir continues to travel with near impunity despite arrest warrants from the International Criminal Court on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. This includes visits to India, Saudi Arabia, and South Africa with no apparent consequences. The lack of accountability has emboldened the Government of Sudan. Despite the documented uptick in violence and displacement the Government of Sudan has announced plans for dismantling displacement camps and has been demanding the removal of UN peacekeepers. The United States can make a difference in Sudan by making it more difficult for the regime to continue to wage war against its own population. With sustained urgent attention and multilateral efforts, the United States can significantly contribute toward peace, accountability, and protection of civilians in Sudan. The genocide in Darfur is an issue you championed as a Senator and as you came into office as President. The current situation in Darfur and throughout Sudan requires sustained efforts at the very highest level of our government. Now, as much as ever, the people of Sudan need you to be a champion today. *** In addition to the six bipartisan co-leads, the letter was also signed by House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY) and Representatives Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) , Alcee Hastings (D-FL), John Lewis (D-GA), Danny Davis (D-IL), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Gwen Moore (D-WI), André Carson (D-IN), Krysten Sinema (D-AZ), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Michael Doyle (D-PA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Randy Weber (R-TX), Greg Meeks (D-NY), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Peter Welch (D-VT), Donald Payne, Jr.(D-NJ), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Gerald Connolly (D-VA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Tim Huelskamp (R-KS), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Sanford Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), David Cicilline (D-RI), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Hank Johnson, Jr. (D-FL), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Hakeen S. Jeffries (D-NY), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Bill Flores (R-TX), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Dina Titus (D-NV), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Donald Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Brenda Lawrence (D-MI), Ryan Costello (R-PA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Barbara Comstock (R-IA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), David Scott (D-GA), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Al Green (D-TX), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), William Keating (D-MA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Brian Higgins (D-NY), James Clyburn (D-SC), Daniel Donovan, Jr (R-NY)., Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Steny Hoyer (D-MD), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Norma Torres (D-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Michael Honda (D-CA), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Richard Neal (D-MA), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Thomas Rooney (R-FL), Jim Costa (D-CA), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Lois Capps (D-CA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Pete Visclosky (D-IN), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Nita Lowey (D-NY), Sander Levin (D-MI), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Adam Schiff (D-CA), John Garamendi (D-CA), David Price (D-NC), Dan Kildee (D-MI), John Delaney (D-MD), Alma Adams (D-NC), Judy Chu (D-CA), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), and Marcia Fudge (D-OH). ###
05.03.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – co-chair of a bipartisan Congressional human rights commission – and Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA), Sam Farr (D-CA), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) are joined by 55 Members of Congress in calling for the involvement of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights in the investigation into the March 3, 2016 killing of Honduran human rights defender Berta Cáceres. In an effort to ensure justice and accountability in the case, the Members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry yesterday, after the Honduran Public Prosecutor’s Office announced the arrests of four individuals in connection with the case. Click here to view the letter to Secretary Kerry. “America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights at home and abroad. Berta Cáceres was a tireless champion for the most vulnerable in Honduras and her death in March was a terrible loss. Today, I am joining my colleagues in calling on the Honduran government to allow the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to examine the case,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “By supporting a full and independent investigation, the Honduran government can send a strong message that they are committed to finding the truth and achieving justice for the family.” “I am encouraged by the arrests made yesterday, but in high-profile human rights cases like this, we know that initial arrests do not always lead us to the true perpetrators,” said Congresswoman Norma J. Torres (D-CA), the founder and co-chair of the Central America Caucus. “Allowing the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to look into this case would be a clear sign that the government is truly serious about getting to the bottom of what happened.” “The loss of Berta Cáceres is felt not only in Honduras but around the globe,” said Congressman Sam Farr (D-CA). “The international community must do everything possible to bring her murderers to justice to demonstrate our commitment to human rights and the people she championed.” “The Honduran government must urgently address the human rights crisis developing within that country. In the wake of the murder of Berta Caceres and the ongoing violence and threats facing activists, the Honduran government has refused to take meaningful action to address the lack of rule of law,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “This is why I signed a letter calling for the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to get involved in the investigation and ensure due process. The victims of this violence deserve justice and the Honduran government must respect the rights of all of their people.” The letter is the latest expression of significant and sustained congressional interest in this emblematic human rights case. As Congress considers President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 request for more than $750 million in new assistance for Central America, the letter underscores the depth of concern about the human rights situation in Honduras. Click here to view the letter to Secretary Kerry. The full text of the letter and list of cosigners can be found below. Dear Secretary of State Kerry, We write to urge the State Department to ensure the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) is actively involved in the investigation into the murder of acclaimed Honduran human rights activist Berta Cáceres. We continue to mourn the March 3, 2016 murder of Ms. Cáceres and, less than two weeks later, the murder of her colleague Nelson Garcia. We are acutely aware that skepticism abounds regarding the willingness and capacity of Honduran authorities to carry out an effective investigation in this case. Such skepticism has been expressed not only among Ms. Cáceres’ colleagues and family members, but also by members of the international community, including Members of the United States Congress. In this context, the family of Ms. Cáceres and the organization that she led, COPINH, have requested the involvement of the IACHR. Given the high profile of this case and the degree of skepticism toward the official investigation, we believe that IACHR involvement is warranted. Therefore, we respectfully ask that you encourage the Government of Honduras to work with the IACHR and with the family and legal representatives of Ms. Cáceres to enter an agreement that would provide for active IACHR involvement in this case. We know that U.S. authorities have been providing some technical assistance to Honduran authorities in this investigation. Furthermore, we understand that the government of Honduras has requested the assistance of the Honduras office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), as well as the Organization of American States-sponsored Mission to Support the Fight against Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH). However, neither the OHCHR Honduras office nor the MACCIH are fully operational yet. Moreover, while the Organization of American States has approved the MACCIH’s involvement in aspects of the case pertaining to corruption, OAS Secretary General Luis Almagro has made very clear that the human rights aspects of the case are within the jurisdiction of the IACHR. Additionally, there is a compelling precedent for IACHR involvement in an active criminal investigation. Following the September 26, 2014 disappearance of 43 students in Iguala, Mexico, the Government of Mexico, along with the families and legal representatives of the disappeared students, entered into agreement with the IACHR to create a Group of Experts. That group, which consisted of internationally-recognized prosecutors and criminal justice experts, was tasked with assisting the Government of Mexico in searching for the students, investigating the circumstances of their disappearance, and assisting the Government of Mexico in developing policies related to enforced disappearance. The work of the Group of Experts has been widely acclaimed, and Members of the United States Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, have been strongly supportive of the Group. Their work has also given hope to the families of the victims and to the human rights community in Mexico. While the circumstances of Ms. Cáceres’ murder are in many ways distinct from the circumstances of the disappearance of the 43 students in Mexico, we absolutely believe the U.S. government should press for robust IACHR involvement in the investigation of the Berta Cáceres case. Honduras deserves the same fidelity to the rule of law. Thank you for your consideration of this important request. Sincerely, [The letter was signed by Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-CA); Sam Farr (D-CA); Jan Schakowsky (D-IL); James P. McGovern (D-MA); Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ); Barbara Lee (D-CA); Bobby L. Rush (D-IL); Donna F. Edwards (D-MD); Zoe Lofgren (D-CA); Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA); Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL); Betty McCollum (D-MN); Alan Lowenthal (D-CA); Jim McDermott (D-WA); Chris Van Hollen (D-MD); Lloyd Doggett (D-TX); Marcy Kaptur (D-OH); Ron Kind (D-WI); Jared Polis (D-CO); Mark Pocan (D-WI); Charles B. Rangel (D-NY); Ruben Gallego (D-AZ); Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA); Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA); Jared Huffman (D-CA); José E. Serrano (D-NY); Beto O’Rourke (D-TX); Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA); John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI); Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA); Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. (D-GA); Judy Chu (D-CA); Chellie Pingree (D-ME); Seth Moulton (D-MA); Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY); Tony Cárdenas (D-CA); Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY); Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ); Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA); Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); Katherine Clark (D-MA); David N. Cicilline (D-RI); Jerrold Nadler (D-NY); Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC); Paul D. Tonko (D-NY); Ted W. Lieu (D-CA); Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY); Keith Ellison (D-MN); Adam B. Schiff (D-CA); Louise McIntosh Slaughter (D-NY); Michael M. Honda (D-CA); Frank Pallone, Jr (D-NJ); Bill Foster (D-IL); Richard M. Nolan (D-MN); Michael E. Capuano (D-MA); Matt Cartwright (D-PA); Karen Bass (D-CA); Joseph Kennedy, Jr. III (D-MA); Rubén Hinojosa (D-TX).] ###
04.29.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in the push for normalizing U.S.-Cuba relations, spoke on the House floor today to honor the Finca Vigia Foundation, based in Massachusetts. The foundation is the result of a multi-year collaboration between Americans and Cubans to help restore and protect the home, documents, and related materials of Ernest Hemingway’s home in Cuba, the Finca Vigia. Hemingway’s home in Cuba is located 12 miles outside of Havana, in the village of San Francisco de Paula. Click here for video of today’s floor speech. Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “I rise today to honor the Finca Vigia Foundation based in Massachusetts and the extraordinary model it provides of what Americans and Cubans working together can accomplish. Over the past 13 years, this special collaboration has restored and protected the home, documents, and related materials of Ernest Hemingway’s home in Cuba, the Finca Vigia, located 12 miles outside of Havana, in the village of San Francisco de Paula. “Like so many stories on Capitol Hill, this one began when a visitor from Massachusetts walked into my office. Jenny Phillips had an interesting story to tell because her grandfather was Ernest Hemingway’s editor and long-time friend, Maxwell Perkins. She and her husband, Frank, had traveled to Cuba earlier that year to visit the Finca Vigia, which the Cubans have lovingly cared for and operated as a museum since Hemingway’s death. We are grateful to those Cubans. There would be no Hemingway House without their decades of devotion to his memory and legacy. “In addition to touring the house and grounds, Jenny and Frank also saw thousands of Hemingway documents and photographs that were in boxes and containers in the basement, most unknown to writers and researchers. They recognized the priceless value of these papers to Hemingway scholars worldwide, but they also knew that the political divide between the U.S. and Cuba made their preservation and accessibility a problem. “Listening to her describe what was at stake, we took the first steps that would result in a wonderful bi-national process to save Hemingway’s documents; preserve the architecture and physical structure of his home; restore his famous boat, the Pilar; and conserve and protect the contents of his home, including original furniture, clothing, a 9,000-volume library, original galley proofs and manuscripts, and over 4,000 photographs. Time and tropical climates are not kind to these delicate materials. “Partnering with the Social Science Research Council here in the U.S., the Cuban Ministry of Culture and the Cuban National Cultural Heritage Council (CNPC), a plan of action was outlined to carry out a joint preservation project in Cuba and to conserve digitized and microfilm copies of all documents located at Hemingway’s home to the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum and to the Cuban National Cultural Heritage Council. In 2002, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Eric Hershberg with the Social Science Research Council and Dr. Marta Arjona Perez of the CNPC; and witnessed by Frank and Jenny Phillips; Sandra Spanier with Pennsylvania State University and General Editor of the Hemingway Letters Project; Sean, Angela and Hilary Hemingway, who are the grandson, daughter-in-law and niece of Ernest Hemingway; President Fidel Castro; and myself. Dozens of Cubans and Americans attended the signing, including my wife, Lisa. “Since then, scores of Cubans and Americans have worked together to make the dream of preserving this priceless legacy of Ernest Hemingway a reality. This includes officials at the State Department, Commerce Department and Department of Treasury in both the Bush and Obama Administrations, who recognized the importance to America and the world of saving Hemingway’s cultural history in Cuba and helped the project navigate the requirements of U.S. regulations and license applications. “I would especially like to note and thank the many Cuban cultural officials and preservation, architectural, museum and technical experts who made this dream come true – and I apologize if I leave anyone out. I would like to begin with Cuban President Fidel Castro, whose unconditional support was essential to the project moving forward, as well as Josefina Vidal during her service at the Cuban Interests Section here in Washington and later following her return to Havana. I want to highlight the role of then-Minister of Culture, the iconic Abel Prieto, who was such an enthusiastic and encouraging voice when we first began reaching out to Cuban officials in 2002, as well as his successors, Rafael Bernal and the current Minister of Culture Julian Gonzalez Toledo. “Central to the success of the restoration and preservation of Hemingway’s house, grounds and their contents are: Marta Arjona Perez, now deceased, who was the visionary voice on the project when she was president of the Cuban National Cultural Heritage Council (CNPC); Gladys Collazo Usallan, who is the current president of the CNPC, as well as her predecessors Manuel Palacios Soto and Margarita Ruiz Brandi; Nestor Garciaga, vice president of the CNPC and chief conservator of the Hemingway papers; Gladys Rodriguez Ferrero, long associated with the Hemingway collection and buildings, and former director of the Finca Vigia Museum, has been one of the most influential voices and actors in the preservation and restoration projects; Ada Rosa Alfonso, the current director of Finca Vigia Museum, and Isabel Ferrero, the current deputy director of the museum; Architect Enrique Hernandez Castillo; Structural engineer Livan Yanes Diaz; Historic preservation architects Fernando Sanchez Rodriguez and Marco Antonio Vidal Garcia; Conservators Elisa Serrano Gonzalez, Liabys Alfonso Perez, Rosalba Diaz Quintana and Roberto Abaen Siglen; and Arborist Rafael Ibanez San Miguel and Manuel Valle Lopez from the Institute of Forestry Research. “Their leadership, participation, expertise, vision and generosity have been the essential heart of this successful collaboration. I know that I speak for many Americans when I say that we share their pride and joy in having participated, day by day, in the restoration and preservation of Hemingway’s legacy in Cuba. I count each of them as a valued colleague and friend, and I feel honored to have had the privilege, even if in a small way, to work with them on this historic project. “Initially known as the Hemingway Preservation Foundation, the non-profit Finca Vigia Foundation has been the critical coordinating agent of U.S. professionals and technical experts who have contributed their expertise, skills, time and passion to this major preservation undertaking. Since 2004, the Foundation has harnessed the talents, skill and collaboration of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Social Science Research Council, Mystic Seaport and the Northeast Document Conservation Center to create teams of engineers and architects, preservationists and document conservators, botanists, builders and photographers to: Architecturally restore and preserve Hemingway’s home to its 1950’s splendor; Restore Hemingway’s famous yacht, the Pilar; Conserve and digitize more than 10,000 documents, 4,000 photographs and five rare Hemingway scrapbooks; Preserve these original documents in Cuba and bring digital images to the United States to the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum in Boston; and Design, in a joint U.S.-Cuban collaboration, an on-site archival storage facility with wet and dry conservation laboratories. “There are so many individuals, U.S. companies and foundations that have made the restoration of Hemingway’s house a personal passion. They have dedicated time and talent, materials and funding to this initiative for over a decade – and I would like to mention just a few: “First, are the foundations whose early contributions allowed this project and the Finca Vigia Foundation to get its feet on the ground, explore with its Cuban partners how to bring this dream to fruition and put the first cornerstones in place. They are the Ford Foundation, the J.M. Kaplan Fund, the Christopher Reynolds Foundation, the Stewart Mott Charitable Trust and the Rockefeller Foundation. “Next, I would like to recognize the National Trust for Historic Preservation, which has recognized the Finca Vigia in Cuba as a U.S. Historic Preservation site – the only such site outside of the United States – and whose experience and technical expertise in preservation and cultural conservation have been invaluable. I would especially like to note the contributions of Richard Moe, former president of the National Trust, and Paul Edmondson, current General Counsel with the National Trust for Historic Preservation. “Several foundations and U.S. companies have been involved directly in the preservation projects or in providing financial support for this work. The lead sponsor for document conservation has been the EMC Corporation, headquartered in Hopkinton, Massachusetts, and especially Bill Teuber, Chris Goode and Joel Schwartz from the company. EMC also reached out to Intel and Emulex, who also provided financial support to the project. The lead sponsors for the construction of archival storage and conservation laboratories are the Caterpillar Foundation and Caterpillar, Inc., along with the AT&T Foundation, the Ford Foundation and American Express. “U.S. professionals who have been critical contributors and participants in the technical, document conservation, construction and arquitectural teams are William Dupont, former Chief Architect with the National Trust for Historic Preservation and currently a professor at the University of Texas/San Antonio; architect planners Leland Cott and Henry Moss with Bruner/Cott & Associates; structural engineer Michael Henry with Watson & Henry Associates; structural engineer Robert Silman with Robert Silman and Associates; landscape architects Patricia O’Donnell with Heritage Landscapes; and preservation architect Mary DeNadai with John Milner Architects, and Ronald Staley, construction specialist from Christman Company in Lansing, Michigan. Also very much involved are collections conservationist Wendy Claire Jessup; and wooden boat curator Dana Hewson with Mystic Seaport. In the first years of the project, attorney Thomas D. Herman provided invaluable pro bono advice, and Attorney Michael Gurdak and his team from Jones Day have provided essential services throughout the project. “Special recognition must also be paid to the tireless work and engagement of Mary-Jo Adams and Robert Vila. Mary-Jo is the executive director of the Finca Vigia Foundation, and its very heart, soul and beating blood. Without her efforts, this project would not have been possible. Bob Vila is a builder, a well-known TV Host, especially of the PBS program, This Old House, and a recognized building consultant. Bob has been involved on-the-ground in Cuba with overseeing every phase of the restoration of Hemingway’s house and grounds. Along with Jenny Phillips, he is the Co-Chair of the Finca Vigia Foundation, but more than anything, we know that when Bob is on-site in Cuba, all’s right with the world –and if it isn’t, he’ll make sure that it is. Finally, I’d like to recognize the work of Michael Mershon, who recently left my staff and who worked with me for over a decade on the Hemingway project. “Right now, U.S. and Cuban technical teams are constructing a facility on the grounds to carry out on-site archival storage with wet and dry conservation laboratories. Known as the “Taller” – which means “workshop” in Spanish – this facility will ensure the longevity of the Hemingway papers. It will be the first building constructed in Cuba, using U.S. materials and ingenuity, since the 1950s. The Cuban Ministry of Culture views this project as a possible prototype to be replicated across the country in the preservation of cultural heritage. The construction of this critical facility is possible because of the new regulations announced by President Obama in December 2014. “With very little money, and largely during a period of daunting obstacles created by a tense political climate, the Finca Vigia Foundation and its teams of experts, in close collaboration with Cuban professionals and experts, have done a great service for the American people, the Cuban people, and indeed, all the people of the world. With passion and professional skill, they recognized that the life, memory, books, papers and home of Ernest Hemingway are above politics and policies, which are fleeting, while art is eternal. They understand that the legacy of Ernest Hemingway is a shared heritage, belonging to both Cubans and Americans. And in one of the best models of what can happen when Americans and Cubans collaborate, they have made sure that it will never be lost. “I am so very grateful to Jenny and Frank Phillips for walking into my office 13 years ago, and sparking a remarkable and personal journey for me. It has offered me the rare privilege to meet and work with so many extraordinary Cubans and Americans and to participate in preserving our shared heritage around the life and artistic achievements of Ernest Hemingway. I can’t wait to see what the next chapter brings.” ###
04.29.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a leading champion in the fight to end hunger, spoke on the House floor to honor Sophie Marie Edwards, a Youth Advocate for Share Our Strength’s “No Kid Hungry” campaign to end childhood hunger in America. Click here for video of today’s floor speech. Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech: “I rise today to recognize Sophie Marie Edwards, an incredible young woman who has made ending hunger her personal passion. “Realizing that some of her friends in elementary school didn’t have enough to eat, Sophie founded Square Meal Project when she was only eight years old. Since then, she’s raised more than six thousand dollars for food banks and local feeding programs. Through her efforts, more than one thousand kids have been able to receive a healthy summer lunch. She’s also made it her mission to educate everyone she meets about the problem of hunger in America. “Sophie’s work in her hometown of Marietta, Georgia led her to be recognized as a Youth Advocate for the national No Kid Hungry campaign. “I am inspired by Sophie’s commitment, compassion and drive to end hunger. Sophie teaches us all that you’re never too young to make a difference. I have no doubt that Sophie will continue to do great things to end hunger now.” ###
04.29.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice on human rights, released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Defense Department has disciplined 16 service members for mistakes that led to the October 2015 U.S. airstrike on a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan. The bombing killed 42 and injured 43, including humanitarian workers and patients. “Today’s action by the Pentagon is an important step, but only an independent investigation will ensure full accountability for the tragic U.S. airstrike that killed humanitarian workers and patients in a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Afghanistan last fall,” Congressman McGovern said. “Hospitals in conflict zones are protected spaces. These doctors and medical workers put themselves in harm’s way every day to save lives. The victims and their families deserve justice and I will continue to call on President Obama and Secretary Carter to allow an independent investigation to be conducted to ensure that all who are responsible are held accountable and that this never happens again.” Congressman McGovern led a letter to President Obama after the October 2015 airstrike to request a full and independent investigation into the bombing. McGovern was joined on the letter by Representatives Keith Ellison (D-MN), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Jim McDermott (D-WA), John Conyers (D-MI), John Garamendi (D-CA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Judy Chu (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA). ###
04.27.2016	This week, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – co-chair of the bipartisan House Hunger Caucus – spoke on the House floor with House Democrats to condemn the dangerous cuts proposed by House Republicans in their bill to reauthorize the Child Nutrition Reauthorization Act. Click Here for Video of Congressman McGovern’s Speech. Text of Congressman McGovern’s Speech Below: “We are here because we are outraged. We are outraged by the Republican attempts to undermine our child nutrition programs. We’re outraged at their lousy child nutrition reauthorization bill. It is a terrible, terrible, terrible bill. My friends should be ashamed of this bill. “A nutritious school meal is just as important to a child’s success in school as a textbook. Hungry children can’t concentrate. They can’t focus on their studies. In short, hungry children cannot learn. That is a fact. Everybody knows that. And yet, we have a bill that my Republican friends have drafted that will increase hunger. That will actually take food out of the mouths of children. It is outrageous. “Together, our child nutrition programs – WIC, school breakfast and lunch, the Summer Food Service Program, and the Child and Adult Care Food Program -- provide nutritional support for children year round in places where they live, learn, and play. “Unfortunately, H.R. 5003, which is the Republican reauthorization bill, includes a number of harmful provisions that would roll back years of progress and hamper the ability of children to access healthy meals. As I said, to be very blunt, it makes hunger worse in this country. “Specifically, the bill would undermine the successful Community Eligibility Provision -- first included in the last reauthorization bill -- that has allowed high-poverty school districts to offer universal school meals to all students. In its first two years, CEP helped more than 8.5 million low-income students access free meals. “Instead of building on the success of this program, my Republican friends would severely restrict schools’ eligibility for the community eligibility option. “The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities estimates that 7,022 schools currently using community eligibility would lose it under this Republican bill. And another 11,647 schools that qualify for community eligibility, but who have not yet adopted it, would be prevented from doing so in the future. “As we approach the summer months, it’s also important to remember that child hunger gets worse in the summer. Consider this: for every 6 children who get a lunch at school each day; only 1 receives a meal in the summertime. “Instead of being a carefree time, for children who depend on getting healthy, reliable school meals during the school year, the summer months can be a time of stress, anxiety and hunger. But it doesn’t have to be that way. “Unfortunately, this Republican bill cuts the successful Summer EBT pilot program, which provides a temporary boost in food assistance benefits during the summer months for families whose children receive free school meals during the school year. And it fails to make necessary investments to expand the reach of the Summer Food Service Program so that more kids have access to healthy summer meals in their neighborhoods. “In addition, this bill rolls back evidence-based standards that made school meals healthier. USDA estimates that more than 90 percent of schools have successfully, successfully implemented these standards. “You know, my grandmother used to say to me when I was growing up, ‘An apple a day keeps the doctor away.’ I wish I was still alive so I could tell her she was right. Food is medicine. When we eat good nutritious food, we tend to have healthy lives. If you eat bad food, if you eat junk food, then you end up getting health issues like diabetes, like high-blood pressure, like obesity, and I could go on and on and on. “Why, in the world, would anybody want to lower the nutrition standards in our school meals to give our kids junkier, less nutritious food? What sense does that make? “And if my colleagues, who are advocating these reversals of smart policy doing so only because they want to save a few dollars, let me tell you something: You’re saving nothing. If we don’t get this right, if we don’t insist that our kids have access to healthy, nutritious food, the medical costs associated with the health challenges they will experience are astronomical. Hundreds of billions of dollars in avoidable health care costs as a result of children not having access to good food. “Fifteen million children face hunger in this country. Instead of undoing the success we have already achieved, Congress should be focused on ways we can strengthen these vital child nutrition programs. “Let me just say finally, it is hard for me to understand why we have to be here today, why everything is a fight when it comes to dealing with issues of hunger, when it comes to dealing with issues of making sure our kids get access to good nutrition. It is always a fight to protect so many vital food and nutrition programs that help our kids. “There is either a shocking ignorance about the reality of the poverty that millions of our children face in this country or simply indifference. Those are the only two ways I can explain what is going on in this chamber. And whichever one it is, it is a sad excuse for what my Republican friends are trying to do. “Let’s come together. This should be a bipartisan issue. There was a time when fighting hunger, making sure that our kids had access to nutritious food was a bipartisan issue. George McGovern and Bob Dole worked together in the 1970s to strengthen our food and nutrition programs. “But now, in this chamber, these issues have become controversial. And it is sad because there are a lot of people in this country who are depending on us to find ways to end hunger in America. They’re depending on us to make sure that their kids, when they go to school, have access to nutritious food and that they have access to nutritious food during the summer months as well. Why are my friends making it so difficult? Enough. Enough of this. Stop beating up on the most vulnerable people in this country. Let’s come together, let’s reject this awful draft of the child nutrition reauthorization bill. Let’s come together and do this right.” ###
04.26.2016	With Puerto Rico just days away from defaulting on a nearly half-billion dollar debt payment, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) called for House Republicans to work with Democrats to find a bipartisan solution. “With our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico facing a historic financial crisis that grows more serious by the day, the time for Congress to act is now,” Congressman McGovern said. “The future of Puerto Rico’s economy hangs in the balance and it is essential for Congress to pass a bill that would allow Puerto Rico to restructure its debt in a responsible way and get on a path to the firm financial footing going forward. “Turning our backs on our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico is simply not an option,” McGovern added. “I am grateful to Leader Pelosi and Ranking Member Grijalva for their work to lead bipartisan talks. I urge my Republican colleagues to continue to work with them to move forward with a bipartisan solution that allows Puerto Rico to restructure its debt. I am proud to represent a vibrant Puerto Rican community in Central Massachusetts and will do all I can to ensure that Congress finally fulfills its responsibility to address this financial and humanitarian crisis and help our friends in Puerto Rico in their time of need.” Impact of Ongoing Puerto Rico Financial Crisis: Economy 10 percent of the population of Puerto Rico has left in the last decade, including two-and-a-half percent, or 85,000, in 2015 alone. One doctor leaves the island per day. 45 percent of the population of Puerto Rico lives in poverty. The unemployment rate stands at 11.7 percent, or more than double the national average. Budget Suppliers to the government are owed $2 billion. Taxes and fees have increased significantly: sales tax has risen 11.5 percent, the highest in the country. Water rates have increased 65 percent. Government employment has decreased 27 percent since 2008. Puerto Rico’s State Insurance Fund is at risk of insolvency due to unpaid loans to the central government and public agencies. Education 150 schools have closed on the island, and it is anticipated that this number will increase to nearly 600 in the next five years, or half of all public schools. Therapy sessions for special education students are at risk of being disrupted because the Department of Education has not paid service providers in four months. Healthcare More than 325 confirmed cases of the Zika virus have been reported, and 20 percent of the population is at risk of becoming infected. Hospitals across the territory have had to lay off staff and have dangerously low resources: HIMA San Pablo Hospitals will lay off 470 employees, or nine percent of their staff. San Jorge Children’s Hospital, the largest children’s hospital on the island, closed two wings, 40 rooms, reduced hours and cut pay for all employees, and cannot fund 70 vacant nursing positions. The Forensic Psychiatric Hospital cut more than half its staff. The Inglesia Episcopal Hospital has less than 12 days of cash on hand. Housing 22 percent of homes in Puerto Rico are vacant. On average, 12 families lose their home each day. The delinquency rate on mortgage payments stands at 14.25 percent in Puerto Rico, compared to six percent in the mainland. ###
04.21.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined nearly 100 Members of Congress today in calling on the House Judiciary Committee and the Committee on House Administration to hold hearings about reforms that will help restore American democracy and make the voices of everyday Americans heard in Congress. McGovern was one of the first national leaders to speak out against Citizens United in 2011 and is a lead sponsor of the Democracy for All Amendment. “Americans are deeply troubled by the growing influence of corporations and big money in politics. Every member of Congress has a solemn responsibility to stand up for the men and women who elected them, not corporations and the wealthy few,” Congressman McGovern said. “With the 2016 campaign in full swing, we are seeing record-breaking political spending and new efforts to restrict voting rights for average Americans. It is long past time for us to do something about it.” “The two basic imperatives of a functioning democracy – the right to vote and the right to have your vote mean something – are under assault,” the Members wrote. “Spurred by the Supreme Court’s decision in Shelby County v. Holder, partisan operatives in state legislatures are crafting new ways to limit Americans access to the ballot box. At the same time, the corrosive effect of big money on our political system – an effect exacerbated by the Citizens United decision – has left many Americans wondering whether their ballots can ever compete against the power of a privileged few.” The Members asked the Chairmen of each committee to schedule hearings on the following bills: · The Voter Empowerment Act (H.R. 12) · The Government By the People Act (H.R. 20) · The Democracy for All Amendment (H.J.Res. 22) · The Automatic Voter Registration Act (H.R. 2694) · The Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015 (H.R. 2867) The letter came shortly after thousands of people from all over the country joined each other on the steps of the U.S. Capitol to call on Congress to fight big money in politics and return to a government of by and for the people. A full copy of the letter can be viewed here. ###
04.20.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement on today’s announcement by Kinder Morgan Inc. that it will suspend further work and expenditures on its proposed Northeast Energy Direct-Tennessee Gas pipeline. “Today is a big victory for Western Massachusetts and our state’s future as a leader in clean and renewable energy. With the defeat of this pipeline, it is clear that the voices of Western Massachusetts families have been heard. I am so proud of the incredible activism led by my constituents. “The safety and health of our communities must be our first priority. With so many concerns raised about how the pipeline could impact local drinking water, our farmers and the crops they grow, and ongoing conservation efforts, I believe it is the right decision to halt development of the pipeline. “People must always come before profits and today the people won. Massachusetts has a proud tradition as a leader in clean energy and we must continue to build on that by investing in solar, wind, and other renewable energies. Making these investments will help to reduce energy costs, combat climate change, and support the good-paying jobs that will power the 21st century economy and build strong, sustainable communities that will thrive for decades to come.” ###
04.20.2016	As President Obama visits Saudi Arabia today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – a leading voice in Congress on human rights – joined Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA) in leading a bipartisan letter with 17 House lawmakers calling for President Obama to meet with representatives of civil society and human rights advocates, including those who may be currently in prison or their families. The letter is part of a push to help raise the public profile of human rights concerns while President Obama is in Saudi Arabia. Click here to view the letter “We firmly believe that U.S. engagement with the Saudi government should actively include engagement with Saudi human rights advocates,” the lawmakers write in the letter. “Indeed, we are hopeful that public U.S. engagement with Saudi human rights advocates will be a form of modest U.S. pressure on the Saudi government over human rights issues, and will provide a measure of protection by publicizing the situation of Saudi human rights advocates who are subject to government repression and under increasing threat.” Earlier this week, Congressman McGovern called on President Obama to use his Saudi Arabia trip and meeting with King Salman to urge the release of human rights prisoner Raif Badawi, who was sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes for his liberal writings and support for secularism. Badawi's wife and children, fearing for their lives, fled the country and now live in Canada. As co-chairs of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, McGovern and Pitts led today’s letter to President Obama and were joined by Representatives John Conyers (D-MI), Hank Johnson Jr. (D-FL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Donna Edwards (D-MD), John Lewis (D-GA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), and Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX). Click here to view the letter online. Full Text of the Letter to President Obama is Below: April 20, 2016 The Honorable Mr. Barack Obama President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington DC 20500 Dear President Obama, During your upcoming trip to Saudi Arabia, we write to strongly urge you to meet with representatives of civil society and human rights advocates, including those who may be currently in prison or their families, or take similar action to help raise the public profile of human rights concerns. You are surely well aware, as are we, of the continuing record of grave human rights abuses committed by the Saudi government against its citizens, as documented every year by the State Department. We understand that the U.S. government must engage with the Saudi government on issues where our interests coincide, in particular security, just as the U.S. government engages with many countries with poor records of respect for basic human rights. We firmly believe that U.S. engagement with the Saudi government should actively include engagement with Saudi human rights advocates. Indeed, we are hopeful that public U.S. engagement with Saudi human rights advocates will be a form of modest U.S. pressure on the Saudi government over human rights issues, and will provide a measure of protection by publicizing the situation of Saudi human rights advocates who are subject to government repression and under increasing threat. During your recent trip to Cuba, you met not only with Cuban government officials, but also with representatives of Cuban civil society, including Cuban human rights advocates. Those meetings were profoundly important, not only for the individuals and groups with whom you met personally, but for Cuban society as a whole. It sent a clear message to the international community that meetings with members of civil society, including political dissidents, are an important and indispensable element of engagement with non-democratic regimes, friends and foes alike. We believe Saudi civil society merits the same regard. Thank you for your attention to our concerns and recommendations. Sincerely, ###
04.20.2016	With up to one million of the poorest Americans at risk of losing food assistance in 2016, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) spoke on the House floor today to urge Republicans in Congress and in states across the country to come together with Democrats to reverse these devastating cuts. Click here for video of today’s speech. These Americans are at risk of losing their Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits because a provision in the 1996 welfare reform law goes back into effect this year that limits adults working less than 20 hours a week or not enrolled in a job training program can only receive three months of SNAP in a 36-month period. As Congressman McGovern noted, the problem is “many areas of the country haven’t fully recovered from the recession” and for many individuals “there are no open jobs and worker training slots are all full… for individuals who have been searching for a job for months, who have applied to every job posting they’ve seen, and who can’t get into a job training program because the wait list is too long, they’re punished.” McGovern added that, “SNAP operated like it was supposed to during the recession. It expanded to meet the needs of the millions who lost their jobs, of middle-class families who never imagined they’d need food assistance in the first place. And now, as our economy improves, fewer people need the assistance. But we’re not there yet.” “Cutting 1 million of the poorest Americans off from food assistance is wrong. Increasing hunger is wrong,” McGovern concluded. “Rather than demonize the poor and diminish their struggle, we ought to come together to help, not hurt people. We ought to end hunger now. This war on the poor has to stop.” Click here for video of today’s speech. Full Text of Today’s Floor Speech: “On April 1st, thousands of poor Americans started losing their SNAP – or food stamp – benefits. “All told, over the course of this year as many as one million adults will be cut off from SNAP. That’s because one of the harshest provisions of the 1996 welfare reform law says that adults working less than 20 hours a week or not enrolled in a job training program can only receive three months of SNAP in a 36-month period. The problem is, however, that many areas of the country haven’t fully recovered from the recession. There are no open jobs and worker training slots are all full. “The economic recovery has been uneven across the country. And for many individuals, through no fault of their own, getting back to work has been difficult. “At the height of the recession, governors across the country – both Democratic and Republican – asked the U.S. Department of Agriculture to allow them to temporarily waive work requirements and provide SNAP benefits to unemployed childless adults for longer periods of time. But now, some governors are refusing to extend those work waivers, even in areas of their states with high unemployment. “For a million of the poorest Americans to lose food assistance in the midst of this is unconscionable. “We’re talking about the poorest of the poor. These are childless adults whose income averages 29 percent of the poverty line – or about $3,400 a year. A year. No one can live on that. “Many face multiple barriers to employment including disability, limited education, and chronic homelessness. Their employment can be sporadic – often cycling in and out of low-wage jobs with unpredictable hours that do not lift them out of poverty. “What’s most appalling is that about 60,000 of those who will but cut off from SNAP this year are veterans. That’s right, these are the brave men and women who stood up to protect our country and now we don’t have the decency to help them put food on the table when they come home. “We should be ashamed. “Let me be clear about something – the 3 month limit on childless adults receiving SNAP is not a work requirement, despite what some of my Republican colleagues say. It’s a time limit. There’s no requirement that states offer work or job training to those who are about to lose their benefit. There’s nothing here that incentivizes work. Rather it penalizes those who are struggling the most. “Work requirements in other federal assistance programs typically require people to look for work or accept any job or job training slot that’s offered but do not cut off people who are willing to work and are looking for a job simply because they can’t find one. “But that’s not the case with SNAP. “So for individuals who have been searching for a job for months, who have applied to every job posting they’ve seen, and who can’t get into a job training program because the wait list is too long, they’re punished. And study after study shows that the longer someone is unemployed, the harder it is to get hired. It is baffling to me that the Republicans’ answer to them is “sorry, you’re out of luck.” “The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that it takes someone who is unemployed about 6 months of looking to find a job. That’s twice as long as the 3-month time limit. “For the life of me, I can’t understand how making someone hungrier helps them find a job faster. We should be making people’s lives better, not harder. “This notion that some on the Republican side peddle that somehow SNAP is this overly generous program that people are just jumping to get into is false. “The average SNAP benefit is $1.40 per meal per day. That’s meager. It is inadequate. “And this idea that SNAP is the root of our budget problems is outrageous. New data released from the Treasury Department just last week shows that SNAP spending is falling. In the first half of the current fiscal year, SNAP spending was at its lowest level since 2010. Not only that, but SNAP caseloads are falling too. That is due to the improving economy. “SNAP operated like it was supposed to during the recession. It expanded to meet the needs of the millions who lost their jobs, of middle-class families who never imagined they’d need food assistance in the first place. And now, as our economy improves, fewer people need the assistance. But we’re not there yet. “Cutting 1 million of the poorest Americans off from food assistance is wrong. Increasing hunger is wrong. “And I would say to the Republican leadership of this House that the narrative you have put forward about those in poverty does not reflect the reality. Rather than demonize the poor and diminish their struggle, we ought to come together to help, not hurt people. We ought to end hunger now. This war on the poor has to stop.” ###
04.19.2016	With this week’s announcement that the U.S. will send more than 200 additional troops to Iraq and send eight Apache helicopters for the first time in the mission to defeat ISIS, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) called on Congress to finally vote on an authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) for the nearly two-year war. Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice calling for Congress to fulfill its constitutional duty to vote on a war authorization for the fight against ISIS, forcing a debate on the House floor last year and continuing to keep the issue in the national spotlight. With this latest troop escalation, the official number of U.S. troops in Iraq will total more than 4,000. And with hundreds more in the country who are not counted on the official rolls, the real number of U.S. troops in Iraq is over 5,000, according to defense officials. Click here for video of today’s speech. Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech is Below: “Drip, drip, drip, M. Speaker. That’s the sound of U.S. escalation in Syria and Iraq. Yesterday, the Pentagon announced that the U.S. will send 217 additional troops to Iraq, pushing the official number of U.S. troops there to more than 4,000. Mainly Army Special Forces, they will be embedded with Iraqi brigades and battalions. They will be stationed close to front lines. They will include trainers and maintenance crews for the new deployment of Apache helicopters. “More U.S. commandos could also head to Syria, bolstering the roughly 50 special operations forces advising and training rebel forces on the ground. “Just when is the House going to debate and vote on an authorization for deploying U.S. troops in Iraq and Syria? When is the House going to debate these escalations that add more firepower and put more U.S. troops close to the front lines? “Our troops carry out their constitutional duties. When will Congress act and carry out its constitutional responsibility? The American people are tired of endless wars. And putting these wars on remote control – with no debate and no votes – is shameful.” ###
04.18.2016	As President Obama visits Saudi Arabia this week, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) – a leading voice in Congress on human rights – spoke on the House floor to call for the release of Saudi Arabian blogger, Raif Badawi. Badawi was sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes for his liberal writings and support for secularism. His wife and children, fearing for their lives, fled the country and now live in Canada. In today’s speech, Congressman McGovern called on President Obama to use his meeting this week with Saudi Arabian King Salman to urge the pardon of Badawi and allow him to join his family in Canada. Congressman McGovern’s call for Badawi’s release is part of a growing chorus demanding action, including Human Rights Watch, Reporters Without Borders, and a Washington Post editorial this week. Click here for video of today’s speech. Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech is Below: “I stand today on behalf of the Saudi Arabian blogger, Raif Badawi. “In 2014, Saudi Arabian authorities sentenced Raif to ten years in prison and 1,000 lashes for his liberal writings and support for secularism. Today is Raif’s 1,425th day in prison. He has been publicly flogged 50 times, and his wife and children, fearful for their safety, have had to abandon their country for Canada. But Raif is not a criminal; he is a champion of freedom of thought and expression in a kingdom whose rulers fear both. “This week President Obama will travel to Saudi Arabia to meet with leaders of the Gulf Cooperation Council. When the President sees King Salman, he should urge him to pardon Raif and allow him to join his wife and three children in Canada. “I seek the full support of Congress and the Obama Administration in urging the Saudi Arabian government to free Raif, and all other prisoners of conscience like him, as befits any government with a seat on the UN Human Rights Council.” ###
04.15.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) today released the following statements regarding news that House Freedom Caucus members have suggested attaching work requirements for recipients of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits. The news comes just one day after DeLauro and McGovern held a hearing on ‘The Failure of Trickle Down Economics in the War on Poverty.’ “Speaker Ryan likes to talk about tackling poverty, but the latest proposal from extreme Republicans in the House Freedom Caucus would only make it worse. A million of America’s poorest adults are already set to be cut off from food assistance this year and instead of helping these families in need, Republicans are doubling down on cruelty and calling for new excessive work requirements that do nothing to reduce poverty,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “The majority of people who receive SNAP benefits are children, seniors, and people with disabilities and the majority of those who can work, do work. It’s time for Speaker Ryan and House Republicans to stop attacking American families working to escape poverty and start proposing the real bipartisan solutions our country needs.” In Massachusetts, up to 50,000 individuals could lose SNAP benefits this year. With 1 in 6 children in Massachusetts already struggling with hunger and 288,000 low-income children already relying on free or reduced-price lunch in school, Congressman McGovern is committed to stopping extreme proposals like those from House Republicans that would hurt families and communities already in need. “The latest proposal by the House Freedom Caucus once again targets America’s poor, many of whom are children, seniors, and people with disabilities. Are these people expected to work for food? Speaker Ryan and Republicans say that they want to tackle poverty, but imposing additional requirements only serves to cut off a lifeline for millions of Americans who depend on this program each year,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “We must do everything we can to ensure that we are lifting people out of poverty, not pushing them deeper into it. Whether it is drug testing or work requirements, when will Republicans finally end this assault on the nation’s poor?” Many states across the nation are reinstating work requirements and time limits after exemptions expired earlier this year. However, the SNAP program has a strong work incentive. For every additional dollar a SNAP recipient earns, their benefits decline by only 24 to 36 cents – much less than in most other programs. As the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities notes, among SNAP households with at least one working-age, non-disabled adult, more than half work while on the program, and the rates are even higher for families with children. For more than four decades, SNAP has been a fundamental bulwark for the poorest and hungriest people in the nation. Deemed “a government reform that worked” by the National Journal, SNAP serves as the nation’s first line of defense against hunger. Three-fourths of SNAP households are families with children, seniors, or people with disabilities. In 2014 alone, the program helped lift 4.7 million Americans out of poverty, including 2.1 million children. SNAP is also far more effective than any other government program in lifting families out of deep poverty. ###
04.07.2016	Tomorrow, April 8th, at 11:00 a.m. Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will join the new Worcester School Superintendent Maureen Binienda, Family Health Center of Worcester President and CEO Frances Anthes, and other local leaders on a tour of South High School and its health clinic. Congressman McGovern has been a strong supporter of community health centers and health clinics and the important work they do to strengthen access to health care for underserved communities across Massachusetts. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern, Worcester School Superintendent Maureen Binienda, Family Health Center of Worcester President and CEO Frances Anthes, and other Local Leaders WHAT: Tour of South High School Community Health Center WHERE: South High School, 149 Apricot Street, Worcester, MA WHEN: Tomorrow, April 8th, at 11:00AM – 11:45AM ###
04.07.2016	MONTAGUE, MA – Today at 10:00 a.m. Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will visit a Head Start and Child Development Center in Montague to highlight the importance of early learning for Western Massachusetts families and communities. The center serves 34 families at the Head Start Preschool and Full Day Care center. Their mission is to always strive to empower local families and enrich the lives of the children through education and nurturing care. Today’s event is aimed at helping to teach the children that reading every day will make them "Super Heroes" in their lives now and in the future. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern, Teachers, Parents, and Students WHAT: Visit to Head Start and Child Development Center WHERE: Parent-Child Development Center, 110 G Street Turners Falls, Montague, MA WHEN: Today, April 7th, at 10:00AM to 11:00AM ###
04.07.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined Central and Western Massachusetts business and community leaders at Boston Logan Airport for a tour of new banners to help promote tourism of Central and Western Massachusetts. Joining Congressman McGovern today were leaders from Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce, Blackstone Valley Chamber of Commerce, Corridor Nine Area Chamber of Commerce, Greater Northampton Chamber of Commerce, North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce, and the North Quabbin Chamber of Commerce. “Every week I fly back and forth from Washington to Boston and have always thought we should be doing more to promote Massachusetts tourism here at Boston Logan Airport. Today we are celebrating the first step to change that with these new banners that highlight so much of what Central and Western Massachusetts have to offer,” Congressman McGovern said. “Massachusetts tourism pumps $13.5 billion into our state’s economy every year, helping to create jobs and support local businesses. I’m proud to be working with our region’s chambers of commerce to ensure that more of those dollars are coming to Central and Western Massachusetts and look forward to continuing this project in the months ahead.” The launch of the banners follows Congressman McGovern’s Fall 2015 travel and tourism bus tour which brought together business and community leaders from across Central and Western Massachusetts in an effort to raise awareness about Central and Western Massachusetts businesses and grow the region’s economy. In the weeks since the banners have been up at Boston Logan Airport, the Central and Western Massachusetts chambers of commerce have seen increased traffic on their websites and are excited to continue the tourism push. Strengthening Central and Western Massachusetts tourism has been a major focus for Congressman McGovern in helping to grow the region’s economy. ###
04.06.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) continued his affordable housing tour of Central Massachusetts with two events following yesterday’s visit to Linwood Mill Apartments in Northbridge, which received $60,100 in federal low-income tax credits for redevelopment of the historic textile mill to create 75 units of affordable elderly rental housing. Congressman McGovern joined a National Community Development Association (NCDA) event in Worcester to speak about the need to strengthen investments in affordable housing in Worcester and other Massachusetts communities. Following the NCDA event, Congressman McGovern joined local leaders at a ribbon cutting for the grand opening of The Lofts at Loomworks, a 94-unit mixed income community in Worcester. The Loomworks project is a $27 million; two-phase development which created 175 to 200 new construction jobs in the area that involves the adaptive reuse of two vacant and abandoned mill buildings at the former Crompton and Knowles Loomworks complex, and includes include one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments with affordable rents for working families. “In Worcester and throughout Central Massachusetts, increasing access to affordable housing is critical to building strong communities. The Lofts at Loomworks is a clear example of what we can achieve as we work together toward that goal,” Congressman McGovern said. “By bringing Massachusetts leaders together, we can invest in our local communities and strengthen affordable housing for local residents. I look forward to continuing the critical partnerships that make successes like The Lofts at Loomworks possible as we strengthen access to affordable housing for families in Worcester and throughout Central Massachusetts.” Today’s events are part of Congressman McGovern’s ongoing work to promote equitable affordable housing, enhance economic competiveness and build upon community assets to create affordable, economically vital, and sustainable communities throughout Central Massachusetts. Congressman McGovern has long been a leader in the push to strengthen investments in affordable housing and stayed at a Worcester homeless shelter in February 2016 to help raise awareness about the need to do more in Central Massachusetts. ###
04.05.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) toured Linwood Mill Apartments as part of his work to highlight the need for affordable housing in Central Massachusetts. The property was developed by EA Fish Development, which in February 2011 received $60,100 in federal low-income tax credits for redevelopment of the historic textile mill to create 75 units of affordable elderly rental housing. Linwood Mill Apartments is a living community for seniors age 55 and older and is part of the revitalization of the Linwood section of Northbridge in recent years aimed at bringing more business to the area and growing the local economy. Linwood Mill is an example of a strong commitment from the state legislature and town agencies to develop much needed affordable housing in the area and Congressman McGovern’s visit is aimed at continuing that important collaboration. “Increasing access to affordable housing is critical to building strong communities and Linwood Mill Apartments in Northbridge is a clear example of what we can achieve as we work together toward that goal,” Congressman McGovern said. “By bringing Massachusetts leaders together, we were able to invest in this community, helping to revitalize the Linwood section of Northbridge and provide affordable housing to our local seniors. I am grateful to Peabody Properties for their commitment to affordable housing. I look forward to working with public and private sector leaders to continue to strengthen access to affordable housing for families across Massachusetts.” ###
04.04.2016	NEW YORK, NY – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined national health and hunger leaders at the New York Hunger Summit to highlight the staggering costs of hunger as a health issue. Joining today’s summit will be leaders from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), AARP, Feeding America, Hunger Free America, Harvard Law School, Yale University, Columbia University, United Way, as well as elected and anti-hunger leaders from across New York and the region. The summit is hosted by The Root Cause Coalition and the Alliance to End Hunger. Congressman McGovern has long been a national leader on hunger, keeping the issue in the spotlight in Congress and calling for strong investments to help the 48 million Americans who struggle with hunger every year. A recent report estimates that hunger-related healthcare costs the U.S. economy $160 billion annually. Today Congressman McGovern will speak about the need to focus more on hunger as a health issue. Excerpt from Congressman McGovern’s New York Hunger Summit Speech: “Thanks to our federal anti-hunger programs like SNAP, or food stamps, WIC, and the school lunch and breakfast programs, we’ve been able to eliminate the severest cases of hunger and malnutrition that used to exist in this country. “But that doesn’t mean that hunger doesn’t still exist in this country. The face of hunger in the United States can be more subtle and less obvious. But here is the hard reality: There’s not a single congressional district in the U.S. that isn’t impacted by hunger. “We’re the richest country in the history of the world and it’s shameful that even one person goes to bed hungry. And it’s even more shameful that many are children. “For the 48 million Americans who struggle with hunger – access to nutritious foods – and enough ¬ healthy food -- is a real challenge. And we know from a growing body of research that hunger can have serious negative health consequences far beyond simply a growling stomach. “There ought to be a greater focus on nutrition and all of the benefits good nutrition can have on prevent and overall health. And healthcare providers ought to know what hunger looks like.” For more information, contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
04.01.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded today’s announcement that Massachusetts has been selected by the Department of Defense to host a $317 million public-private research partnership called the Revolutionary Fiber and Textile Manufacturing Innovation Institute. The Institute will be based at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) with participation from UMass Amherst, Quinsigamond Community College in Worcester, and a total of 89 manufacturers, universities, and non-profits. “Massachusetts has long been a leader in innovation and this public-private partnership will continue that tradition. Powering the 21st century economy starts with strong investments in the technology of tomorrow and this will ensure that Massachusetts continues to be on the front lines, as we write the next chapter in fiber science,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am proud that UMass Amherst and Quinsigamond Community College will be part of this exciting manufacturing partnership. I thank Secretary Carter for recognizing the incredible work of our Massachusetts schools and look forward to all we will achieve through this partnership.” UMass Amherst will be committing $1 million to the initiative and will focus on research in polymer science and engineering, electrical and computer engineering and computer science. UMass Amherst projects in the initiative will include fiber-integrated sensors, energy generation and storage systems, thermal camouflage and other areas. Quinsigamond Community College will support the education and training of a skilled workers in advanced textiles manufacturing. “We look forward to accelerating the fiber and textile manufacturing workforce in the US, and across Massachusetts,” Dr. Gail Carberry, QCC President stated. QCC will help develop a national community college network and co-develop industry recognized curriculum modules for accelerated, stackable certificates based on local fiber and textile industry demands to crate career pathways through 2-year colleges and beyond. “This Advanced Manufacturing Institute allows us to leverage the significant State and industry investment for QCC’s Innovative Technology Acceleration Center (ITAC) in Southbridge,” Dr. Carberry added. The institute will bring together nontraditional partners to integrate fibers and yarns with integrated circuits, LEDs, solar cells, and other capabilities to create textiles and fabrics that can see, hear, sense, communicate, store energy, regulate temperature, monitor health, change color, and more. For example, the institute will pair the likes of leading audio equipment maker Bose, computer chip maker Intel, and nanofiber manufacturer FibeRio with textile manufacturers and textile users like Warwick Mills, Buhler Yarns, and New Balance. In doing so, the institute will accelerate technology transfer to enable revolutionary defense and commercial applications such as shelters with power generation and storage capacity built into the fabric, ultra-efficient, energy-saving filters for vehicles, and uniforms that can regulate temperature and detect threats like chemical and radioactive elements in order to warn warfighters and first responders. The combination of novel properties such as exceptional strength, flame resistance, reduced weight and electrical conductivity through this institute will lead to significant advancements in this industry. ###
03.29.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) today applauded the announcement from the White House that it is calling for an expansion of specialized treatment for prescription painkiller and heroin addiction and training of medical school students using the newly-released Centers for Disease Control and Prevention prescriber guidelines for opioids. President Obama spoke today at this week’s National RX Drug Abuse and Heroin Summit in Atlanta. “Today President Obama announced new public and private sector actions to strengthen efforts in Massachusetts and across the country to tackle the opioid crisis. Massachusetts families are seeing the devastating impact of the opioid crisis every day and we need strong national leadership to help our communities recover and come back from the brink. “Prevention and treatment must be at the heart of our approach. Today’s actions are essential steps to do just that by expanding access to treatment, preventing overdose deaths and increasing community prevention strategies. With President Obama’s already announced proposal for $1.1 billion in new funding to ensure that all Americans can get the treatment they need, it’s clear that the White House is ready to rise to the challenge. “Nearly 30,000 Americans died from opioid overdose last year – more than 1,300 in Massachusetts – and the need for action has never been greater. I urge my fellow members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to come together to make the serious investments needed to end the opioid crisis once and for all and ensure that every American can get the help they need to recover.” BACKGROUND ON TODAY’S WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCEMENT Click here for a White House Fact Sheet on the new actions announced today: Increasing access to a key drug for medication-assisted treatment The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) is issuing a proposed rule to increase the current patient limit for qualified physicians who prescribe buprenorphine to treat opioid use disorders from 100 to 200 patients with the goal of expanding access to this evidence-based treatment while preventing diversion. The proposed rule aims to increase access to medication-assisted treatment and behavioral health supports for tens of thousands of people with opioid use disorders. Why this matters: Buprenorphine is an FDA-approved drug that, because of its lower potential for abuse, is permitted to be prescribed or dispensed in physician offices, which significantly increases its availability to many patients. When taken as prescribed, buprenorphine is safe and effective. Existing evidence shows that this lifesaving, evidence-based treatment is under-utilized. Updating the regulations around the prescribing of buprenorphine-containing products, as proposed today, would help close this treatment gap. Learn more here. Preventing opioid overdose deaths The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) is releasing a new $11 million funding opportunity to states to purchase and distribute the opioid overdose reversal drug, naloxone, and to train first responders and others on its use along with other overdose prevention strategies. SAMHSA is also releasing a new $11 million funding opportunity for up to 11 states to expand their medication-assisted treatment services. SAMHSA is distributing 10,000 pocket guides for clinicians that include a checklist for prescribing medication for opioid use disorder treatment and integrating non-pharmacologic therapies into treatment. Why this matters: In 2014, nearly 21,000 deaths in the United States involved prescription opioids, and more than 10,500 involved heroin. Naloxone is a prescription drug that can reverse the effects of prescription opioid and heroin overdose, and can be life-saving if administered in time. Addressing the substance use disorder parity in Medicaid HHS is finalizing a rule to strengthen access to mental health and substance use services for people enrolled in Medicaid and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) plans by requiring that these benefits be offered at parity, meaning that they be comparable to medical and surgical benefits. Why this matters: These protections are expected to benefit more than 23 million people in Medicaid and CHIP. These actions build on the President’s proposal for $1.1 billion in new funding to help every American with an opioid use disorder who wants treatment get the help they need. ###
03.29.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) met with the Worcester and Northborough students who won the 2015 Congressional App Challenge for the Massachusetts 2nd Congressional District. The winners included Abby Kelley Foster Charter Public School students Benjamin Duby, Thomas Narusevicious, Anthony Abusamra, and Zach Vance and Algonquin Regional High School students Thomas Hayden, Gustavo Pazi, and Josh Gordon. “I am excited to congratulate these amazing students on these exceptional apps which highlight the importance of computer science and STEM education, great local teachers, and the incredible potential of our young people,” Congressman McGovern said. “The Congressional App Challenge encourages students to be creative and teaches skills that will help to open so many doors to good-paying jobs and exciting careers. To all of our Massachusetts students and teachers, I say keep up the great work. I can’t wait to see all the great apps submitted by our students next year.” The app developed by the Abby Kelley Foster Charter Public School students is for the Android operating system and allows users to record homework assignments and plan their weekly agendas. The app developed by the Algonquin Regional High School students is for the Android operating system and provides useful knowledge for first aid situations on the go. Click here to read more about the Congressional App Challenge. ###
03.28.2016	LEVERETT, MA – Today at 1:00 p.m., Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will speak with Western Massachusetts students, teachers, and parents about Massachusetts politics and ways for students to get involved. Congressman McGovern will be speaking to a class called “This is What Democracy Looks Like,” one of the classes offered by 20-family cooperative of homeschool parents and students that meets each week. Following Congressman McGovern’s remarks, there will be a Q&A with students and teachers. As part of the class, students will be touring the MA State House, meeting local political and community leaders, and observing a town or city council meeting. Homeschool students range in ages from 2-16 and additional classes offered include "DIY DNA Analysis Lab," "Homeschool Show Choir," "Sexual & LGBT Topics," "The Ebola Epidemic in West Africa,” and many others. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern, Homeschool Educators, Students, Community Members WHAT: Discussion with Homeschoolers About WHERE: Toby Friends Meeting House, 194 Long Plain Road, Leverett, MA WHEN: Today, March 28th at 1:00PM – 2:30PM ###
03.14.2016	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the $94 million in funding that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recently announced they will award to 271 health centers in 45 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico to improve and expand the delivery of substance abuse services in health centers, with a specific focus on treatment of opioid use disorders in underserved populations. The funding is provided through the Affordable Care Act. Family Health Center of Worcester (FHCW) is among the health centers receiving funding. FHCW will receive $352,083 to help them expand the access to treatment and ongoing counseling services they provide in an outpatient setting to those who are struggling with opioid addiction. “Families in Massachusetts and across the country know how serious the opioid epidemic is and they know that strong federal investments in our communities are essential to ending this crisis,” Congressman McGovern said. “This new funding will help to expand access to medication-assisted treatment and integrate these services in health centers like the Family Health Center of Worcester. This is essential to helping our communities reduce opioid misuse and abuse and provide people with a path to recovery. I am so proud of the great work the Family Health Center of Worcester is doing and will continue to push for the funds and resources our communities need to strengthen recovery efforts, save lives, and end the opioid crisis.” “Family Health Center of Worcester has provided outpatient Suboxone treatment for opioid-addicted patients in partnership with the Massachusetts Department of Public Health since 2007,” said Frances Anthes, President/CEO of Family Health Center of Worcester. “This new federal grant award is a recognition of the tremendous need in Worcester County, and will allow Family Health Center to expand access to treatment and ongoing counseling services in an outpatient setting.” ###
03.11.2016	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) announced that he will join President Obama on his upcoming trip to Cuba on March 21-22. President Obama’s trip to Cuba will be the first for a sitting president in 88 years. Joining President Obama and Congressman McGovern on the Cuba Trip will be First Lady Michelle Obama, senior White House officials, and other members of Congress. “It is an honor to be joining President Obama on this month’s historic trip to Cuba as we take another strong step forward in U.S.-Cuba relations. Americans have long been ready for a 21st century approach to Cuba and with our two nations working together, we can create new opportunities for American businesses, increase travel and exchange, and support efforts in Cuba to advance democratic reforms and promote human rights,” Congressman McGovern said. “I was proud to stand with Secretary Kerry as the American flag was once again raised over the U.S. Embassy in Havana last summer and look forward to joining President Obama in Cuba this month as we continue to build on the progress that has already been achieved.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress in the push normalize U.S.-Cuba relations and find ways to connect the two nations’ citizens through expanded travel, commerce, and access to information. In August 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry in Havana for the re-opening of the U.S. Embassy in Cuba and in December 2015, Congressman McGovern launched a bipartisan Cuba Working Group to build on the historic progress already achieved under President Obama’s new policy. Members of the Cuba Working Group are supporters of one or more key pieces of legislation introduced in 2015, with Republicans as the lead sponsors. Taken together, these bills repeal economic and travel restrictions and would effectively eliminate the U.S. embargo on Cuba: The Cuba Trade Act of 2015 would allow U.S. businesses in the private sector to trade with Cuba without restrictions; The Cuba Digital and Telecommunications Advancement Act (Cuba DATA Act) would allow U.S. telecommunications and internet companies to provide services to the island; The Cuba Agriculture Exports Act would allow for U.S. investment in privately owned Cuban agriculture businesses; The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act of 2015 would allow all U.S. citizens to travel to Cuba. Senate committees have passed significant legislation to lift the travel ban on Cuba and widen trade with bipartisan support. The House of Representatives has been more reticent to move U.S. policy forward, making this Cuba working group even more important. Increasing trade, travel and investment in Cuba will not only open new markets and create jobs in both countries, but promote human rights and better hemispheric relations. Public opinion polls over the past year have shown an increasing support to end the Cuban trade embargo and change course on U.S.-Cuba relations. The most recent Pew poll showed 73 percent of the American people, including 59 percent of Republicans favor ending the trade embargo. The bi-partisan Congressional Working Group will now take leadership to match the growing public support for a new U.S. policy towards Cuba. ###
03.10.2016	WORECESTER and Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) rode from Worcester to Boston to highlight a permanent increase in the commuter tax benefit for mass transit riders that was included in a bipartisan multi-year tax package that was signed into law in December 2015. Joining Congressman McGovern were MassDOT Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack, MBTA General Manager Frank DePaola, Association for Commuter Transportation (ACT) Executive Director David Strauss,and Edenred COO Meltam Korkmazel as well as leaders from T4Mass, ABC TMA, and MassCommute. As a result, mass transit commuters in Massachusetts and around the country will be able to receive up to $255 a month in transit benefits. Congressman McGovern has long championed commuter benefit parity, introducing legislation, playing a key role getting it included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and fighting to extend and make it permanent. “Helping Massachusetts commuters by restoring this mass transit benefit has been a top priority for me and I’m glad that both parties came together in December to make this benefit permanent,” Congressman McGovern said. “This is a big win for Massachusetts, creating big savings for the thousands of workers who take the train to Boston every day and offering employers another great benefit they can use to attract top talent. I look forward to riding from Worcester to Boston to talk about all the ways this will help our families and grow the economy.” BACKGROUND: The ‘Commuter Benefit Parity Act of 2015’ was a bipartisan bill to establish parity between the parking and transit portions of the transportation fringe benefit by setting the monthly caps for both at $235 per month. This benefit was increased to $255 per month in the final legislation passed in December. Permanent parity assists commuters in creating permanent changes to the way they commute, moving toward increased ridership of subways, buses and vanpools and significantly reducing the congestion on our roadways. Because of Congressional inaction up until December 2015, the cost for commuters who use the transit benefit practically doubled in recent years. While the parking benefit has remained at $245 a year, the transit benefit dropped to $125, leaving almost 3 million of America’s commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden. Congressman McGovern helped lead the bipartisan effort in recent years to bring permanent parity to transit and parking pre-tax benefits. ###
03.08.2016	WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9th: McGovern to Visit Athol Schools to Highlight School Meals, Tour New Facilities ATHOL, MA – Tomorrow at 8:00AM, Congressman Jim McGovern, will visit Pleasant Street Elementary School in Athol as he continues to raise awareness about National School Breakfast Week and encourage state and local leaders to support ways to increase student access to school meals. During Congressman McGovern’s visit, he will highlight the free breakfast and lunch programs available to students in the district. Congressman McGovern is a champion of childhood hunger issues and will highlight how the School Breakfast Program presents a huge opportunity to ensure that students in Athol and throughout Massachusetts, especially those who live with food insecurity, can get the nutrition they need to succeed in the classroom and beyond. Congressman McGovern will also tour other campuses in the Athol School District, including Riverbend Elementary School, Sanders Street Elementary School, and the new Athol Community Elementary School (ACES) to hear about the success of each campus in strengthening instruction and the new ACES campus. 8:00AM - 8:45AM: Visit to Pleasant Street Elementary School WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Pleasant Street Elementary School Officials WHAT: Visit to Pleasant Street Elementary School to Highlight School Meals WHERE: Pleasant St. Elementary School, 1060 Pleasant St, Athol 9:00AM - 11:15AM: Tour of Athol School District WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Athol School Officials,​ 9:00AM: Riverbend Elementary School 9:45AM: Sanders Street Elementary School 10:30AM: The new Athol Community Elementary School WHAT: Tour of Each Campus to Meet with School Officials, Hear About Recent Successes Media can RSVP by contacting Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.hosue.gov. ###
03.04.2016	FLINT, MI – Representatives Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Katherine Clark (MA-05) joined a congressional delegation to Flint, Michigan, to hear directly from residents affected by the city’s ongoing water crisis. In addition to McGovern and Clark, the twenty-five other Members of Congress joined the trip to Flint, including Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (SC-06), and leaders of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Progressive Caucus. While in Flint, the members toured the city and held a ‘Speak Out’ to hear directly from families affected by the water crisis. The members also received a briefing from Dr. Nicole Lurie, the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness Response at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, that provided an update on current federal response efforts. The briefing also allowed the members to discuss additional resources needed in Flint. Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) said: “Americans across the country are outraged by the tragedy here in Flint. As Dr. King once said, ‘injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.’ We simply cannot stand by while our fellow Americans – including thousands of innocent children – are suffering. We are here today because we wanted to meet with the local leaders and families who are confronting this crisis, hear their stories, and stand up for them in Washington. Congressman Kildee is a powerful champion for these families and we are proud to join him in this effort to ensure that justice is done. Flint families deserve answers from the leaders who failed them and solutions that will help them recover. We are committed to doing everything we can in Congress to send the resources they need and ensure that those who are responsible will be held accountable. The families of Flint deserve nothing less.” Congresswoman Katherine Clark (MA-05) said: “As a mom, I can’t imagine the horror parents must have felt after learning their children were being poisoned by the water coming into their homes and schools. It’s outrageous that it takes an emergency like this to underscore that vulnerable families are hit hardest when budgets are slashed without regard for health and safety. I want my colleagues to hear the stories we bring back from Flint so that we can ensure the resources that Flint’s families need to care for their children, fix the problem permanently, and make sure this never happens again to any of our nation’s children.” EFFORTS IN CONGRESS Last month, Congressman McGovern co-sponsored legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives in response to the Flint water crisis, focusing on immediate and long-term investments for Flint. The Families of Flint Act would make critical investments in infrastructure repairs, wrap-around services for families and children exposed to lead, economic development for Flint and long-term health monitoring for city residents. Since the decision to switch the city of Flint’s water source was made by a state-appointed emergency financial manager, the legislation would require state-matching funds equal to the total of the federal bill. Additionally, the U.S. House of Representatives has already passed the bipartisan Safe Drinking Water Improved Compliance Awareness Act, which would strengthen requirements to have the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) step in to notify the public when concentrations of lead in drinking water are above federal requirements. The bill, supported overwhelmingly by Democrats and Republicans, passed the House 416 to 2 on February 10, 2016. In addition to Representatives McGovern and Clark, the congressional delegation to Flint included: Democratic Leader Pelosi, Assistant Democratic Leader Clyburn, House Democratic Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI) and Representatives Dan Kildee, Keith Ellison (MN-05), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), John Conyers (MI-13), Sander Levin (MI-09), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), , Yvette Clarke (NY-09), Susan Davis (CA-53), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Donald M. Payne Jr. (NJ-10), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Bobby Scott (VA-03), and Maxine Waters (CA-43) Congressman Dan Kildee (MI-05) said: “Flint is a strong community and our families are tough people. “While this crisis is a setback for our community, I know we will emerge from this tragedy. Flint families just need the resources to overcome this crisis. State decisions created this crisis, and the state of Michigan must step up and do more to help. The federal government, including the President and numerous federal agencies, has already helped in many ways. Congress should also act without delay to help Flint recover from this man-made crisis.” House Democratic Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-34) said: “No parent should have to worry about the water their kids drink or the safety of their back yards. It’s outrageous that lead poisoning is an ongoing issue affecting families in Flint and across the country. In the Los Angeles area, including in my district, we are confronting a possible environmental crisis due to contamination from a lead battery plant that could affect up to 10,000 homes. Families want solutions and they need action now.” Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chairman Keith Ellison (MN-05) said: “What is happening to families in Flint is a tragedy. Every level of government must act in a coordinated effort to solve this crisis. Members of Congress are going to Flint to listen to residents directly and see first-hand what their needs are. With investments in health, education and infrastructure, the children of Flint can live successful, healthy lives. We cannot turn our backs on them, or the children of any other city like it. We must act.” Congressional Black Caucus Chairman G.K. Butterfield (NC-01): “The CBC was among the first to demand a thorough federal investigation of the Flint water crisis and we will be visiting with Flint families to further amplify the urgency of this health and environmental crisis. The harm experienced by the residents of Flint is irreversible and multi-generational. Governor Snyder has been a central figure in the decision-making process that led to the water crisis and we look forward to his testimony before the Committee. The lack of oversight and accountability demands a thorough investigation and we have come to Flint to remind them that elected officials will not ignore this crisis. We will hold the right parties accountable for the lack of oversight and accountability that has led to more than 10,000 children unknowingly being exposed to dangerous amounts of lead in their drinking water. This crisis demands more and we must all do our part to ensure the citizens of Flint have the resources they need, both in the short- and long-term.” ###
03.02.2016	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) hosted a press conference with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer, Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra, senior House Democrats, and anti-poverty advocates to call for strong investments in anti-poverty programs to help more families get back on their feet as the economy continues to recover. Last week, Speaker Paul Ryan announced the members of a new GOP task force on poverty, but the House Republicans he selected have fought throughout their careers to enact policies that target the most vulnerable Americans instead of helping them. At today’s press conference, House Democrats continued to call on House Republicans to work in a bipartisan way to help the 46 million Americans living in poverty by strengthening anti-poverty programs and rejecting the failed austerity policies of past Republican Congresses. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA): “We live in the richest, most powerful country in the world and yet 46 million of our fellow citizens are in poverty – including more than 15 million kids. Speaker Ryan recently announced a new Republican taskforce to tackle poverty, but every single Republican on the taskforce voted to cut SNAP by $40 billion and gut so many other programs that help low-income families. House Democrats are committed to working on a comprehensive plan to end poverty and to end hunger. We believe it is achievable. There are things that we can do better. But none of us will be silent in the face of Republican attempts to bring to a halt the war on poverty. We must be part of the solution and we must work together to build ladders of opportunity so that every family can achieve the American Dream.” Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi: "We need to confront poverty in America with fresh eyes and new thinking. If Republicans want to join Democrats in a meaningful bipartisan conversation on poverty, we welcome them. But Republicans’ tired, trickle down agenda is no solution for struggling Americans." Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer: “Today, I was proud to join Rep. McGovern and House Democrats to urge Speaker Ryan and House Republicans to work with us to take meaningful action to address poverty. In 2013, I joined Rep. Barbara Lee to form the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity to raise awareness about poverty in America and develop measures to lift Americans out of poverty and into the middle class. While I appreciate Speaker Ryan’s creation of the Republican task force, House Republicans have consistently pursued policies that directly target the most vulnerable Americans and it remains to be seen whether they will follow up the creation of their task force with real, meaningful action. I hope that they will do so and work with Democrats to invest in proven anti-poverty programs so that we can tackle the ongoing crisis of poverty and expand opportunity for more Americans.” Democratic Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra: “Republicans only offer lip service to working Americans who live only a paycheck from poverty. And they've sucker-punched the middle class. We have to get back to rewarding hard work so that hardworking people like my parents, a clerical worker and construction worker, can have the chance to own their own home, send their kids to college and earn a secure retirement." Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA): “Congressional Democrats have long been committed to building ladders out of poverty for working families. As Republicans form their new task force on poverty, I hope we can achieve bipartisan consensus to help struggling Americans. But their words must be backed up by action. We know what works to end poverty: creating jobs, strengthening the safety net, building pathways into the middle class, and providing economic opportunity for all. It’s past time to invest in American families, rather than continue failed Republican policies of cut, cut, cut.” Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT): “Speaker Ryan and Republican House Members say that we spend trillions of dollars on social safety net programs and yet the poverty rate does not change. This is simply not true. Without these critical programs, more Americans would live in poverty. We must fight these unconscionable attacks on America’s poor working families, and I urge my colleagues to stand with me in ensuring that the federal budget does not harm working families and children by decimating our social safety net programs.” Congresswoman Alma Adams (D-NC): "I find it ironic that the House GOP's poverty task force is comprised of members of Congress who blatantly attacked critical programs that help those in need. I challenge House Republicans to make good on their word by working with House Democrats to raise the minimum wage, strengthen critical education and housing programs and ensure those in need have access to quality, nutritious food." ###
02.26.2016	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), joined fellow House Democrats Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) in introducing new legislation to protect children and other vulnerable groups in immigration proceedings by ensuring access to counsel, legal orientation programs, and other post-release services. “Today’s bill is an important step to protect migrant children and other vulnerable groups who come to this country and ensure they have the legal resources they need to navigate immigration proceedings. In 2014, thousands of young children left the danger and chaos of their homes in Central America in search of a safe haven,” Congressman McGovern said. “Many were literally fleeing for their lives and it is moments like these when American values of fairness and due process must not be abandoned. “I have been to the U.S.-Mexico border, I’ve met with many of these children and families, and I’ve heard firsthand what they endured and the dangers they left behind,” McGovern added. “I am proud to stand with House Democrats in introducing this important bill and urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to give it the consideration it deserves.” Under current law, there is no right to appointed counsel in immigration removal proceedings, even if the respondent is a child. An overwhelming majority of children without attorneys are ordered deported while children with attorneys are five times more likely to be granted protection. The Fair Day in Court for Kids Act ensures due process for children and vulnerable individuals, and offers an alternative to ICE raids that deport vulnerable children to dangerous countries where they face threats of violence, abuse, or even death. In August 2014, Congressman McGovern traveled on a two-day fact-finding mission to the U.S.-Mexico border to learn about the child migrant crisis. He met with Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and agents and other front-line border personnel and also visited migrant shelters in both countries run by religious communities who provide basic services to these vulnerable migrants. Click here for more information on Congressman McGovern’s trip to the U.S.-Mexico border. BACKGROUND – FAIR DAY IN COURT FOR KIDS ACT: Requires the government to appoint counsel to children, and vulnerable individuals, including those with disabilities and victims of abuse, torture, or violence. Requires the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Attorney General to establish procedures to ensure that legal orientation programs are available to all detained immigrants. Creates a case management pilot project to increase court appearance rates. Requires DHS to submit reports to Congress on the number of individuals identified in the Act who were represented by counsel and the number of individuals who received legal orientation presentations. ###
02.25.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House floor today about his recent overnight stay at the Interfaith Hospitality Network (IHN) of Greater Worcester, a local homeless shelter. This was Congressman McGovern’s second time staying at the shelter and part of his ongoing efforts to raise awareness about homelessness and increase support for efforts to reduce it in Massachusetts and across the country. Click here to watch the video of today’s speech. Full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below: “Last week during our district work period, I spent the night at the Interfaith Hospitality Network, a family homeless shelter in Worcester, Massachusetts. This was my second time spending a night there in recent years. It was a wonderful opportunity to hear firsthand the stories of families who are facing tough times and to see the incredible support provided by groups like IHN. “In today’s media environment where every development in the presidential campaign gets a breaking news banner, it’s easy to lose sight of the real issues impacting real families and homelessness is one of them. In 2015, more than 500,000 Americans were homeless on any given night. Of that number, more than 200,000 were people in families and nearly 50,000 were veterans. “Even in Massachusetts, one of the richest states in the nation, homelessness continues to be a challenge in many of our communities. In recent years, state budget cuts have led to a record number of homeless children in Massachusetts and the overall uptick in homelessness has led to overcrowding in shelters with thousands of families being turned away. “In the richest country on the planet, it is simply astonishing that anyone is homeless, but the fact is this continues to be a persistent problem. Fortunately, there are amazing organizations like the Interfaith Hospitality Network that are making a difference. “IHN works in partnership with the faith community to provide shelter and assistance to families with children who are homeless. Their primary goals are to assist families in increasing their income and to help them secure permanent housing, while providing the critical support services necessary for them to succeed. “It’s a ‘community bed shelter’ that provides private bedrooms and shared living areas for six families at a time who are homeless but don’t qualify for state-funded shelters. “One of the points that the people I met made very eloquently was that sometimes life is very complicated and sometimes things don’t work out as you expect them to. “Many of the families that I met during my stay included at least one working parent. But they had fallen into the gap where they earned too little to make ends meet but too much to qualify for other housing assistance programs. “Some of the residents included college-educated parents with families that fell on hard times - maybe a parent is sick or a child’s sick, or a parent got laid off from a job. Those families are not there because they made poor choices; there were a series of events that led to this. One thing parents at the shelter have in common is that they love their kids more than anything and are working tirelessly to get back on their feet. “The families at IHN are not charged rent and work with a caseworker to budget and save money for their own apartments. The caseworker also helps families access necessary health care or counseling, learn job skills, enroll in job training or educational classes, and assists them with other life issues. “IHN is a very special place. It’s a home. It’s comfortable. It’s safe. Families prepare and eat dinner together. Children do their homework together, color in coloring books, and play games. IHN provides a sense of normalcy during times of turmoil and uncertainty for families. “With each visit to the IHN shelter in Worcester, I am inspired to see that within our community, there are so many wonderful people who care about their neighbors who are going through difficult times and who want to get back on their feet. The volunteers and staff are incredible people. Places like IHN represent the best of our community and there is a real need for places like this. “Too often in this chamber, I have heard colleagues demonize and disparage America’s poorest families. But those who are homeless don’t fit into a stereotype. Every family faces different challenges. It’s hard work to be poor in America and the families I met are working hard for a better life for their kids. We should be helping them get back on their feet, not kicking them while they’re down, and certainly, we should not be indifferent to their struggles. “To help more of these families get ahead, we must do more at the national level to strengthen the social safety net to better address homelessness, food insecurity, and poverty and many other issues which deserve to be front and center. “Looking at the big picture, we need to be talking about how we can make sure that work pays enough so that all working families can afford rent and place to live, and be able to put food on the table for their kids. We might start by increasing, at long last, the federal minimum wage so that it’s a livable wage. If you work in this country, you ought not to be poor and you ought certainly not to be homeless. “In the richest country on the planet, I know we can solve homelessness. Spending a night at a homeless shelter is an incredible experience and I encourage more of my colleagues to do the same in their districts. “Those of us who serve in Congress are blessed that we don’t have to worry if we’ll have a roof over our heads on any given night. But there are many families, too many families, in this country who do. We need to do a better job of listening to their stories and lending a helping hand so they can get out of their difficult situations and move on to a better life. “I urge my colleagues to listen what I said today and do what I did and spend a night at a homeless shelter in their district.” ###
02.18.2016	In response to today’s White House announcement that President Obama will travel to Cuba next month, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a leading champion for modernizing U.S.-Cuba relations, released the following statement. “President Obama’s announcement that he will travel to Cuba next month marks another strong step forward in U.S.-Cuba relations,” Congressman McGovern said. “Americans have long been ready for a 21st century approach to Cuba and the president’s trip will build on the progress already made since he announced our new policy. With this trip, we are ready to close the book on the outdated Cold War policy that divided us for so many years and embrace the power of diplomacy. I was proud to stand with Secretary Kerry as the American flag was once again raised over the U.S. Embassy in Havana last summer and this is only the beginning. “With our two nations working together, we can create new opportunities for American businesses, increase travel and exchange, and support efforts in Cuba to advance democratic reforms and promote human rights,” McGovern added. “In December, I joined Republicans and Democrats to launch a bipartisan working group on Cuba to advance legislation in Congress that will build on the progress we have made in the last 14 months. Today, we are once again seeing American diplomacy on display and I look forward to continuing to work with the president to move our Cuba policy forward.” In August 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry in Havana for the re-opening of the U.S. Embassy in Cuba and in December 2015, Congressman McGovern launched a bipartisan Cuba Working Group to build on the historic progress already achieved under President Obama’s new policy. Members of the Cuba Working Group are supporters of one or more key pieces of legislation introduced in 2015, with Republicans as the lead sponsors. Taken together, these bills repeal economic and travel restrictions and would effectively eliminate the U.S. embargo on Cuba: The Cuba Trade Act of 2015 would allow U.S. businesses in the private sector to trade with Cuba without restrictions; The Cuba Digital and Telecommunications Advancement Act (Cuba DATA Act) would allow U.S. telecommunications and internet companies to provide services to the island; The Cuba Agriculture Exports Act would allow for U.S. investment in privately owned Cuban agriculture businesses; The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act of 2015 would allow all U.S. citizens to travel to Cuba. Senate committees have passed significant legislation to lift the travel ban on Cuba and widen trade with bipartisan support. The House of Representatives has been more reticent to move U.S. policy forward, making this Cuba working group even more important. Increasing trade, travel and investment in Cuba will not only open new markets and create jobs in both countries, but promote human rights and better hemispheric relations. Public opinion polls over the past year have shown an increasing support to end the Cuban trade embargo and change course on U.S.-Cuba relations. The most recent Pew poll showed 73 percent of the American people, including 59 percent of Republicans favor ending the trade embargo. The bi-partisan Congressional Working Group will now take leadership to match the growing public support for a new U.S. policy towards Cuba. ###
02.12.2016	On the House floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) called out a Republican bill introduced yesterday that would let states use drug testing to determine low-income Americans’ eligibility to receive food assistance through SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. Congressman McGovern has consistently called for Congress to strengthen SNAP and has cautioned against opening the Farm Bill to make changes to the anti-hunger program. Click here to watch the speech online. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below: “I rise today to oppose a Republican bill introduced yesterday that would let states use drug testing to determine low-income Americans’ eligibility to receive food assistance through SNAP, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program. “This is nothing more than an attempt to demonize poor people and has no basis in reality. “Similar laws in Florida and Georgia were struck down as unconstitutional and only waste thousands of taxpayer dollars to identify very few drug users. In fact, those receiving public assistance actually test positive at a lower rate than the general population. “Why aren’t my Republican colleagues calling for drug testing for wealthy CEOs and oil company executives who receive taxpayer subsidies? Why is it that they always pick on poor people? It’s a lousy thing to do. “SNAP is intended to help people put food on the table when they’re struggling to find work, when their current job isn’t paying enough, or simply when they’ve fallen on hard times. “We should be talking about improving the SNAP benefit so families can afford nutritious food – not creating more insulting hoops for vulnerable families to have to jump through.” ###
02.10.2016	Today, U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern, Barbara Lee, Walter Jones, Adam Schiff, Peter Welch and 20 other Members of Congress sent a bipartisan letter to Speaker Paul Ryan calling for a debate and vote on the year-plus, multi-billion dollar war raging in the Middle East. "In November, a bipartisan group of 35 House lawmakers urged Speaker Ryan to bring an AUMF to the House floor for a debate and vote. We were pleased to hear Speaker Ryan include this as a priority for 2016. Today, I join with my colleagues in calling on him to deliver on that promise,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) said. “Americans deserve a Congress that will honor its constitutional responsibility when it comes to war and authorizing military force. Our brave men and women in uniform deserve nothing less." The letter, addressed to Speaker Ryan, cites language included in the omnibus spending bill that finds “Congress has a constitutional duty to debate and determine whether or not to authorize the use of military force against ISIL.” In the State of the Union, President Obama renewed his call for a Congressional debate on the AUMF. He said, “If this Congress is serious about winning this war, and wants to send a message to our troops and the world, authorize the use of military force against ISIL. Take a vote.” “Tomorrow will mark one year since President Obama sent Congress a draft AUMF. Over the last 365 days, it has sat on the Speaker’s desk while our nation has become increasingly more embroiled in yet another costly and endless war in the Middle East,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA). “The Constitution is clear: Congress has a responsibility to debate and vote on matters of war and peace. The American people deserve better than a Congress that abdicates this sacred responsibility.” "For 15 years, the American people have felt the cost and pain of war in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have spent over $1.5 trillion and lost over 6,800 brave men and women. ISIL is a new and distinct threat, and the American people expect Congress to meet its constitutional responsibility to have a debate and a vote on whether yet another war is worth the grave cost,” said Congressman Jones (R-NC). “Nearly 18 months into the military operation against ISIS, and a year since the President submitted a draft Authorization for Use of Military Force, Congress continues to abdicate its responsibility to consider a new AUMF to authorize the war against ISIS,” said Congressman Adam Schiff (D-CA), Ranking Member on the House Intelligence Committee. “There are a variety of different approaches and ideas to authorize the campaign against ISIS, al Qaeda and the Taliban, and Congressional leadership must allow a full and open debate and vote on the matter. The power to declare war is one of Congress most solemn responsibilities and if our troops are willing to do their jobs -- and they are -- Congress should have the guts to do its job.” “The Constitution is clear. It is the responsibility of Congress to authorize the use of military force. Yet, since military operations against ISIL began in August 2014, Congress has been absent.” Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT) said. “It’s inexcusable. A service member has died. Taxpayers have spent more than $5.8 billion on airstrikes in Iraq and Syria. Speaker Ryan acknowledged that a declaration of war is the responsibility of Congress. He is right. It’s time for Congress to debate and vote on America’s strategy to defeat of ISIL.” Click here to view the letter online. Full text of the letter is below: February 10, 2016 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232, U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan: We write to follow up on our request that you bring before the House a formal authorization for the use of military force (AUMF) against the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) or Daesh. We commend your statements in December 2015 in support of updating an AUMF to reflect U.S. efforts against ISIL in Iraq and Syria and agree with your statement that “Congress is the one who declares war. This is Congress’ responsibility.” Further, we appreciate your recent efforts to explore support within your Caucus for a debate and a vote on an ISIL-AUMF. While members may have differing views on the scope of a new authorization for the use of military force, we can all agree that Congress has a Constitutional duty to debate and declare war. Indeed, the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill included Sense of Congress language adopted on a bipartisan basis in the House Appropriations Committee stating that: Congress finds that – The United States has been engaged in military operations against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) for more than 8 months; President Obama submitted an authorization for the use of military force against ISIL in February 2015; and Under article 1, section 8 of the Constitution, Congress has the authority to “declare war”. (b) Therefore, Congress has a constitutional duty to debate and determine whether or not to authorize the use of military force against ISIL. Congress cannot continue to abdicate its constitutional authority to authorize military action abroad. We stand ready to work with you to prioritize the consideration of an authorization for the use of military force against ISIL before the House as soon as possible. Sincerely, ###
02.05.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 151,000 jobs in January, the unemployment rate fell to 4.9 percent – an eight-year low, and average hourly wages have now by 2.5 percent over the past 12 months. Following the creation of 262,000 jobs last month, January represents the 71st consecutive month of private sector job growth: “With today’s jobs report, it is clear that 2016 is off to a solid start and our economy is continuing to move in the right direction. In January, our economy added 151,000 jobs and the unemployment rate dropped to 4.9 percent – the lowest it has been in eight years. Additionally, wage growth is showing momentum with average hourly wages up 2.5 percent in the last year. With a record 71 straight months of job growth, I am pleased to see more Americans, in Massachusetts and across the country, getting back to work. “While our economy continues to recover, we know there is still have more work to do. Congress must do its part to help create more good-paying jobs and raise the wages of hardworking Americans in Massachusetts and across the country. It’s disappointing that House Republicans have instead spent January recycling more of their partisan bills that do nothing to help grow the economy. “Building an economy that works for everyone starts with both parties coming together and I urge my Republican colleagues to join House Democrats as we work to support continued job growth, help increase the paychecks of hardworking families, and strengthen access to the middle class so the American Dream is within reach for all who seek it.” ###
02.04.2016	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded President Obama’s proposal to fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) to support public lands in Massachusetts and across the country. In December 2015, Congressman McGovern joined Republicans and Democrats to pass the bipartisan Omnibus appropriations bill that reauthorized the LWCF for three years to strengthen the conservation efforts it supports. In his FY17 budget, President Obama calls for investing $900 million in conservation and recreation projects – with a portion of the revenues from offshore oil and gas drilling that are deposited in the fund each year – through a combination of discretionary ($475 million) and mandatory ($425 million) funding. This culminates a multi-year strategy leading to full permanent funding for the Fund in 2018. “Massachusetts has benefitted greatly from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and this proposal to fully fund the program is a strong step as we work to continue all the good it has accomplished,” Congressman McGovern said. “From the Midstate Trail in Princeton to the Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge in Central Massachusetts, the LWCF has helped to bring millions of dollars to Massachusetts, preserving our beautiful open spaces and pumping money into our local economies. “In December, I was proud to join Democrats and Republicans in Congress as we came together to reauthorize and support the LWCF, but we need to do more,” McGovern added. “Fully funding the program is the next step to ensure we do all we can to protect our great outdoors in Massachusetts and across the country. I will continue to work with the White House and members of Congress to ensure we fulfill that promise for today’s families and the next generation.” These investments proposed in President Obama’s FY17 Budget – using voluntary conservation tools like easements and purchases from willing sellers – respond to local communities’ priorities. They will conserve public lands in or near national parks, refuges, and forests, including landscapes identified for collaborative, strategic conservation; increase access for hunting and fishing; protect historic battlefields; and provide grants to states for close-to-home recreation and conservation projects on non-federal lands. In fact, the program has supported more than 42,000 national, state and local parks and outdoor recreation projects in all 50 states. Click here to read more about President Obama’s proposal to fully fund the LWCF. ###
02.02.2016	Ahead of this week’s White House meeting between President Obama and Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos, a bipartisan group of 57 House lawmakers called on President Obama today to support the Colombian peace process. In today’s letter, led by Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, the group of lawmakers strongly encouraged President Obama “to use this opportunity not only to reinforce our past alliance, but to emphasize how the United States intends to provide immediate and on-going support for the implementation of Colombia’s peace accords, should negotiations conclude successfully in the near future.” The lawmakers noted that with the significant funding the U.S. already provided to support Plan Colombia, an effort to help Colombia combat the security crisis they faced in the late 1990s and early 2000s, the U.S. “needs to demonstrate that same commitment to peace now.” In the letter, the lawmakers added that they “support the Colombian negotiations that seek to end over five decades of conflict that has deeply wounded all sectors of Colombian society” and urged President Obama “ to provide robust and concrete support to implementing the peace accords, and to express continuing concern regarding the security and ability of human rights defenders to carry out their vital work.” “When discussing how to advance the best practices and values of the Colombian armed forces as it prepares to take up new responsibilities in a post-conflict society,” the lawmakers concluded, “we urge you to emphasize the need for the Colombian criminal justice system to work its will before rewarding with promotions military officers under investigation for allegations of serious human rights crimes.” Click here to read the letter online. In addition to Congressman McGovern, the letter was signed by Representatives Joseph Pitts (R-PA); Sam Farr (D-CA); John Lewis (D-GA); Dina Titus (D-NV); John Yarmuth (D-KY); Bill Keating (D-MA); Debbie Dingell (D-MI); Earl Blumenauer (D-OR); Alan Grayson (D-FL); Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA); Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL); Alan Lowenthal (D-CA); Karen Bass (D-CA); Mark Pocan (D-WI); Richard Neal (D-MA); Jim McDermott (D-WA); Michael Capuano (D-MA); Jared Polis (D-CO); Raul Grijalva (D-AZ); Tony Cardenas (D-CA); John Larson (D-CT); Michael Honda (D-CA); Katherine Clark (D-MA); Luis Gutierrez (D-IL); Steve Cohen (D-TN); John Conyers (D-MI); Paul Tonko (D-NY); Rosa DeLauro (D-CT); Alcee Hastings (D-FL); Charles Rangel (D-NY); Jan Schakowsky (D-IL); Stephen Lynch (D-MA); Yvette Clark (D-NY); Peter DeFazio (D-OR); Hank Johnson Jr. (D-FL); Marcy Kaptur (D-OH); Barbara Lee (D-CA); Maxine Waters (D-CA); Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX); David Cicilline (D-RI); Betty McCollum (D-MN); Chellie Pingree (D-ME); Jose Serrano (D-NY); Keith Ellison (DFL-MN); Norma Torres (D-CA); Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR); Donna Edwards (D-MD); Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA); Niki Tsongas (D-MA); John Garamendi (D-CA); Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY); Danny K. Davis (D-IL); Peter Welch (D-VT); Joseph P. Kennedy III (D-MA); and Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA). The full text of the letter is below: February 2, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama, We were very pleased to learn that you have extended an invitation to Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos to come and meet with you here in Washington, D.C. during the first week of February. We strongly encourage you to use this opportunity not only to reinforce our past alliance, but to emphasize how the United States intends to provide immediate and on-going support for the implementation of Colombia’s peace accords, should negotiations conclude successfully in the near future. As you well know, Colombia is at a hopeful but critical juncture. The current peace negotiations offer the possibility that decades of internal armed conflict may be brought to an end. But the signing of agreements will only be the beginning of the process of constructing a durable peace. As often noted, implementing the peace accords and establishing the conditions under which peace and reconciliation might take hold will be a significant and long term undertaking. We believe the United States, which provided so much funding and support for Plan Colombia, needs to demonstrate that same commitment to the peace. We also urge you to take this opportunity to raise some of the many serious human rights issues that continue to afflict Colombia. Specifically, we urge you to raise with President Santos your deep concern regarding the increase in murders and threats against human rights defenders, labor activists, community leaders, journalists, and Afro-Colombian and indigenous leaders. These leaders are the very human capital that Colombia needs so desperately to consolidate, expand and implement the peace, reconciliation and national reconstruction promises embodied in the peace accords. Yet at the same time that the homicide rate overall in Colombia is declining, threats against and murders of these human rights leaders have increased. In addition, it will be critical for Colombian civil society – especially those vulnerable communities that have been victims of violence – to have confidence in the country’s criminal justice system and be reassured that all of Colombia’s institutions, including the military, are dedicated to assisting victims, uncovering the truth, and ensuring that violence will not be perpetrated on them again. These are fundamental elements of the peace agreements under negotiation. In this light, we are gravely concerned by the Ministry of Defense’s recent announcement to nominate for promotion to the rank of general, or to attend special military courses in preparation for such a promotion, several military officers who are under investigation by the Attorney General’s Office for possible involvement extrajudicial murders. Before granting these officers such a highly valued promotion, Colombia’s criminal justice system should be allowed to complete its investigations into these cases and either exonerate or indict those accused as the evidence warrants. Mr. President, please know that we support the Colombian negotiations that seek to end over five decades of conflict that has deeply wounded all sectors of Colombian society. We urge you to provide robust and concrete support to implementing the peace accords, and to express continuing concern regarding the security and ability of human rights defenders to carry out their vital work. Finally, when discussing how to advance the best practices and values of the Colombian armed forces as it prepares to take up new responsibilities in a post-conflict society, we urge you to emphasize the need for the Colombian criminal justice system to work its will before rewarding with promotions military officers under investigation for allegations of serious human rights crimes. Thank you for your attention and consideration of these requests. We look forward to the visit by President Santos and your conversations with him about the future of U.S.-Colombian relations. Sincerely, ###
02.02.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded today’s announcement that President Obama’s FY 2017 Budget includes $1.1 billion in funding to address the opioid epidemic that is impacting so many families in Massachusetts and across the country. “Today’s announcement that President Obama’s budget will dedicate more than $1 billion to address the opioid epidemic is a critical step in this fight,” Congressman McGovern said. “In the past year, I have worked tirelessly to make sure the voices of Massachusetts families are heard in Washington, co-sponsoring three different bills and joining my House Colleagues to call on Administration officials to ensure all of our communities are receiving the federal funds needed to address this crisis. “With the proposed funding announced today by President Obama, it is clear that our voices are being heard and Massachusetts can count on the White House to be a strong national partner in this fight,” McGovern added. “We must do all we can to ensure that treatment is available to those who seek it and by prioritizing treatment and prevention, this proposal takes the smart and comprehensive approach we need to help all of the families and communities touched by the opioid epidemic. This is a national priority and I look forward to working with both parties in Congress to securing the funding and resources we need to win this fight in Massachusetts.” President Obama’s proposal includes $1 billion in new mandatory funding over two years to expand access to treatment for prescription drug abuse and heroin use. This funding will boost efforts to help individuals with an opioid use disorder seek treatment, successfully complete treatment, and sustain recovery. This funding includes: $920 million to support cooperative agreements with States to expand access to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders. States will receive funds based on the severity of the epidemic and on the strength of their strategy to respond to it. States can use these funds to expand treatment capacity and make services more affordable. $50 million in National Health Service Corps funding to expand access to substance use treatment providers. This funding will help support approximately 700 providers able to provide substance use disorder treatment services, including medication-assisted treatment, in areas across the country most in need of behavioral health providers. $30 million to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment programs employing medication-assisted treatment under real-world conditions and help identify opportunities to improve treatment for patients with opioid use disorders. This investment, combined with other efforts underway to reduce barriers to treatment for substance use disorders, will help ensure that every American who wants treatment can access it and get the help they need. Second, the President’s Budget includes approximately $500 million -- an increase of more than $90 million -- to continue and build on current efforts across the Departments of Justice (DOJ) and Health and Human Services (HHS) to expand state-level prescription drug overdose prevention strategies, increase the availability of medication-assisted treatment programs, improve access to the overdose-reversal drug naloxone, and support targeted enforcement activities. A portion of this funding is directed specifically to rural areas, where rates of overdose and opioid use are particularly high. To help further expand access to treatment, the Budget includes an HHS pilot project for nurse practitioners and physician assistants to prescribe buprenorphine for opioid use disorder treatment, where allowed by state law. Click here to read more about today’s announcement. ###
02.01.2016	Today the U.S. Department of State announced that five people have been added to the list of those sanctioned under the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act. Four of the individuals in question are linked to the Magnitsky case, while the fifth was sanctioned for the torture and death of a Chechen human rights activist. Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat, Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission praised the decision by the State Department. As the author of the original Magnitsky sanctions bill, Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in this effort and welcomed today’s action as an important step for human rights: “I am very pleased that the U.S. government continues to investigate and sanction those responsible for the egregious imprisonment, torture and death of Sergei Magnitsky, and now, for his illegal posthumous prosecution. I also welcome the news that sanctions are being put in place against those responsible for other cases of grievous human rights violations in Russia, as Congress intended.” “The message that we wanted to send with the passage of the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act is that the United States supports those who defend human rights and the rule of law in Russia. The decision today is one more step towards ensuring there will be at least some degree of accountability for Russian human rights violators. “Even as I welcome this news, I recognize that there are many more individuals in Russia who deserve to be sanctioned for their roles in human rights abuses and corruption. I will continue to closely monitor the implementation of the Magnitsky law, and I encourage the Administration to press ahead with additional investigations. The U.S. relationship with Russia is important, but it requires a solid base -- it cannot and should not be built on a shaky foundation of corruption and condoning human rights violations.” Sergei Magnitsky was a lawyer hired by William Browder, the founder of Hermitage Capital Management, to investigate after the company was raided and transferred to Russian state control. Mr. Magnitsky helped file a number of criminal complaints and testified against officials involved in the raids, until he was arrested himself in retaliation. He was held in custody for 358 days, tortured, denied medical care and eventually beaten to death in 2009. After his death, a Russian court convicted Magnitsky of tax evasion. The trial was widely condemned internationally for setting a dangerous and chilling precedent. Congressman McGovern helped lead the passage of the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act in 2012, securing a bipartisan vote of 363-45 (PL 112-208). The law imposes visa bans and blocks the U.S. assets of certain Russian officials involved in Magnitsky’s death, and of other gross violators of human rights and perpetrators of major corruption in Russia. The list of these individuals now comprises 39 names. Persons on this list are ineligible for visas and to be admitted to the United States. These individuals have also been added to the Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (“SDN List”). As a result, all assets of these individuals that are subject to U.S. jurisdiction or in the control of U.S. persons are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with them. The names may be found at the following link: www.treasury.gov/resource-center/sanctions/OFAC-Enforcement/Pages/20160201.aspx ###
01.14.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald, UMass Medical School Chancellor Michael F. Collins, MD, and other regional and local leaders today for the ribbon cutting on the new VA specialty care clinic in Worcester. Click here to view photos online. “Today I was proud to join Secretary McDonald and Chancellor Collins for the ribbon cutting at the new VA specialty care clinic in Worcester,” Congressman McGovern said. “Strengthening and expanding access to health care for our veterans is one of the most important ways we can honor their service. “For our Worcester area veterans, this new facility will help to increase access to essential care, including podiatry, optometry, and audiology,” McGovern added. “Giving our veterans a local option for this care will ensure they no longer need to travel long distances to other VA facilities in New England. Every step of the way, I have been proud to work side by side with UMass and the VA to move this partnership forward and today we are seeing the results of this important work. The opening of this clinic is a big victory for our veterans and I will continue to work hard to ensure that they can access the care they need and deserve.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in the effort to broaden and enhance access to health care for veterans in the greater Worcester area and across his district. As a strong supporter of continued collaboration between the UMass Medical School and the VA Central Western Massachusetts Healthcare System, Congressman McGovern was pleased to welcome VA Chief of Staff Rob Nabors in December for a briefing and tour of the UMass campus. In early 2016, VA CWM HCS will begin providing specialty care within the Biotech 4 building at 377 Plantation Street which is located on the UMMS campus. The annex will provide high demand specialty services including Podiatry, Optometry and Audiology. Audiology is a new service for Worcester area Veterans, allowing them the opportunity to receive this much-needed service locally instead of traveling long distances to other VA facilities in New England. Joining Congressman McGovern and Secretary McDonald were Chancellor Michael F. Collins, MD of the University of Massachusetts Medical School (UMMS), VA New England Director Dr. Michael Mayo-Smith and John P. Collins, Director VA Central Western Massachusetts Healthcare System (VA CWM HCS) who pledge to continue to develop the relationship between the two organizations as they work together to expand services to Veterans in the Worcester County area. Providing expanded services like these near the UMMS campus would lead to a notable reduction in travel time for many veterans, an improvement in the coordination of care and expanded access to specialty care services and clinical trials. MORE PHOTOS ###
01.12.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement on President Obama’s final State of the Union address tonight: “In President Obama’s final State of the Union address tonight, he reminded us of how far our country has come in the last seven years and how important it is for us to build on that progress. One of the most powerful parts of tonight’s speech was the president’s call for us to reject the politics of fear and hate that divide us. America is strongest when we stand together. “Both at home and abroad, our country has taken historic steps forward during President Obama’s tenure. First and foremost, America recovered from the worst economic crisis in generations, creating more than 14 million new jobs and cutting the unemployment rate in half. And as we expanded healthcare access to nearly 18 million previously uninsured Americans, brought marriage equality to all 50 states, dramatically increased wind and solar power, and secured an historic international climate agreement, it is clear that our country is much stronger than it was seven years ago. “Even so, there is still much work to do and the only way that we can help more American families get ahead is by working together in a bipartisan way. As we begin 2016, I am hopeful that we can expand economic opportunity, take action to reduce gun violence, do more to help end hunger, and take further steps to address climate change. America must also continue to lead on the world stage and Congress must do its part by continuing to support diplomacy and finally vote on an AUMF that would define and then authorize any further military action against ISIS. “Only when we bridge the partisanship that so often divides can we make the progress we know America is capable of. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in embracing that bipartisan spirit as we begin the New Year.” ###
01.12.2016	On the House floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led debate for House Democrats on the consideration of H.R. 3662, The Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act; H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act; and S.J. Res. 22. Congressman McGovern called out House Republicans for pushing politically motivated legislation aimed at undermining the Iran Deal, and two bills aimed at limiting critical environmental protections. On H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act “House Republicans are…playing dangerous political games with our national security by bringing legislation like this to the floor, legislation that would undermine and perhaps even kill the nuclear deal with Iran is not the answer. “Luckily for the American people, this bill is going nowhere. Even if it were actually passed by both chambers of Congress and made its way to the President’s desk, it would be vetoed. And I strongly doubt that Congress would be able to overturn a presidential veto in support of such a clearly partisan bill. “Last week, Congress voted for the 62nd time to repeal the Affordable Care Act and soon afterward, that bill was vetoed by the president. That’s 62 times that Republicans wasted the American people’s time and taxpayer dollars – trying to take healthcare away from millions of families – all to make a political point. “Congress already voted on the Iran Deal. My colleagues who opposed the deal tried to kill it and failed. It is now official policy. Are House Republicans going to take us down the same path they did with the Affordable Care Act? Are we also going to vote on this bill 62 times – a bill we know the president will veto – just so House Republicans can make a political point? “Let’s stop wasting the American people’s time on such bills. Let’s put politics aside and actually work together to responsibly monitor implementation of the Iran Deal and find ways to strengthen U.S. leverage in other areas of concern on Iran. I urge my colleagues to reject H.R. 3662 and to reject this Rule. On H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act; and S.J. Res. 22 “Today the House is also taking up two Republican bills that would have devastating effects on the environment and our nation’s public health. The first piece of legislation, S.J. Res 22, is the Republican Majority’s 5th attempt to get rid of the Clean Water Rule. Here we are, having the same discussion, once again wasting the American taxpayers’ time and money. “The Clean Water Rule was created in response to the Supreme Court declaring that the Clean Water Act needed to be narrowed and more clearly defined. So the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers did just that, they narrowed the scope and provided for much-needed clarification. “The final bill before us, H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act, is a bill that is going nowhere and is the same bill that Republicans brought up last year with the only difference being that they changed the name. “The sole purpose of this Republican bill is to reverse the rule that the Department of Interior released last year that regulates the destructive practice of mountaintop removal mining. It has long been known that mountaintop removal mining heavily pollutes drinking water, destroys wildlife habitats and puts local communities at greater risk of contracting life-threatening diseases. “Keeping the American people healthy and safe should always be our first priority in Congress. Yet this bill is more focused on making it easier for big energy companies to continue the destructive and dangerous practice of mountaintop removal and gives no thought whatsoever to the risks it poses to the American families nearby. “We’re only two weeks into the New Year and instead of House Republicans starting the year by working in a bipartisan way to bring serious legislation to the floor, we are once again debating political messaging bills that fail to address the most pressing issues we face in a constructive way. The American people deserve better than this.” The Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor: As Prepared For Delivery “I rise in strong opposition to this rule and the underlying legislation. This Rule provides for consideration of three pieces of legislation and two of these bills are under a completely closed process. In fact, these are the 49th and 50th closed Rules this Congress. Last year was the most closed session of Congress in history. The greatest deliberative body in the world doesn’t deliberate much anymore. We don’t pass bills, we pass sound bites. This place has become an echo chamber for the Republicans’ campaign committee instead of a place where we’re doing the people’s business. “When Speaker Ryan took the gavel, he promised openness and a return to serious legislating. Yet, here we are with two more bills that will be debated under a completely closed process this week. “Let me say a few words about H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. My Republican friends would have us believe that this bill is a serious effort to increase Congressional oversight of sanctions relief under the terms of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, commonly known as the ‘Iran Deal.’ I wish that were true. Such a bill could bring together a substantial number of Members from both parties. I would be even more confident about such a bill if it were crafted with input from the Administration about how Congress could be most helpful and effective in monitoring the Iran nuclear deal. “Regrettably, what is coming before the House is another ultra-partisan bill that would shut down the ability of the United States to carry out its own obligations under the Iran Deal. Rather than the world closely monitoring Iran’s compliance, this bill would make the United States a target of condemnation for failing to fulfill its commitments. In fact, it would be the U.S. that is the nation in non-compliance with the Iran nuclear deal. “Many of my colleagues who are critics of the Iran nuclear deal have already signaled that they cannot support this bill. House Republicans made no attempt whatsoever to make this a bipartisan bill. They made no attempt to draft a bill that might actually be signed by the president and worth the American taxpayers’ time. This is political theater at its worst, plain and simple. “This latest House Republican bill is even more dangerous because it plays politics with our national security. No one here wants to see Iran freed from its commitment not to develop a nuclear weapon, but that’s exactly what this bill would do if it ever became law. It would make sure that the United States could not fulfill its part of the bargain – thus killing the nuclear agreement – and Iran would once again be free to pursue building nuclear weapons. That is insane. How can my Republican friends possibly think this is a good idea? “I believe that there are Members of Congress, in both parties, who want to work together with the Administration in a bipartisan manner to build on the progress they have made to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I do believe there are Democrats and Republicans in Congress who genuinely want to strengthen the ability of the U.S. and the international community to respond effectively to Iran’s recent testing of ballistic missiles, hold Iran accountable for their support of militant and terrorist organizations in the Middle East, and secure the freedom of Americans currently imprisoned in Iran. I also believe that achieving these goals may not require legislation, but strong bipartisan actions that increase U.S. leverage with our international partners and with Iran. “But playing dangerous political games with our national security by bringing legislation like this to the floor, legislation that would undermine and perhaps even kill the nuclear deal with Iran is not the answer. “Luckily for the American people, this bill is going nowhere. Even if it were actually passed by both chambers of Congress and made its way to the President’s desk, it would be vetoed. And I strongly doubt that Congress would be able to overturn a presidential veto in support of such a clearly partisan bill. “Last week, Congress voted for the 62nd time to repeal the Affordable Care Act and soon afterward, that bill was vetoed by the president. That’s 62 times that Republicans wasted the American people’s time and taxpayer dollars – trying to take healthcare away from millions of families – all to make a political point. “Congress already voted on the Iran Deal. My colleagues who opposed the deal tried to kill it and failed. It is now official policy. Are House Republicans going to take us down the same path they did with the Affordable Care Act? Are we also going to vote on this bill 62 times – a bill we know the president will veto – just so House Republicans can make a political point? “Let’s stop wasting the American people’s time on such bills. Let’s put politics aside and actually work together to responsibly monitor implementation of the Iran Deal and find ways to strengthen U.S. leverage in other areas of concern on Iran. I urge my colleagues to reject H.R. 3662 and to reject this Rule. “Today the House is also taking up two Republican bills that would have devastating effects on the environment and our nation’s public health. The first piece of legislation, S.J. Res 22, is the Republican Majority’s 5th attempt to get rid of the Clean Water Rule. Here we are, having the same discussion, once again wasting the American taxpayers’ time and money. “The Clean Water Rule was created in response to the Supreme Court declaring that the Clean Water Act needed to be narrowed and more clearly defined. So the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers did just that, they narrowed the scope and provided for much-needed clarification. “With the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers doing exactly what they were supposed to do, you would think that would be the end of it. The EPA’s ability to protect our water from pollution has been narrowed and the industry received the clarification that they wanted. Unfortunately, my Republican friends are pushing new legislation to further weaken vital environmental protections. “The final bill before us, H.R. 1644, the STREAM Act, is a bill that is going nowhere and is the same bill that Republicans brought up last year with the only difference being that they changed the name. “The sole purpose of this Republican bill is to reverse the rule that the Department of Interior released last year that regulates the destructive practice of mountaintop removal mining. It has long been known that mountaintop removal mining heavily pollutes drinking water, destroys wildlife habitats and puts local communities at greater risk of contracting life-threatening diseases. “Keeping the American people healthy and safe should always be our first priority in Congress. Yet this bill is more focused on making it easier for big energy companies to continue the destructive and dangerous practice of mountaintop removal and gives no thought whatsoever to the risks it poses to the American families nearby. “Before the recent rule released by the Department of Interior in July 2015, parts of the regulations for mountaintop mining were more than 30 years old. Updates were clearly long overdue and the fact that House Republicans are now actively working against the safeguards established by the rule is astounding. Are Republicans so beholden to big coal companies that they would put the health and safety of our country’s families at risk? This bill clearly suggests that the answer is yes. “We’re only two weeks into the New Year and instead of House Republicans starting the year by working in a bipartisan way to bring serious legislation to the floor, we are once again debating political messaging bills that fail to address the most pressing issues we face in a constructive way. The American people deserve better than this.” ###
01.12.2016	At today’s House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee hearing, Ranking Member Jim McGovern (D-MA), a leading champion of policies to fight hunger, called out Speaker Paul Ryan for his dangerous plan to shift the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to a block grant system. Today’s hearing, entitled “Past, Present and Future of SNAP: Addressing Special Populations” is the 10th in a long series of hearings focused on SNAP. Speaker Ryan highlighted his plan last weekend at a GOP poverty forum he hosted in South Carolina. “This is the 10th hearing on SNAP. And some have wondered – ‘to what end?’ Well, Speaker Ryan and Republican presidential candidates gave us the answer last Saturday at their so-called forum on poverty in South Carolina. And I have to say, I’m deeply troubled. We’ve known for a long-time that Speaker Ryan supports block granting SNAP. We’ve seen it year after year in his budgets. But, if that’s where all of this is going – that’s bad news for poor people. “Proposals like Speaker Ryan’s to block grant SNAP would decimate one of the key features of the program – its ability to quickly respond to an economic downturn. That when the breadwinner in a household loses his or her job, a family can quickly access SNAP to keep food on the table while they get back on their feet. “After this last recession, there’s good data emerging showing that SNAP worked as it was supposed to and expanded to help more of the families who needed it. And now that our economy is recovering, SNAP caseloads are declining and will continue to decline. Simply put, SNAP is working. “The reality is that block granting SNAP would be catastrophic for the program. Funding would be capped and states would either have to reduce the benefit – which we know from these hearings is already inadequate – or cut people off. Either way, it would make hunger worse. And we know from what happened with TANF that states wouldn’t have to use their SNAP block grant funding to actually feed people. States could use that money for just about whatever they chose. “We shouldn’t change the entitlement structure of SNAP. Block granting SNAP is a bad idea. Period. It would make hunger worse in this country and I urge my colleagues to think twice about going down the dangerous road of block grants.” The Full Text of Today’s Opening Statement is Below: As Prepared For Delivery “Thank you to Chairwoman Walorski for holding today’s hearing and thank you to the witnesses for being here with us. I’ve worked with many of your organizations before and I look forward to your testimony. “This is the 10th hearing on SNAP. And some have wondered – “to what end”? Well, Speaker Ryan and Republican presidential candidates gave us the answer last Saturday at their so-called forum on poverty in South Carolina. And I have to say, I’m deeply troubled. We’ve known for a long-time that Speaker Ryan supports block granting SNAP. We’ve seen it year after year in his budgets. But, if that’s where all of this is going – that’s bad news for poor people. “Proposals like Speaker Ryan’s to block grant SNAP would decimate one of the key features of the program – its ability to quickly respond to an economic downturn. That when the breadwinner in a household loses his or her job, a family can quickly access SNAP to keep food on the table while they get back on their feet. “After this last recession, there’s good data emerging showing that SNAP worked as it was supposed to and expanded to help more of the families who needed it. And now that our economy is recovering, SNAP caseloads are declining and will continue to decline. Simply put, SNAP is working. “The Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, or TANF, on the other hand, which was converted into a block grant in the nineties, barely responded at all to the recession. In fact, we’re seeing states shift TANF funds away from core anti-poverty purposes and instead using these funds to plug holes in other areas of their state budgets, leaving vulnerable families out of luck. “The reality is that block granting SNAP would be catastrophic for the program. Funding would be capped and states would either have to reduce the benefit – which we know from these hearings is already inadequate – or cut people off. Either way, it would make hunger worse. And we know from what happened with TANF that states wouldn’t have to use their SNAP block grant funding to actually feed people. States could use that money for just about whatever they chose. “We shouldn’t change the entitlement structure of SNAP. Block granting SNAP is a bad idea. Period. It would make hunger worse in this country and I urge my colleagues to think twice about going down the dangerous road of block grants. “Now, in terms of today’s hearing, I see that the title is “Past, Present, and Future of SNAP: Addressing Special Populations.” Today’s witnesses are among the most distinguished experts on senior and veteran hunger. But I think we are only scratching the surface on special populations receiving SNAP. We should also be talking about the disabled, Native Americans, ex-offenders and ABAWDs – Able Bodied Adults Without Dependents. These are all groups that have unique and often complicated circumstances and we should be focused on making sure they have access to adequate food benefits. I hope these populations will be the focus of future hearings.” ###
01.11.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) announced today that he will host Asima Silva, a Muslim community leader from Central Massachusetts, as his guest for tomorrow night’s State of the Union address by President Obama. Click here for a photo of Silva. “As both parties come together tomorrow night for the State of the Union, I am pleased to have Asima Silva, an inspiring leader from Worcester’s Muslim community, joining me,” Congressman McGovern said. “In recent weeks, we have heard some truly dangerous and hateful rhetoric from political leaders who want to divide us. By helping to bring our community together in the past month, Asima has shown that we are strongest when we are united against such hate. This is the kind of leadership our community needs, now more than ever, and I’m so proud that she will be joining me for the State of the Union. A graduate of Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Silva recently co-founded EnjoinGood.org to strengthen communication between the local Muslim community and other area religious institutions. In December 2015, Silva joined other local Muslim leaders to organize a Worcester Interfaith Vigil to unite faith communities in condemning recent terrorist attacks and praying for the victims and families. Silva also helped organize last weekend’s “Meet a Muslim Day” at the Worcester Islamic Center to continue to strengthen interfaith dialogue and help dispel myths about Muslim Americans. The event was a big success with as many as 2,500 attending. “I am incredibly honored to join Congressman McGovern to hear President Obama deliver the State of the Union address tomorrow night,” Silva said. “I have seen the Congressman working with his constituents over the years and I am very humbled by this opportunity. Civic engagement is so important to me and I am grateful for the opportunities I have had to help strengthen communication between our Muslim community and families of all faiths throughout Worcester.” Silva lives with her husband and children in Holden, Massachusetts, and in addition to working for IBM as a software engineer, she was elected last year as a member of the School Committee for the Wachussett Regional School District. Combining her passions and accountability as a member of the school committee, she is championing diversity training, advocating anti-bullying policies, and promoting fiscal responsibility within the district. ###
01.08.2016	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement on the passing of former Worcester County Sheriff, John “Mike” Flynn. “Lisa and I are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Sheriff John “Mike” Flynn. He was a larger than life personality – with an even bigger heart. His devotion to public service and the common good is an example to us all. We loved him a lot and our prayers are with his family at this difficult time.” ###
01.08.2016	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 292,000 jobs in December: “Today’s strong jobs report is a clear sign that the economy is moving in the right direction. In December, our economy added 292,000 jobs. In 2015 overall, America created 2.65 million jobs, making last year our second-best year of job gains since 1999. With a record 70 straight months of job growth, I am pleased to see more Americans, in Massachusetts and across the country, getting back to work. “Even as the economy continues to recover, we still have more work to do. While wages have risen faster over the past year than at any time since the recovery, millions of Americans are still waiting for a raise. In the richest country on Earth, no one who works full-time should have to raise their family in poverty. “Massachusetts is starting 2016 on a strong note by joining 13 other states to raise their minimum wage. But to make sure every hardworking American can earn a fair wage, Congress needs to step up to raise the federal minimum wage. When working families get a raise, they pump it right back into their local economies and this helps to support local businesses and spur even more job creation. Raising the minimum wage is one of the smartest things we can do to help more American families get ahead and if Republicans are serious about reducing poverty, they will make this a priority in 2016.” ###
01.07.2016	Caption: From Left to Right: Haymarket Café co-founders David and Peter Simpson with Rep. McGovern On the House floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) applauded the recent decision of Haymarket Café, a Northampton, Massachusetts restaurant, to move to a $15 per hour minimum wage for its workers. Congressman McGovern praised the decision as the right thing to do for workers, the smart thing to do for its business, and a positive step for the Northampton economy and community. Click here to watch the video of today’s speech here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech: “For all the economic vibrancy associated with restaurant culture -- and though restaurants employ almost 1 in 10 private sector workers -- restaurant workers are among the worst-paid, worst-treated within the economy as a whole. “There are forward-thinking restaurant owners who are choosing the high road. Restaurants where conscious efforts are made to break down gender and ethnic divisions and that choose to pay a living wage with good benefits. And if you ask them, the owners of these establishments will tell you that they choose this path because it’s not only the right thing to do, it’s also the smart thing to do financially. They choose this path because it’s a solid business model that improves the chances of success in a highly competitive industry. “I am proud to represent one of those restaurants in my district. The Haymarket Café, in Northampton, Massachusetts, has led the way for almost a quarter century in treating its employees with respect and paying them a living wage. “I attended an event a couple of weeks ago at the Haymarket Café where the owner, Peter Simpson, announced that his restaurant was moving to a $15 per hour minimum wage and would be eliminating tips. “As a result of Peter’s bold decision, the Haymarket Café has been overwhelmed by an outpouring of support. Staff and customers are equally enthusiastic, and business has jumped. This commitment to wage equity has shown once again to be a sound business strategy and that a business based on such principles can provide a decent living for its staff and contribute to the economic health of the community. “The Haymarket Café is living proof, especially in an industry with such a dismal track record on wages, that paying a living wage is good for business. That a commitment to wage equity makes financial sense. The restaurant industry can and must do better. And I’m proud to say the Haymarket Café is leading the way.” Full Text of Floor Speech Below: “Today, I’m honored to share the story of the Haymarket Café, started by brothers Peter and David Simpson, in Northampton, Massachusetts. “One of the surest signs of a vibrant local economy is a lively restaurant scene. You know a town or region is humming economically when you have a wide variety of restaurants to choose from. It’s a sign that people have enough money left over after paying the bills to spend on treating themselves and their families. It’s a strong indication that people feel secure in the direction of the economy. “But for millions of low-wage workers across the country, the story is more complicated than that, and the picture is not at all pretty. For all the economic vibrancy associated with restaurant culture -- and though restaurants employ almost 1 in 10 private sector workers -- restaurant workers are among the worst-paid, worst-treated within the economy as a whole. “While non-restaurant private sector workers make a median hourly wage of $18, restaurant workers earn a median hourly wage of $10, including tips. The results are predictable: more than 16 percent of restaurant workers live below the poverty line. “And this picture is made even worse by how it is skewed along race and gender lines. The highest paid positions in restaurants tend to be held by men and people who are white, while the lowest paid positions are typically held by women and people of color. And at the bottom of the ladder are undocumented workers, who comprise over 15 percent of the restaurant workforce -- more than twice the rate for non-restaurant sectors. “The good news is that it doesn’t have to be this way. There are forward-thinking restaurant owners who are choosing the high road. Restaurants where conscious efforts are made to break down gender and ethnic divisions and that choose to pay a living wage with good benefits. And if you ask them, the owners of these establishments will tell you that they choose this path because it’s not only the right thing to do, it’s also the smart thing to do financially. They choose this path because it’s a solid business model that improves the chances of success in a highly competitive industry. “I am proud to represent one of those restaurants in my district. The Haymarket Café, in Northampton, Massachusetts, has led the way for almost a quarter century in treating its employees with respect and paying them a living wage. “I attended an event a couple of weeks ago at the Haymarket Café where the owner, Peter Simpson, announced that his restaurant was moving to a $15 per hour minimum wage and would be eliminating tips. “Now, I’ve known Peter for a long time, and I wasn’t surprised that he would take such a step. Peter opened the Haymarket with his brother, David, almost 25 years ago, and from the beginning they were committed to paying a fair wage and creating a positive work environment for their employees. “But in talking to Peter, I realized that his decision -- while it reflected his idealism -- was rooted in hard-nosed business sense. You don’t survive and thrive for a quarter century in the highly-competitive restaurant industry, especially in a small, tight-knit community like Northampton, if your business model isn’t air tight. Every decision you make has to make sense financially in order to succeed and stay competitive. “So the decision to go to a $15 per hour minimum wage and eliminate tips was not something Peter took lightly. He did his homework. He looked at other restaurants in other cities that’d made a similar move. He talked to all his employees. He worked closely with the Pioneer Valley Workers Center, which is leading the charge to better the lives of low-wage immigrant workers in Western Massachusetts. “Eliminating tips allowed Peter to make the wages between better-paid waiters and less well-paid kitchen staff more equitable. It allowed his wait staff to earn a wage they could count on, rather than having to depend on the tipping whims of customers. It also gave him increased staffing flexibility—he could train all his staff to do all jobs so he could more easily shift people around when necessary. In committing to a $15 per hour minimum wage, Peter also increased staff loyalty, while decreasing turnover and training costs. “As a result of Peter’s bold decision, the Haymarket Café has been overwhelmed by an outpouring of support. Staff and customers are equally enthusiastic, and business has jumped. This commitment to wage equity has shown once again to be a sound business strategy and that a business based on such principles can provide a decent living for its staff and contribute to the economic health of the community. “The Haymarket Café is living proof, especially in an industry with such a dismal track record on wages, that paying a living wage is good for business. That a commitment to wage equity makes financial sense. The restaurant industry can and must do better. And I’m proud to say the Haymarket Café is leading the way.” ###
01.06.2016	On the House floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led debate for House Democrats on H.R. 3762, the latest attempt by House Republicans to defund Planned Parenthood and repeal the Affordable Care Act. Congressman McGovern called out Republicans for starting 2016 with a bill that is clearly designed to appeal to their right-wing base and would actually result in 22 million Americans losing their health coverage. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech: “This is yet another blatant political move by Republicans to appease their right-wing base with no thought for the millions of Americans this bill would hurt. Republican leaders have said it themselves. Senate Republican Whip John Cornyn called this ‘a political exercise,’ saying ‘we all recognize the president isn’t likely to sign this bill so it’s not going to become a law.’ Then why on Earth are we wasting the American people’s time with this terrible bill? “We’ve heard that this month, Speaker Ryan ‘will push to turn the [House] into a platform for ambitious Republican policy ideas.’ The 62nd vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act? The 11th vote to attack women’s health? Really? That’s the platform for ambitious Republican policy ideas? I think the American people should sue Republicans for malpractice. “When Speaker Ryan took the gavel last fall, there was so much talk about a new chapter and fresh ideas. Instead, we’re starting 2016 with more of the stale, and politically-motivated bills we’ve become accustomed to in this Republican-controlled Congress. “I would remind my Republican friends that in 2011, you passed a bill that actually tasked you to come up with an alternative to the Affordable Care Act. You came up with nothing. Nothing. Just last year, you passed another bill to come up with an alternative and once again you came up with nothing. So now that we’re here again with a bill that repeals the Affordable Care Act and tasks Republicans to come up with an alternative. I’m curious. Where is your alternative? Maybe it’s in your notes. Is it hidden in some secret room in the Capitol? Maybe Donald Trump has it? Perhaps we should alert the Capitol Police or better yet, maybe we should call the FBI to help locate the Republican plan on healthcare. “Not only have House Republicans done nothing to expand healthcare for the American people, they have actually consistently tried to undermine health access for millions of Americans. “We’re starting the New Year not by working in a bipartisan way to do the people’s business. Unfortunately, we’re starting the New Year debating the same old, same old; bills that put politics ahead of people. And that’s truly sad.” Full Text of Floor Speech Below: “As we begin the second session of the 114th Congress, there is a long list of important issues we could be talking about today. We could be talking about ways to support job creation, grow the economy, improve gun safety, strengthen national security, pass an immigration reform bill, and many other important priorities. “Instead, we are talking about H.R. 3762, the latest attempt by House Republicans to defund Planned Parenthood and repeal the Affordable Care Act. As our economy continues to recover, we should be focused on expanding opportunity and helping more Americans get ahead. Instead, we are starting the New Year by debating a bill, that if it ever became law, would put the healthcare of 22 million Americans in jeopardy and further restrict women’s access to vital healthcare services. “This is yet another blatant political move by Republicans to appease their right-wing base with no thought for the millions of Americans this bill would hurt. Republican leaders have said it themselves. Senate Republican Whip John Cornyn called this ‘a political exercise,’ saying ‘we all recognize the president isn’t likely to sign this bill so it’s not going to become a law.’ Then why on Earth are we wasting the American people’s time with this terrible bill? “We’ve heard that this month, Speaker Ryan ‘will push to turn the [House] into a platform for ambitious Republican policy ideas.’ The 62nd vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act? The 11th vote to attack women’s health? Really? That’s the platform for ambitious Republican policy ideas? I think the American people should sue Republicans for malpractice. “When Speaker Ryan took the gavel last fall, there was so much talk about a new chapter and fresh ideas. Instead, we’re starting 2016 with more of the stale, and politically-motivated bills we’ve become accustomed to in this Republican-controlled Congress. “We are constantly being told by Republicans that they have better ideas and a better approach to healthcare. Really? Where is it? “I would remind my Republican friends that in 2011, you passed a bill that actually tasked you to come up with an alternative to the Affordable Care Act. You came up with nothing. Nothing. Just last year, you passed another bill to come up with an alternative and once again you came up with nothing. So now that we’re here again with a bill that repeals the Affordable Care Act and tasks Republicans to come up with an alternative. I’m curious. Where is your alternative? Maybe it’s in your notes. Is it hidden in some secret room in the Capitol? Maybe Donald Trump have it? Perhaps we should alert the Capitol Police or better yet, maybe we should call the FBI to help locate the Republican plan on healthcare. “I remind my friends, you’re in charge. You run this place. You can bring whatever you want to this House Floor. Maybe you should bring a bloodhound to the House Floor to try find your healthcare alternative plan. But governing is something that my friends on the Republican side are not very good at. They’re very good about saying no to everything, but they can’t say yes to anything. The Republican plan on healthcare is essentially a sound bite. Their prescription is: Take two tax breaks and call me in the morning. “Not only have House Republicans done nothing to expand healthcare for the American people, they have actually consistently tried to undermine health access for millions of Americans. Taking healthcare away from people in this country. And if Republicans had it their way and actually repealed the Affordable Care Act, millions of young people under the age of 26 would be thrown off of their parents’ health plans, being a woman would once again be a pre-existing condition, and much more of the progress made by the ACA would be rolled back. “Contrary to what we often hear from Republicans, the Affordable Care Act is not killing the economy. I know facts get in the way of their arguments, but the fact is that America has seen a record 69 straight months of job growth and all signs point to this historic growth continuing. In September 2012 when the unemployment rate was 8.1 percent, the Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, claimed that the unemployment rate would stay at about 8 percent if President Obama were re-elected. Well, President Obama was re-elected and Mitt Romney was wrong. What actually happened? The unemployment rate has steadily dropped each year and is now at a 7-year low of 5 percent with employers adding about 210,000 jobs a month through last November as more Americans get back to work. “One of the frequent Republican claims we’ve heard is that businesses would shift to part-time workers to avoid the Affordable Care Act’s requirement to provide health coverage to full-time employees. A new study released this week shows that the ACA resulted in little change in the number of hours worked – including the first six months of 2015, when the employer mandate first took effect for larger companies. “As POLITICO noted, this study “pokes a major hole in a beloved conservative talking point – that Obamacare will force employers to cut employees' hours.” The truth is that researchers found no major changes in the probability of people working fewer hours in 2013, 2014 or 2015. “We’ve also heard Republicans claim that the ACA’s expansion of Medicaid would decrease employment among low-income workers. But another study released this week showed no major changes in the way low-income workers fit into the labor market during the first 15 months of Medicaid expansion under ACA. Contrary to conservative talking points, the new coverage didn't push low-income adults to switch jobs, move from full-time to part-time work, or rush to find new jobs. “In fact, the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act has made a tremendous difference in increasing access to healthcare for America’s most vulnerable families. Since October 2013, more than 12.3 million Americans have been able to get covered thanks to the expansion of Medicaid. And as a result of Marketplace coverage and Medicaid expansion, hospital uncompensated care costs were reduced by an estimated $7.4 billion in 2014, resulting in huge savings for consumers across this country. “But that’s the difference between us – Democrats believe healthcare is a right and my Republican friends believe it is a privilege. “To make matters worse, the bill before us today would also defund Planned Parenthood – which would put millions of low-income women – and men – at risk of losing access to critical health services. The fact is that one in five women has relied on a Planned Parenthood health center for care in her lifetime and Planned Parenthood serves 2.7 million patients each year. “Additionally, Planned Parenthood clinics often serve as one of the few affordable health care options available for many women and men. Cutting off access to the critical health services Planned Parenthood provides to some of our most vulnerable citizens is simply wrong. It is unconscionable. And 63 percent of voters, including 72 percent of independents, agree. But this whole effort to defund Planned Parenthood fits the Republican pattern of targeting poor people. And quite frankly, it’s outrageous. “While our nation’s community health centers do incredible work, the Republican claim that community health centers – by themselves – could suddenly pick up all the slack if Planned Parenthood is defunded, is just not true. And my Republican friends know that. The idea that our community health centers could – overnight – suddenly step in and cover millions of new patients, is absurd. In fact, in 21 percent of the counties with a Planned Parenthood health center, Planned Parenthood is the only safety-net family planning provider. “Finally, let me also voice my strong objection to the provision in this Rule which extends for another year the unrestricted authority for four House Committees to conduct staff depositions at any time, on any subject, for any reason. Some committees have barely used this authority in the past year, and when they have, it has often been abused, with the threat of subpoena held over people’s heads. “The power to compel American citizens to provide testimony under oath should be rarely used and specifically authorized. Quite frankly, I think the American people are tired of the partisan witch hunts that we have grown accustomed to under Republican leadership in this House. “We’re starting the New Year not by working in a bipartisan way to do the people’s business. Unfortunately, we’re starting the New Year debating the same old, same old; bills that put politics ahead of people. And that is truly sad.” ###
01.04.2016	Today, the National Commission on Hunger released their final report, Freedom from Hunger: An Achievable Goal for The United States of America, Recommendations of the National Commission on Hunger to Congress and the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture. The Hunger Commission was created by the Omnibus Appropriations Bill of 2014 and Commission members were appointed equally by House and Senate leaders. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), two of the leading voices in Congress calling for strong investments in anti-hunger programs, released the following statements in response to the report. Representative McGovern (D-MA) said, “Today’s National Hunger Commission report is a powerful reminder that we have much more work to do to end hunger for American families. With strict parameters and a limited budget, writing this report was no easy task and I’m grateful to the Commission members for the report and its recommendations. This report underscores how fundamentally important and effective our federal nutrition programs are to reducing hunger, most notably the Supplemental Food Assistance Program, or SNAP. “SNAP is first and foremost a food program, not a jobs program. SNAP cannot be expected to solve the broader economic challenges or barriers faced by people ready and willing to work so they can provide for their families. We must continue to strengthen SNAP as America’s premier anti-hunger entitlement program. “Additionally, I have long called for a White House Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Hunger to develop a holistic plan to end hunger in this country once and for all. So I am pleased that the report calls for the creation of a White House Leadership Council to End Hunger – a key step to bring together a diverse group of stakeholders to do just that. Hunger is essentially a political problem. We have the food, resources, and ability to end hunger. What’s lacking is the political will. I hope this report will help spur more discussion, attention, and action to end hunger for families across the country.” Representative DeLauro (D-CT) said, “The National Hunger Commission was given a difficult task in examining the state of hunger in America and I thank the Commission for its hard work. The report confirms, as we already knew, that SNAP and other anti-hunger programs are highly effective at reducing hunger across the country. These programs are critical in meeting the nutritional needs of our families and as the report highlights, we cannot afford to cut or block grant the programs. “However, while the Commission solely focused on the 17.2 million Americans suffering the lowest level of food security, we should also bring attention to the other 30.9 million Americans suffering from marginal food security. By doing so, we can better understand all of the nation’s hunger problems and the associated human, economic and fiscal costs. We must go further in combatting hunger in America and find solutions for the full magnitude of the nation’s poverty and hunger issues.” ###
12.18.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined House Democrats and Republicans in voting 316-113 to pass the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This measure funds the government for Fiscal Year 2016. The omnibus bill was part of a bipartisan deal that included a tax extenders bill passed yesterday with a strong bipartisan vote of 318-109. “Today I joined my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to vote for the Omnibus to avert a disastrous government shutdown and to make the investments we need to help our families succeed and grow our economy. While the bill is not perfect, it is a bipartisan compromise that makes strong investments in a wide range of critical programs with increased funding for NIH, Head Start, Pell Grants, job-training, state and local law enforcement, the McGovern-Dole international school feeding program, and many others. “One of the most important victories for working families in the bipartisan deal this week was the provisions in the tax extenders bill that make permanent the improvements to the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit that were passed in 2009 as part of the Recovery Act. As a result, these improvements are expected to lift about 16 million people, including about 8 million children, out of poverty or closer to rising above the poverty line. College affordability is a big priority for me and I am glad that we also made permanent the recent improvement to the American Opportunity Tax Credit to help millions of low- and middle-income families pay for college each year. “Additionally, the Omnibus includes provisions to reauthorize the vital Land and Water Conservation Fund for three years. The LWCF is one of our country’s most successful outdoor recreation and conservation programs. Over the last 50 years, it has helped to protect national parks and forests, farms and ranches, fish and wildlife refuges, trails, and state and local parks in Massachusetts and across the country. “Following the historic international climate agreement reached in Paris last weekend, I am also pleased that this deal will extend tax incentives for investments in wind and solar energy, helping to drive significant reductions in carbon pollution and other dangerous air pollutants and provide certainty for investments in clean energy. “With any bipartisan legislation, it is essential that both parties are able come to the table to find compromise and reach a deal. While the Omnibus and tax extenders bills are not perfect, the investments they make will put us in a strong position to continue our work with states and businesses to grow the economy and help all of our families succeed. Our work is far from finished, but this is an important step forward and I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to continue this progress in the new year.” Background on Omnibus Bill The bill’s investments in priorities include the following: Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021), while phasing both credits down somewhat over time. Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs in 2017 alone. It is also estimated that the wind industry will grow to over 100,000 jobs over four years with the renewed wind tax credit. Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. Overall Education: The bill restores the $2.5 billion cut in education that the GOP had proposed and also makes critical additional investments of $1.4 billion above 2015, in such areas as Title I that serves 24 million at-risk students. Early Learning: Investing in Head Start produces results – and this bill invests nearly $400 million more than the House GOP bill and nearly $600 million more than 2015 in this vital initiative. The bill also provides $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, assisting 18 states across the country. Medical Research: Medical research at NIH has been underfunded for the last several years. This bill provides $900 million more than the House GOP bill and $2 billion more than 2015 for this life-saving research. Infrastructure: The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. The House GOP bill had slashed TIGER grants by 80 percent, killing jobs, but this bill restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million. Law Enforcement: The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, $7 million above the 2015 level and $187 million above the House GOP bill, which had eliminated the hiring grants. The bill also provides $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants, an increase over the House bill. The measure also does not include numerous GOP ideological riders that would have had damaging impacts on America’s women, consumers, workers, and children. The damaging GOP “poison pill” riders that were removed from the final bill include: GOP riders that would have limited women’s access to the full range of comprehensive health care services, including by defunding Planned Parenthood. GOP riders that would have gutted the Dodd-Frank provisions that hold big Wall Street banks accountable. GOP riders that would have undermined the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act, jeopardizing the health of our children and working families. GOP riders that would have blocked moving forward on addressing climate change and reducing damaging carbon emissions. GOP riders that would have blocked protections that allow workers to form unions. Finally, the Omnibus includes several other important provisions: Reauthorizes the key James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years; Delays the so-called “Cadillac” tax, a tax on employer-provided health plans worth over a certain threshold, for two years – from 2018 to 2020; Includes the provisions of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which addresses issues raised by the terrorist attacks in Paris with reforms to the program; and Reauthorizes the Land and Conservation Fund, which is one of our country’s most successful outdoor recreation and conservation programs and which Republicans allowed to expire on September 30. ###
12.17.2015	Today, following House passage of the PATH Act – a multiyear tax package – Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Peter King (R-NY), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Bob Dold (R-IL) welcomed a permanent increase of the commuter tax benefit exclusion for transit riders to $255 a month, finally giving transit equal treatment with parking subsidies in the tax code. This provision incorporates legislation introduced by Congressman McGovern and the other lawmakers, H.R. 990, the Commuter Parity Act. Representative McGovern (D-MA) said, “For millions of Americans across the country who use mass transit every day to commute to work, this is a big victory. Making this transit tax benefit permanent will bring critical relief to commuters by saving them money and it also offers employers another attractive benefit to offer their workers. And by making mass transit more affordable, we are giving Americans more commuting options and taking important steps to support sustainable transportation, mitigate congestion and reduce wear and tear on our roads and bridges. This has been a big priority for my constituents in Central and Western Massachusetts who take the train everyday into downtown Boston and I am proud to join Republicans and Democrats to support this important measure.” Representative King (R-NY) said, “This provision is a common-sense solution to ensuring that public transportation is a cost-effective choice. Commuters will receive the same level of tax relief regardless of whether they drive or use public transportation but it will provide an incentive to use mass transportation, which will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, ease traffic congestion and the costs associated with road repair.” Representative Blumenauer (D-OR) said, “As we face worsening congestion on our roads and the growing threat of climate change, we should not be incentivizing driving to work over modes of transportation. Restoring parity for the transit tax benefit saves Americans in all communities time and money by easing congestion and road wear and tear, and makes our transportation network more sustainable. This important fix brings relief to commuters who saw their annual costs of commuting rise by up to nearly $1,400 when the transit benefit was cut last year. As we invest in a transportation system to meet the demands and travel trends of tomorrow, providing equal transit and parking tax benefits is critical to give commuters choices about how when and how they get to work. This provision is a huge step forward for sustainability and transportation efficiency.” Representative Dold (R-IL) said, “Restoring the transit tax benefit is a bipartisan win-win. It’s good for the environment, good for workers and good for businesses. This important fix will provide relief to commuters while reducing congestion on our roads and making our transportation infrastructure more sustainable. I am proud to have helped shepherd this bill over the finish line.” ###
12.16.2015	With this week marking one year since President Obama announced a new U.S. policy toward Cuba, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined Republicans and Democrats today in a letter to Speaker Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to announce a new bipartisan coalition to build on that historic progress and advance U.S.-Cuba relations. McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress in the push for normalizing U.S.-Cuba relations, joining Secretary Kerry at the U.S. Embassy opening in Havana last summer, and this bipartisan Cuba Working Group of 12 House lawmakers will address a wide range of issues with growing support from both parties in Congress. “Americans are ready for a 21st century approach to Cuba and one year after President Obama’s historic announcement of the new U.S.-Cuba policy, I am proud to join my colleagues in this bipartisan push to build on that progress,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Standing with Secretary Kerry at the opening of the U.S. Embassy in Havana last summer, I was inspired to see Americans and Cubans of all backgrounds united and ready to end the outdated and ineffective Cold War policy that divided us for so many years. “With our two nations working together, we can create new opportunities for American businesses, increase travel and exchange, and support efforts in Cuba to advance political and economic reforms and promote human rights,” McGovern added. “Working with Democrats and Republicans in this bipartisan group, I look forward to addressing these and many other issues as we seize this moment and continue to advance U.S.-Cuba relations.” In the letter to Speaker Paul Ryan and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi announcing the group’s formation, the steering committee members said: “Increasingly, the American people are indicating their desire for a new, more pragmatic approach to Cuba. More people are traveling from the U.S. to Cuba, more businesses are looking for opportunity on the island, and more sectors are eager for trade. The bi-partisan Cuba Working Group will promote a U.S.-Cuba policy that reflects the interests of the American people in engagement with Cuba.” The letter concludes, “Our goal is to raise the level of understanding inside of Congress for the need to build a new policy framework for U.S.-Cuban relations.” In addition to Congressman McGovern, the bipartisan Cuba Working Group steering committee members include: Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rick Crawford (R-AR), Tom Emmer (R-MN), Reid Ribble (R-WI), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Sam Farr (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Ted Poe (R-TX), Rosa Delauro (D-CT), Mark Sanford (R-SC), and Nydia Velázquez (D-NY). Members of the Cuba Working Group are supporters of one or more key pieces of legislation introduced in 2015, with Republicans as the lead sponsors. Taken together, these bills repeal economic and travel restrictions and would effectively eliminate the U.S. embargo on Cuba: The Cuba Trade Act of 2015 would allow U.S. businesses in the private sector to trade with Cuba without restrictions; The Cuba Digital and Telecommunications Advancement Act (Cuba DATA Act) would allow U.S. telecommunications and internet companies to provide services to the island; The Cuba Agriculture Exports Act would allow for U.S. investment in privately owned Cuban agriculture businesses; The Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act of 2015 would allow all U.S. citizens to travel to Cuba. Senate committees have passed significant legislation to lift the travel ban on Cuba and widen trade with bipartisan support. The House of Representatives has been more reticent to move U.S. policy forward, making this Cuba working group even more important. Increasing trade, travel and investment in Cuba will not only open new markets and create jobs in both countries, but promote human rights and better hemispheric relations. Public opinion polls over the past year have shown an increasing support to end the Cuban trade embargo and change course on U.S.-Cuba relations. The most recent Pew poll showed 73 percent of the American people, including 59 percent of Republicans favor ending the trade embargo. The bi-partisan Congressional Working Group will now take leadership to match the growing public support for a new U.S. policy towards Cuba. ###
12.15.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in Congress for human rights, joined Congressman Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and three other House lawmakers in introducing a bipartisan resolution in support of the peace negotiations between the Colombian government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). The resolution recognizes the importance of the ongoing negotiations and commends Colombian President Juan Manuel Santos for his leadership in the process. It also calls on the negotiating parties to make meaningful reparations to the victims of the conflict and urges President Barack Obama to continue to support the negotiations and develop plans to support the Colombian people in building a just and lasting peace. In addition to McGovern and Gallego, original cosponsors include Reps. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) and Henry C. “Hank” Johnson Jr., who both serve with Rep. Gallego on the House Armed Services Committee, and Reps. John Lewis (D-GA) and Sam Farr (D-CA). The full text of the resolution can be found here. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) said, “Colombia is engaged in a historic, difficult and complex negotiation to end the longest armed conflict in the hemisphere. It deserves the support of the U.S. government, the U.S. Congress and the American people. Billions of U.S. tax dollars having been invested in Colombia’s security, institutions and the protection of human rights. It is now time for us to demonstrate that same support for the peace negotiations and, if successful and an agreement reached, their implementation.” Rep. Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) said, “As the first Colombian American elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, I am committed to strengthening the ties that bind our two nations. We have a moral obligation and a vested interest in helping the Colombian people to secure a just and lasting peace. It’s heartening to see the great strides that both parties have made at the negotiating table. I remain committed to ensuring that the Colombian government can continue to count on strong support from Congress at this critical juncture in their nation’s history.” Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL) said, “Earlier this year, I had the opportunity to travel to Colombia to learn more about the peace process, and I was very impressed by the progress President Santos has made, Colombia has long been a strong ally of our country, and I believe the United States should do everything we can to support the peace process.” ###
12.10.2015	Members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today applauded the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) announcement that more than $120 million in disaster assistance has been awarded to the Commonwealth for costs associated with this past winter’s historic snowfall. “Our last winter was one of the harshest that Massachusetts has faced and this federal aid will provide much-needed relief to the cities and towns that were impacted,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Bringing these federal dollars back to Massachusetts to help families and communities recover has been a top priority. I’m proud to work side-by-side with such strong partners in our delegation to help continue recovery efforts as we prepare for this year’s winter.” “This disaster funding is a big help for Massachusetts’ cities and towns as we continue to recover from last winter’s severe storms,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “It’s important for the federal government to be a good partner for our local communities, especially during emergencies, and I’m glad the congressional delegation was able to work with FEMA and with our state and local officials to secure this critical aid. This funding will support much-needed repairs to the Commonwealth's aging infrastructure as we work to improve resiliency for the winter months.” “This disaster funding will go a long way to help pay the bills that piled up as high as last year’s historic snowfall," Senator Edward J. Markey said. "I’m pleased the entire Congressional delegation was able to help Massachusetts and our local municipalities get the federal relief and resources we need to repair, rebuild and recoup costs incurred from last year's winter disaster.” “Last year, the people of Massachusetts experienced some of the most severe weather in recent history. Record snowfall and historically cold temperatures made the winter months challenging, especially for our cities and towns. That is why this unprecedented amount of disaster assistance from FEMA is welcome news. It will help communities cover storm related costs and give them the resources to plan for the upcoming winter season. It’s an early Christmas present for the entire Commonwealth,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “This federal funding will take some of the financial burden off of our cities and towns, who struggled through an historic winter. I am pleased that FEMA recognized the need for federal aid, which will help our communities meet the financial challenges that the winter of 2015 created,” stated Congressman Michael Capuano. “The severe snowstorms last winter left many cities and towns struggling with significant costs for snow removal and infrastructure repairs. I am pleased that the Massachusetts delegation was able to work closely with Governor Baker and our local elected officials to strongly advocate for much needed federal aid. As winter approaches, this assistance will relieve some of the stress placed on budgets across the Commonwealth after the substantial storm costs accumulated earlier this year,” said Congressman Stephen F. Lynch. “After last winter’s historic snowfall, all levels of government came together to ensure Massachusetts received support from FEMA and the federal government," Congresswoman Niki Tsongas said. "This announcement is the result of that collaboration across federal, state and local government. The funding will go a long way here in the Commonwealth, especially as we look ahead to the beginning of another New England winter.” “Communities across our Commonwealth faced unprecedented costs and damage following last year’s historic winter,” said Congressman Joe Kennedy. “With this aid, our cities and towns can recoup some of the funding used to keep their streets open, governments functioning and first responders available. I applaud FEMA for assisting in our recovery and thank all of my colleagues in the delegation for working together to advocate for these critical funds.” “Last winter’s unprecedented snow storms severely damaged homes and businesses, left thousands without power, and crippled the Commonwealth’s already aging infrastructure," Congressman Seth Moulton said. "I am grateful to FEMA for providing this much-needed assistance and applaud the work of our state and local partners for their efforts to mitigate the impact of these storms." Following last winter’s storms, the delegation asked FEMA to support the Commonwealth’s disaster recovery efforts, and urged President Obama to approve Massachusetts’ disaster declaration request. ###
12.09.2015	On the House floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) expressed outrage at House Republicans’ continued refusal to allow a debate and vote on H.R. 1076, the Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act of 2015, Republican Congressman Peter King’s bipartisan bill to close the dangerous loophole that allows terrorist suspects to legally buy deadly weapons. “Only in this Republican-controlled House of Representatives would this idea of prohibiting terrorist suspects from getting weapons be considered controversial. These people we are talking about are on our no-fly list. They can’t fly on airplanes and I’m glad. And I’m glad they can’t fly with me when I go back and forth from Washington to Boston every week. I think the majority of Americans, Democrats and Republicans, are glad that terrorist suspects are not on their plane, flying around the country when they’re on these planes. “Why, then, would it somehow be a good idea to say that these people who cannot fly on our airplanes because we suspect them of links to terrorism could somehow go buy a weapon, a weapon of war that could potentially be used against our citizens? There are a lot of things we need to do. This is one of them. “I get it that there’s a particular special interest out there that is putting a lot of pressure on the leadership and some members of the other side to not be able to bring this bill to the floor, but I would say that the majority of the members of the National Rifle Association actually agree with us on this issue. And by the way, this idea that we’re putting forward here today is not a Democratic idea, it’s introduced by a Republican member of Congress, Congressman Peter King of New York. “It’s an idea that has been endorsed by a Republican president and his administration, the Bush Administration. Their Justice Department thought it was a good idea. Former New Jersey Governor Tom Kean, Co-Chair of the bipartisan 9/11 Commission, said this is a good idea. “Reasonable people, rational people think this is a good idea. Yet, in this House of Representatives, we can’t even get it on the floor for a vote. If you don’t want to vote for it, then have the courage to vote ‘no,’ allow it to come to the floor, and let your constituents know where you stand on this issue.” ###
12.08.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and 12 New England members sent a letter to U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell, urging the Administration to continue its work to address the opioid addiction and overdose epidemic in New England. Specifically, the letter calls on the Administration to convene a cross-department working group, develop guidelines on methods of pain management, provide those guidelines to physicians in a “Prescriber Pain Relief Toolkit,” and support the development of alternative pain management. “We are writing because of our shared, collective concern about the continued toll of the opioid addiction and overdose epidemic in our states,” the members stated. “Across the country, deaths from overdose rates are at crisis levels and continuing to rise. Tragically, deaths have been at a critical level for years and remain so in spite of bold steps taken at the local, state, regional, and national level. “The toll has been particularly heavy in our region of New England. We believe one key area in which additional steps can have a strong impact is increasing education about how prescribing practices impact addiction. As you know, the use and misuse of prescription pain relievers are often the initial catalyst to addiction and then overdose.” The recommendations outlined in the letter, which also garnered support from Massachusetts Representatives Richard E. Neal and Seth Moulton, reflect the ongoing work and priorities of the informal U.S. House New England Health Task Force. Read the full letter below. The Honorable Sylvia Mathews Burwell Secretary Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Ave SW Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Burwell: We are writing because of our shared, collective concern about the continued toll of the opioid addiction and overdose epidemic in our states. Across the country, deaths from overdose rates are at crisis levels and continuing to rise. Tragically, deaths have been at a critical level for years and remain so in spite of bold steps taken at the local, state, regional, and national level. The toll has been particularly heavy in our region of New England. We believe one key area in which additional steps can have a strong impact is increasing education about how prescribing practices impact addiction. As you know, the use and misuse of prescription pain relievers are often the initial catalyst to addiction and then overdose. To that end, we respectfully make the following proposals: Convene a Cross-Department Working Group We urge you to convene a Cross-Department Working Group to identify ways to restore the balance in pain management, expand prescriber education, reduce prescriptions for opioid pain killers, and examine alternative non-opioid approaches in treating patients. We would urge this group, under your leadership, to develop best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and include senior representatives of relevant federal agencies, and other federal, local, and private sector partners as necessary as a high level of cross-departmental cooperation and coordination will be required to adequately address this issue. Give Prescribers the Tools to Change Practice We believe a “Prescriber Pain Relief Toolkit” could make a major impact in helping to change prescribing practices. Such a toolkit could help practitioners modify their care practice procedures in ways that meet the needs of their patients while reducing the risks of addiction. This toolkit would assist physicians in accurately assessing pain levels, confer on method of pain management, describe minimum dosage and frequency and describe follow up protocols to determine pain tolerance & management. Support the Development of Alternative Pain Management We believe there is a great need for more tested and proven methods to effectively alleviate pain in ways that do not put patients, or those with access medications, at risk of addiction and overdose, and that investing in additional research is vital to developing alternative pain management techniques. Research should explore the full range of therapies and treatment to reduce pain, including the role of physical therapy, occupational therapy, mindfulness training, modification training, adapted use of work/living settings, counseling and more – both integrated with medication-based treatment and as alternatives to opioid based medication. Funding, promoting, and sharing such research should be a top priority for the working group referenced above. By aligning goals across departments, the research generated by this effort will have a broader impact on changing the behavior and practice of healthcare professionals. It is critically important to unite and coordinate the work, expertise, and regulatory authority of those responsible for the rise in addiction and overdose with those responsible for guiding, directing, and evaluating medical practice. We applaud you for the leadership and the proactive actions you have taken to date on this critically important issue. We do, however, believe more needs to be done and feel that adopting the proposals outlined above will have a significant, immediate, and long-term positive impact on stemming addiction and overdose. We are ready to assist you and your office in way to further these ideas and to advance all of your work on this important challenge. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Elizabeth H. Esty David N. Cicilline Ann McLane Kuster Rosa DeLauro Joe Courtney John B. Larson James A. Himes Frank C. Guinta Chellie Pingree Richard E. Neal Seth Moulton James R. Langevin ###
12.08.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), one of the leading voices in Congress calling for action to address hunger, applauded the release by the White House of a new report on hunger highlighting how SNAP improves food security and life outcomes for families, with long-term benefits for health, education, and economic well-being. At the same time, far too many families remain food insecure, and strengthening SNAP benefits would help to address this. “Today’s White House report confirms that SNAP works. It is one of the most effective federal programs in reducing hunger and food insecurity and it has a lasting positive effect on vulnerable populations, especially children. “Today’s report also confirms what we have heard repeatedly in the House Agriculture Committee this year: The majority of those on SNAP are children, elderly and the disabled. And as the economy continues to recover, more families are working, but there are still far too many who are earning so little that they qualify for SNAP. It’s deeply troubling that wages haven’t kept up with the cost of meeting basic needs.This report also shows that the current SNAP benefit is too low. It runs out before the end of the month and families are forced to cobble together enough to eat. “Ensuring that children have enough healthy food to eat early in their life through SNAP is one of the best investments we can make in future health, well-being and economic self-sufficiency. I am grateful to the White House and USDA Secretary Vilsack for their leadership on hunger, both with this report and their work to strengthen critical programs like school meals that help families in need. “As Congress finishes this year and looks to 2016, I urge all of my colleagues to read this report and think twice before cutting SNAP or turning it into a block grant program. These would be harmful policy changes that would significantly undermine the program. Instead we should be focused on strengthening SNAP. Hunger is a solvable problem and we must work together to strengthen critical anti-hunger programs like SNAP that so many American families rely on.” Click here to read the full text of the report. Key Findings of White House Hunger Report: The White House report draws on a growing body of high-quality research about food insecurity and SNAP, finding that: 1. SNAP plays an important role in reducing both poverty and food insecurity in the United States—especially among children. In 2014,at least 4.7 million people, including 2.1 million children, were lifted out of poverty due to SNAP benefits. Overall, research indicates that rates of food insecurity are up to 30 percent lower among households that receive SNAP compared to what they otherwise would be—with impacts for children that are at least this large. A recent study shows that the temporary increase in SNAP benefits implemented under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act resulted in 530,000 fewer households experiencing food insecurity. 2. SNAP’s positive impact on children begins even before birth and lasts well beyond their childhood years, including improving health, education, and economic outcomes. Maternal receipt of Food Stamps during pregnancy reduces the incidence of low birth-weight by between 5 and 23 percent. Among adults who grew up in disadvantaged households when the Food Stamp Program was first being introduced, access to Food Stamps before birth and in early childhood led to significant reductions in the likelihood of being obese (16 percentage points) and significant increases (18 percentage points) in the likelihood of completing high school. Early exposure to food stamps also led to reductions in metabolic syndrome (a cluster of conditions associated with heart disease and diabetes) and increased economic self-sufficiency among disadvantaged women. 3. While SNAP allows families to put more food on the table, current benefit levels are often not sufficient to sustain them through the end of the month, resulting in substantial consequences. New research has linked diminished food budgets at the end of each month to high-cost consequences, including: a drop-off in caloric intake, with estimates of this decline ranging from 10 to 25 percent over the course of the month; an increase in the rate of hospital admissions due to low blood sugar among low-income adults (a 27 percent increase between the first and last week of the month); an increase in the rate of disciplinary actions among school children in SNAP households (an 11 percent increase between the first and last week of the month); diminished student performance on standardized tests, with performance improving only gradually again after the next month’s benefits are received. 4. The Administration has developed several initiatives to improve food security and nutrition, particularly of vulnerable children. The most recent revision to the WIC food package, which provides supplemental nutrition to low-income women, infants, and children, added a cash value voucher (CVV) to allow participants to purchase fruits and vegetables on top of the basket of goods historically provided by the program, representing a substantial increase in the value of the package. The Community Eligibility Provision (CEP), offered nationwide starting in 2014, allows schools in high-poverty areas to offer free breakfast and lunch to all students. CEP has improved access to healthy meals in eligible schools, while eliminating the administrative burden associated with collecting and processing household applications for subsidized school meals. The Administration has also worked diligently to expand access for low-income children to nutritious food during the summer months when school meals are unavailable and the risk of food insecurity is heightened. In 2014, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) delivered 23 million more summer meals than in 2009. Congressman McGovern has been a strong supporter of the Administration’s successful implementation of the Summer Electronic Benefits Transfer for Children (SEBTC) pilots, which provide additional food assistance to low-income families with children during the summer months. These pilots were found to reduce very low food security among children by 26 percent. The President’s 2016 Budget proposed a significant expansion of this effort. ###
12.08.2015	With House Republicans continuing to protect suspected terrorists’ ability to buy lethal firearms, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) took action yesterday to force a vote on commonsense, life-saving legislation to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists. After House Republicans voted three times last week to block the House from debating H.R. 1076, Republican Congressman Peter King’s Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act, Congressman McGovern signed a discharge petition that would bring this critical legislation immediately up for a vote. The bill would close the dangerous loophole that allows suspected terrorists on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist to legally buy deadly weapons. “It is simply stunning that House Republicans refuse to close the loophole that lets suspected terrorists legally buy guns,” McGovern said. “As Members of Congress, our first responsibility is to protect and defend the American people – and that is why we must take urgent action to keep deadly firearms out of the hands of terrorists.” According to a report by the Government Accountability Office, since 2004, more than 2,000 suspects on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist have successfully purchased weapons in the United States. More than 90 percent of all suspected terrorists who attempted to purchase guns in the last 11 years walked away with the weapon they wanted, with just 190 rejected despite their ominous histories. “In the aftermath of the tragic attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, we must continue to strengthen our efforts to protect the American people,” McGovern added. “Americans are looking to Congress for real leadership and this is a clear opportunity for us to do something that will help to make our country safer. We must close the exceedingly dangerous terrorist gun loophole, and ensure that no suspected terrorist can walk into a gun store and legally purchase a deadly weapon.” ###
12.07.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) released the following statement in response to the statement by Donald Trump calling for a “complete shutdown” on entry to the United States for all Muslims. "Our nation was founded on the fundamental belief of freedom of religion and we welcome and respect people of all faiths. "Now more than ever, Americans must stand united. We must reject the dangerous ideas of those who seek to divide us. A policy that stigmatizes and isolates Americans of any faith makes us weaker, not stronger. It is beneath the vision and values of our founding fathers, the country they fought to create, and the Constitution that is the living embodiment of those ideals. "We are better than this and I urge all of our leaders, Democrats and Republicans, to come together to say with one clear voice that this is not who we are as a nation.” ###
12.03.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement marking the 16th anniversary of the Worcester Cold Storage and Warehouse Co. fire and honoring the six Worcester firefighters who lost their lives in the fire. “Every day, our families and communities are safer because of the service and sacrifice of our local firefighters. Today, we honor the Worcester Six who lost their lives 16 years ago battling the Worcester Cold Storage and Warehouse Co. fire. They literally walked through fire to save people they had never met. “Our thoughts are with the families of these brave firefighters. They exemplified what it means to be a firefighter, and it is their bravery, dedication, and selflessness that we remember. In Worcester, and throughout Massachusetts, firefighters continue to carry on that legacy today. “As a community, we reaffirm our commitment to support our local firefighters and ensure that they always have the support that they need to get the job done and come home safe every day. We will never forget the sacrifice of the Worcester Six.” The Worcester firefighters who lost their lives in the 1999 Worcester Cold Storage and Warehouse Co. fire were Firefighter Paul Brotherton of Auburn; Lieutenant Timothy Jackson, Sr. of Hopedale; Firefighter Jeremiah Lucey of Leicester; Lieutenant James Lyons III of Worcester; Firefighter Joseph McGuirk of Worcester; and Lieutenant Thomas Spencer of Worcester. ###
12.02.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the strong bipartisan House passage today of the Conference Report on S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act, which reauthorizes the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. Congressman McGovern welcomed the inclusion of provisions authorizing through 2020 the Innovative Approaches to Literacy (IAL), an early literacy grant program he has championed. In 2011, Congressman McGovern worked with Representatives Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Don Young (R-AK), and Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS) to establish the IAL grant program during the FY12 appropriations process and helped to secure $28.6 million for the program. “With the strong bipartisan passage of this bill, Congress has taken an important step to ensure that students in Massachusetts and across the country have access to a quality education and the important resources and opportunities they need to succeed. “As the lead sponsor of H.R. 523, the Prescribe a Book Act, I am thrilled that the Every Student Succeeds Act incorporates language from that legislation to authorize federal funding for pediatric early literacy promotion. “Reading to children at an early age is essential to giving them the strong start they need to succeed. All across the country, early literacy programs like Reach Out and Read are helping to make that possible and help them achieve their full potential. I am grateful for the strong bipartisan leadership to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act and the literacy program that is preparing our students for a brighter future.” Congressman McGovern visited a Reach Out and Read program in Webster, Massachusetts in October. Reach Out and Read is an evidence-based non-profit organization that operates through a network of 21,000 medical providers, serving 4.5 million children through 5,500 medical clinics in all 50 states, and distributes 6.5 million books annually. Click here to read more about the program. ###
12.02.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement on this week’s announcementthat the United States will deploy special operations troops to conduct raids in Iraq and Syria as part of the war against ISIS. In November, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan group of 35 House lawmakers in a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan calling for a debate and vote on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) for the U.S. military engagement against ISIS. Earlier this year, Congressman McGovern led a bipartisan push to force a vote on an AUMF. “With the U.S. deployment of special operations troops to conduct raids in Iraq and Syria, more and more of our brave men and women in uniform are headed to the frontlines of this conflict. Unfortunately, while we put more American soldiers in harm’s way, Congress continues to sit on the sidelines. “The American people elected us to lead, not to ignore our constitutional responsibility when it comes to matters of war. Yet it has now been nearly 300 days since President Obama sent a draft military authorization to Congress and we are still waiting for House Republican leaders to act. “In November, I led a broad bipartisan group of 35 House lawmakers in a call for Speaker Ryan to end the delay and bring an AUMF to the House floor for a debate and vote. “Some members of Congress think we need to expand our military presence. Others, like myself, are skeptical about escalating our involvement in the conflict. Where Republicans and Democrats strongly agree is on the need for Congress to have a say. We need to debate and vote on an AUMF that clearly defines the U.S. military campaign against ISIS. We cannot wait any longer.” ###
12.02.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) announced that Massachusetts has been awarded $63.7 million by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to help finance improvements to water projects that are essential to protecting public health and the environment. The funds will be primarily used to upgrade sewage plants and drinking water systems, as well as replacing aging infrastructure, throughout the state. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund (CWSRF) program, administrated by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP) and Massachusetts Clean Water Trust, received $47.4 million. EPA’s funding provides low-interest loans for water quality protection projects to make improvements to wastewater treatment systems, control pollution from stormwater runoff, and protect sensitive water bodies and estuaries. “Every family deserves access to clean drinking water and this award is a strong investment that will help communities across Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “With this funding, our cities and towns will have access to the low-interest loans they need to invest in water quality protection projects. Clean water is essential to healthy communities and this award will provide a much-needed boost to aging water infrastructure in Massachusetts. I’m grateful to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy for this important investment and look forward to seeing all the ways this award will help families across the Commonwealth.” "As weather, climate change and resource needs increasingly impact Massachusetts, its water infrastructure and pollution control needs continue to grow,” said Senator Edward J. Markey. “These grants will finance critical updates to the Commonwealth's public water systems to protect drinking water supplies, public health, and the environment, while also sparking innovation and creating jobs in construction and engineering.” The Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) program also administered by the MassDEP and MA Clean Water Trust, received $16.3 million. EPA's funding provides low-interest loans to finance improvements to drinking water systems with a particular focus on providing funds to small and disadvantaged communities and to programs that encouraged pollution prevention as a tool for ensuring safe drinking water. “This funding will pay for projects that improve water quality and protect drinking water across Massachusetts, and will provide benefits for decades to come,” said Curt Spalding, regional administrator of EPA’s New England office. “Clean drinking water and proper wastewater treatment are fundamental to protecting people’s health, but aging water infrastructure needs to be upgraded and repaired. EPA’s funding will help continue Massachusetts’ program to invest in drinking water and wastewater systems and protect people’s health.” “State Revolving Fund low- and no-interest loans are the most significant source of financing for cities and towns to improve and enhance their drinking water and wastewater systems,” said MassDEP Commissioner Martin Suuberg. “Massachusetts leverages these federal funds to finance up to $400 million annually in projects that protect our natural resources and the public health, while boosting the construction and engineering economy statewide.” “The Trust has been able to leverage the EPA's grants of $1.9 billion in the bond market creating over $6 billion in subsidized loans to communities throughout Massachusetts,” said Massachusetts Treasurer Deb Goldberg. “I am proud of the innovative financing that the Trust has implemented to make sure the grants reach their full potential in as many communities as possible.” Since the beginning of this program, EPA has awarded more than $1.9 billion to Massachusetts for the construction, expansion and upgrading of clean water infrastructure resulting in decreased pollutant loadings to waterbodies throughout the state. As communities develop and climate patterns shift, water infrastructure needs are expected to grow. Green infrastructure is a cost-effective and resilient approach to water infrastructure needs that provides benefits to communities across the nation. More information: Click here to read about the EPA’s Clean Water State Revolving Fund. Click here to read about the EPA’s Drinking Water State Revolving Fund. ###
12.01.2015	Today on the House floor, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) led the push by House Democrats to defeat three House Republican bills which would undermine critical progress made by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Obama administration’s continued efforts to address climate change. Click here for video of today’s floor speech. Speaking on the rule for consideration of these bills, Congressman McGovern said today’s measures are “yet another pander to big money, fossil fuels, and special interests. So I urge my colleagues to follow the money because that’s what this is all about here today. It’s not about serious legislating, it’s about fundraising.” “As we gather here,” McGovern added, “leaders from all around the world are meeting in Paris to talk about how to deal with the issue of climate change. What we should be doing here is providing some wind at the back of not only our president, but of all the leaders of the world who are gathering to try to figure out how to deal with this challenge. And instead of doing that, we’re doing this. It’s really sad that this is what we’ve come to here. In today’s floor speech, McGovern said we shouldn’t “stop commonsense regulations that the EPA has put in place that protect us from the harmful pollution emitted by power plants,” adding that “We shouldn’t be propping up the coal and oil industries with taxpayer subsidies. We shouldn’t be using taxpayer money to destroy our environment. When the scientific community reaches a clear consensus on an issue like climate change, Congress shouldn’t undermine them with dangerous legislation like this. McGovern called out the Republican bills for “allowing big gas companies to choose to build wherever they want, regardless of the consequences for local communities,” saying that “it would even allow them to build through our treasured national parks. It’s an early Christmas gift for big special interests. McGovern continued, “When Arctic ice is crashing into the oceans at record rates -- that is not a hoax. When species are going extinct at accelerated rates around the globe -- that is not a fantasy. When extreme weather events are becoming commonplace -- that’s not a theory. And when the global temperature of the planet continues to increase every year for decades -- we should pay attention. “The evidence is clear that climate change is real. But you’d never know that listening to Republicans. They have no solutions. Only denials. Let’s keep on going down the road of the same old same old. And their ‘just say no’ agenda is a recipe for disaster.” McGovern also noted that over 120 environmental, faith-based, and public health organizations have already come out opposing these anti-science bills from Republicans. These organizations include the American Lung Association, the League of Conservation Voters, the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC), Sierra Club, and Public Citizen. Click here for video of today’s floor speech. The Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech is Below: “I rise in opposition to this closed rule and the underlying legislation. I want to begin by congratulating the Republican Majority. Through their exemplary, heavy-handed, undemocratic leadership, this is now officially the most closed session of Congress in the entire history of the United States of America. I’m not sure that’s something to be proud of, but today, that’s a title they’ve earned. “Today we are debating the 47th and 48th closed rules of the 114th Congress. We are in our third legislative week since Speaker Ryan took the gavel, and we are already debating our third and fourth closed Rules during his short tenure. “Speaker Ryan promised a ‘more open, more inclusive, more deliberative, more participatory process.’ I think he must have misspoke because, by any measure, the Republican leadership has already fallen short of that commitment. “Today we are considering three bills -- two that seek to undermine the EPA’s ability to protect our public health and environment and a third that offers many troubling provisions, including one which would hastily rush the natural gas pipeline approval process and allow pipelines to be built and run right through our magnificent national parks. “On December 11th , our government will run out of money. During the 114th Congress, we have stood in this chamber debating Republican messaging bills to repeal the Affordable Care Act, undermine the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, and weaken public health and environmental regulations while failing to consider meaningful legislation that would create jobs, boost the economy, and help vulnerable Americans rise out of poverty. Instead of focusing on these priorities, this majority will bring to the floor three bills intended to prevent the EPA from effectively doing its job. “Now, if anyone is feeling déjà-vu, that’s probably because what I just said is from a floor speech I gave on a rule for three anti-science bills that the Republicans brought before us last November. The only difference is that I changed 113th to 114th Congress. And while I hate to repeat myself, unfortunately the majority is in a rut of bringing before us the same old same old unproductive legislation that is going nowhere. “We have six legislative days left to ensure that the government doesn’t run out of money -- just 6 days. But instead of focusing on that, instead of working to ensure the government is funded, we are on the floor debating more Republican messaging bills. Bills that I think were written in the Republican Congressional campaign committee because they’re poorly drafted and these bills would have drastic and devastating effects on public health and the environment. And they will be vetoed by the President of the United States. “But I guess the positive thing about these bills from the Republican point of view is that they are yet another pander to big money, fossil fuels, and special interests. So I urge my colleagues to follow the money because that’s what this is all about here today. It’s not about serious legislating, it’s about fundraising. “S.J. Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24 look to stop commonsense regulations that the EPA has put in place that protect us from the harmful pollution emitted by power plants. These joint resolutions are another clear message from the Republican Majority that they do not believe that climate change is real. Over 120 environmental, faith-based, and public health organizations have already come out opposing these two resolutions, including the American Lung Association, the Allergy and Asthma Network, the League of Conservation Voters, the National Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, and Public Citizen. “Power plants account for 40 percent of our annual carbon pollution emissions. They are the single biggest source of carbon pollution in this country. Yet, the Republican Majority wants to take away the greatest step we have taken to try to curb that major source of pollution. These two joint resolutions would permanently prevent the EPA from ever limiting carbon pollution from power plants in the future as well. “H.R. 8 is also a deeply troubling piece of legislation. It favors the use of fossil fuels over renewable energy and favors consumption over energy efficiency. It would ram pipeline applications through FERC in under 90 days, even though most applications are reviewed and approved in less than one year. It all but removes individuals from the process, allowing big gas companies to choose to build wherever they want, regardless of the consequences for local communities. It would even allow them to build through our treasured national parks. It’s an early Christmas gift for big special interests. “At some point, we must face the facts. I want to say something to my colleagues on the Republican side. I know it may make you feel uncomfortable, but it’s the truth. Climate Change is real. The overwhelming science says that it is real. Yet, a huge chunk of the Republican conference is in denial. They don’t believe there is such a thing as climate change. They don’t believe we have any responsibility to our children and future generations to combat climate change. They are perfectly happy living in this fantasy world you can just rely on fossil fuels and just make believe that it has no impact on our environment. “And quite frankly, if climate change wasn’t such an issue, the Republican response would be comical. But climate change is a serious issue. It is a real issue. It is an issue not just for us. It is an issue for future generations. So their denial is frightening. It is frightening. “We shouldn’t be propping up the coal and oil industries with taxpayer subsidies. We shouldn’t be using taxpayer money to destroy our environment. When the scientific community reaches a clear consensus on an issue like climate change, Congress shouldn’t undermine them with dangerous legislation like this. When we receive credible, peer-reviewed study after study telling us that we are in the middle of a climate crisis and that something must be done about it, we need to listen! But the Republican Majority refuses to listen. “Climate change is often referred to as the most pressing issue of our time. We know that climate change is real. We see it. We live it. And the scientific community has verified it. Climate change is not a theory; it’s not a hoax; and it’s certainly not some silly fantasy. “When Arctic ice is crashing into the oceans at record rates -- that is not a hoax. When species are going extinct at accelerated rates around the globe -- that is not a fantasy. When extreme weather events are becoming commonplace -- that’s not a theory. And when the global temperature of the planet continues to increase every year for decades -- we should pay attention. “These are the exact same scare tactics that has been using for 45 years. Opponents of clean air have been claiming for half a century that clean air regulations would kill jobs and hurt economic growth. But they are wrong -- the truth is: the Clean Air Act alone has created $57 trillion in benefits since it was enacted in 1970. The Clean Power Plan will lead to a stronger economy, a safer climate, and better health for all us. “Why is this so difficult? Maybe it’s because my friends on the other side of the aisle don’t like the president. So anything that he’s for, they have to be against. You have to move beyond your anger. You have to look at the issues and evaluate them based on the evidence. And the evidence is that climate change is real. But you’d never know that listening to Republicans. They have no solutions. Only denials. Let’s keep on going down the road of the same old same old. And their “just say no” agenda is a recipe for disaster. “As we gather here, leaders from all around the world are meeting in Paris to talk about how to deal with the issue of climate change. What we should be doing here is providing some wind at the back of not only our president, but of all the leaders of the world who are gathering to try to figure out how to deal with this challenge. And instead of doing that, we’re doing this. It’s really sad that this is what we’ve come to here. “If we are going to say “No” to anything today, it should be to this closed rule, and to S.J. Res. 23 and S. J. Res. 24.” ###
11.25.2015	In a bipartisan letter, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined co-leads Representatives Chellie Pingree (D-ME) and Richard Hanna (R-NY), and 60 of their Republican and Democratic colleagues in urging the leadership of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education to restore funding for the federal Preschool Development Grant program. Funding has been eliminated in recent drafts of the House and Senate appropriations bills. “Investing in our students is one of the smartest things we can do to support strong communities and help families succeed. Early childhood education programs give students the strong start they need to succeed in school for years to come,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Each year, this program helps states and local communities provide a high-quality preschool education. Without this essential investment, this education might be out of reach for many of our students. I am proud to join this bipartisan coalition calling on Congressional leaders to restore this funding and put our students first.” “Early childhood education benefits children for years afterward, but it’s just too expensive for many families,” Congresswoman Chellie Pingree said. “This grant program is critical in helping states and local communities offer high-quality preschool education to more students who may not be able to access it otherwise. I’ve had the chance to visit classrooms that are supported by this program and parents rave that it’s made a big difference for their children. I hope funding will be restored so even more students can benefit.” “I fully support restoring this critical funding for our youngest learners,” Congressman Richard Hanna said. “Early childhood education helps make our nation become more competitive and ensures that each child has the opportunity to reach his or her full potential. One in four children starts their life in poverty. Through education, we can ensure their lives do not end in poverty.” Preschool Development Grants provide funds to build and expand public preschool programs in high-need communities—it extends enrollment to children in families whose incomes are too high for Head Start but would not likely be able to afford private preschools. The grants are matched with funds on the state and local level. Click here to read the bipartisan letter. Currently, 18 states are using the grants to give 33,000 four-year-olds access to programs that make use of evidence-based curricula and practices. An additional 60,000 children are expected to be served during the third and fourth year of the grant, but will miss out if funding is eliminated. Research shows that every dollar spent on evidence-based prekindergarten provides a $7 to $10 return on investment by reductions in remedial education, juvenile delinquency, and teen pregnancy, and increases in workforce readiness. In addition to McGovern, Hanna, and Pingree, the letter was also signed by Donald Beyer (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), David Cicilline (D-RI), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Pete DeFazio (D-OR), John Delaney (D-MD), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Tulsi Gabbard (D-IL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Brian Higgins (D-NY), James Himes (D-CT), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Michael Honda (D-CA), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), William Keating (D-MA), Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ), Anne McLane Kuster (D-NH), James Langevin (D-RI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Richard Neal (D-MA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Bill Pascrell Jr. (D-NJ), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Mike Rogers (R-AL), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Krysten Sinema (D-AZ), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Mark Takai (D-HI), Mark Takano (D-CA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), John Yarmuth (D-KY), and Steve Cohen (D-TN). ###
11.24.2015	AMHERST, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) was joined by Congressman Joe Kennedy (MA-04) on the 6th annual “Monte’s March.” Aimed at helping local families in need put food on the table this Thanksgiving, this year’s march is the longest yet, lasting two days and stretching 43 miles across Western Massachusetts. Kennedy joined McGovern and the march when the group stopped at the Amherst Survival Center this morning. Click here to view photos online. “Helping families who have fallen on hard times is what this holiday season is all about. I am proud to have Congressman Joe Kennedy marching with us in this year’s Monte’s March to help hungry families in Massachusetts,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “When it comes to hunger, it’s one thing to talk the talk, but today, we walked the walk. The support shown by our communities in Western Massachusetts has been overwhelming. Thank you to all who joined us in our 43-mile march to help families in need this Thanksgiving.” “No child or family should ever go to bed hungry in our Commonwealth or country. Few have fought harder to eradicate hunger than Congressman McGovern and walking beside him today was a truly humbling experience,” Congressman Joe Kennedy said. In addition to Kennedy, Congressman McGovern was joined today by the founder of Monte’s March, WRSI The River radio host Monte Belmonte, Andrew Morehouse, the Executive Director of The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, local mayors, and other community leaders. Since 2010, the march has been an annual tradition and has already helped provide 729,000 meals to families in need in the last five years. This year’s march will be the longest yet at 43 miles, starting yesterday with stop in Chicopee, Holyoke and Northampton, and continuing today with stops in Hadley, Amherst and Sunderland before ending today in Greenfield. ###
11.23.2015	SPRINGFIELD, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) was joined by Congressman Richard E. Neal (MA-01) to kick off the 6th annual “Monte’s March.” The two-day walk is part of Congressman McGovern’s anti-hunger push in Western Massachusetts and is aimed at helping to increase awareness about hunger and help local families in need this Thanksgiving. View photo online. “Today, I was proud to start this year’s hunger march in Western Massachusetts with Congressman Neal in Springfield. As we prepare for Thanksgiving this week, this march is a great opportunity to help our families and neighbors who are struggling,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “By partnering with the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts for this march today and tomorrow, we are bringing our communities together to honor the holiday spirit and help put food on the table for families in need. I am inspired by all the support and look forward to seeing everyone on the trail.” “In the United States last year, more than 48 million people lived in food in-secure households. As Americans come together to celebrate Thanksgiving , those numbers are simply unacceptable. Our country need to do more to help fight hunger, and that is why I support Monte’s March and the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. Along with my friend Jim McGovern, they help put food on the table for thousands of people in our region not just during the holiday season, but throughout the year,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. Joining Congressman McGovern on the march today are the founder of Monte’s March, WRSI The River radio host Monte Belmonte, Andrew Morehouse, the Executive Director of The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, local mayors, and other community leaders. Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) will join Congressman McGovern tomorrow at 10:30 a.m. when the march continues with a stop at the Amherst Survival Center, 138 Sunderland Rd, Amherst. This year’s march will be the longest yet at 42 miles. After the march started in Springfield this morning, it continued with stops scheduled in Chicopee, Holyoke and Northampton. The march will continue tomorrow with stops in Hadley, Amherst and Sunderland. Tomorrow at about 5:30 p.m., the march will end at Magpie Woodfired Pizzeria on 21 Bank Row in Greenfield. Click here to see the full schedule and route map. ###
11.20.2015	SPRINGFIELD, MA – On Monday, November 23rd, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will be kicking off the 6th annual “Monte’s March,” a 42-mile two-day walk as part of his anti-hunger push in Western Massachusetts. The march is aimed at helping to increase awareness about hunger in local communities and help families in need this thanksgiving. “As families across Massachusetts prepare for Thanksgiving, there are many families who are struggling just to put food on the table,” Congressman McGovern said. “To help raise awareness and bring our communities together to help these families in need, we’ll be kicking off the sixth annual Monte’s March, the longest-yet at 42 miles across Western Massachusetts. Hunger is something that touches families across the Commonwealth, but together, we can help to ensure that every family has access to healthy meals this holiday season.” Joining Congressman McGovern for the full 42 miles will be the founder of Monte’s March, WRSI The River radio host Monte Belmonte, Andrew Morehouse, the Executive Director of The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. Also joining part of the march will be Representatives Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) and Richard Neal (MA-01), local mayors, and other community leaders. This year’s march will be the longest yet at 42 miles, starting on Monday with stop in Chicopee, Holyoke and Northampton, and continuing on Tuesday with stops in Hadley, Amherst and Sunderland before ending in Greenfield. Throughout the march, you can listen along on 93.9 The River. Click here for more information about the march. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and the following: Monte Belmonte WRSI The River radio host Andrew Morehouse, Executive Director of The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts Representative Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) Representative Richard Neal (MA-01) Local mayors and other community leaders WHAT: Monte’s March, a 42-mile anti-hunger march across Western Massachusetts WHERE: On Monday 11/23: 7 AM kickoff event at St. John's Church in Springfield, MA The march continues Monday with stops in Chicopee, Holyoke and Northampton On Tuesday 11/24 with stops in Hadley, Amherst, Sunderland, and ending in Greenfield WHEN: Monday at 7:00AM – March Starts at St. John's Church, 643 Union St, Springfield, MA ###
11.19.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), the second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, led the floor debate for House Democrats on H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act or American SAFE Act. Click here for video of the full video of the floor speech. McGovern called out the House Republican bill as a dangerous step backward that does nothing to strengthen national security and only seeks to divide Americans by stirring fears about Syrian refugees. All refugees are subject to the highest level of security checks of any category of traveler to the United States and the security process is working. Earlier this year, McGovern and Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) and other members of Congress traveled to the Syrian border to see firsthand the suffering experienced by Syrian refugees and the need for the U.S. to continue its work with allies to provide humanitarian relief and address the refugee crisis. Excerpts of Today’s Floor Speech by Congressman McGovern: “Keeping Americans safe is our top priority and in the wake of the Paris attacks, that mission has never been more important. But in the days since those terrible attacks, there has been a deeply troubling debate about whether the U.S. should accept Syrian refugees. In the past week, we’ve heard far too many of our leaders stirring up fear and far too few talking about the facts. “Americans want an honest and serious debate about how we can keep our country safe […] Instead of debating a bill that might actually strengthen and enhance our refugee resettlement screening process, we are debating a bill that appeals to the worst in us and hurts the very people who are fleeing the violence” “The simple truth is that the United States already has in place the most rigorous screening process for refugee resettlement in the world […] We have already resettled over 1,800 Syrian refugees over the past 4 years in 130 communities across America. In the past year, Massachusetts has resettled 62 Syrian refugees, including 24 in my hometown of Worcester. And of the 2,174 Syrian refugees that we have resettled in the United States since 9/11, not a single one has been arrested or deported on terrorism-related grounds. Not one. “America is at a critical crossroads. It’s moments like this that define who we are as a nation. This bill […] would only perpetuate the politics of fear and intolerance. Americans are better than that and now more than ever, we must stay true to our values. Our enemies want to divide us. “We must not abandon the clear-eyed compassion that has made America the shining city on a hill for more than two centuries, giving hope to so many generations before us, in search of a better life for themselves and their children. […] We cannot turn our backs on the values at the heart of our identity as Americans. To do this would cede a victory to the terrorists. “I am so proud of America’s leadership in providing $4.5 billion in humanitarian aid to Syrian refugees in the region, more than any other country. I am also proud that U.S. refugee resettlement places a priority on accepting widows with children and highly vulnerable individuals, especially the elderly and the infirm. “Let’s stop wasting our time with a bill that’s going nowhere and fails to offer the serious approach we need to keep America safe and address this crisis.” Full Text of Congressman McGovern’s Floor Speech is Below: As Prepared for Delivery “Today, we are about to debate the 46th closed rule this Congress, making this the most closed session of Congress in history. Speaker Ryan promised an open and deliberative process when he took the gavel. He has already reneged on that promise. “Representatives Bennie Thompson and Zoe Lofgren offered an alternative to today’s bill that deserves debate on the House floor, but Republicans on the Rules Committee prohibited debate under this completely closed process. “The bill we’re about to debate wasn't even introduced until 10:14 p.m. Tuesday night. There have been no hearings or mark-ups, and no opportunities for bipartisan input. Even more stunning, the Judiciary Committee is holding a hearing today -- right now -- on the very subject we will vote on in an hour! “We all understand why people are anxious and concerned. We all watched with horror as the brutal attacks in Paris played out on our TV screens. And our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the people of Paris whose courage inspires all of us. “Keeping Americans safe is our top priority and in the wake of the Paris attacks, that mission has never been more important. But in the days since those terrible attacks, there has been a deeply troubling debate about whether the U.S. should accept Syrian refugees. In the past week, we’ve heard far too many of our leaders stirring up fear and far too few talking about the facts. “Americans want an honest and serious debate about how we can keep our country safe, but this bill, the so-called ‘American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act or “American SAFE Act,” falls far short. Instead of debating a bill that might actually strengthen and enhance our refugee resettlement screening process, we are debating a bill that appeals to the worst in us and hurts the very people who are fleeing the violence and chaos ISIS has wrought. “The authors of H.R. 4038 boast that “this legislation would put in place the most robust national-security vetting process in history for any refugee population.” But, the simple truth is that the United States already has in place the most rigorous screening process for refugee resettlement in the world. “Right now, America’s refugee screening process already involves 7 different federal departments and agencies, including the State Department, Department of Homeland Security, National Counter-Terrorism Center, FBI’s Terrorist Screening Center, Defense Department, U.S. Customs and Immigration Service, and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. “And beyond that, every refugee from Syria is also subjected to an additional layer of scrutiny. This process is so detailed that it takes, on average, about 2 years for each refugee to be fully screened and allowed to enter the U.S., under the sponsorship of a local social service agency, and be settled here. Two years. “I would think that every member of this House would feel reassured knowing that such a process is already in place to protect our citizens and communities. We have already resettled over 1,800 Syrian refugees over the past 4 years in 130 communities across America. In the past year, Massachusetts has resettled 62 Syrian refugees, including 24 in my hometown of Worcester. And of the 2,174 Syrian refugees that we have resettled in the United States since 9/11, not a single one has been arrested or deported on terrorism-related grounds. Not one. “I recognize that there are ways we can strengthen that process further. The Congress could consult and work with the Administration, including Homeland Security, the State Department, the national intelligence agencies, and the FBI, to identify and discuss areas where enhancements can be made. “But that’s not what the authors of this bill did. And it’s clear that wasn’t their intention either. What H.R. 4038 would actually “achieve” is the creation of a so-called process that would shut down all refugee resettlement from Syria and Iraq. It’s not meant to make things better. It’s meant to make it completely unworkable. “And nothing in this bill actually improves the FBI’s or any other intelligence agency’s ability to conduct a more effective screening process. If you want to do that, give them more money for more personnel and consult with them directly about how to strengthen the existing screening process. This bill hasn’t done that. Right now, of the more than 1,800 Syrian refugees resettled in the United States since 2012, half are children, a quarter are adults over the age of 60, and none have been involved in anything remotely tied to terrorism or violent activity. “America is at a critical crossroads. It’s moments like this that define who we are as a nation. This bill – along with the deeply-troubling rhetoric that surrounds it – would only perpetuate the politics of fear and intolerance. Americans are better than that and now more than ever, we must stay true to our values. Our enemies want to divide us. We must remain strong and united in the face of this evil. We must not abandon the clear-eyed compassion that has made America the shining city on a hill for more than two centuries, giving hope to so many generations before us, in search of a better life for themselves and their children. “In July, I traveled to Gaziantep, Turkey near the Syrian border with a Congressional Delegation led by Senator Tim Kaine. While we were there, we heard directly from government leaders and local NGOs and charities on the front lines helping the countless Syrian refugees who have lost their homes and many of their friends and family. They are desperate to escape the violence and are part of the world’s worst refugee crisis since World War II. We cannot shirk from this moment when strong American leadership is needed. “One of the most important reminders of the legacy we must live up to is the Statue of Liberty. For more than a hundred years, it has stood as an enduring symbol of America’s promise of a better life for the “huddled masses yearning to breathe free.” We cannot turn our backs on the values at the heart of our identity as Americans. To do this would cede a victory to the terrorists. “Yet the fear, anger, prejudice and isolationism that are driving the current debate on Syrian refugees remind me of some of the darkest and ugliest chapters of modern American history. Many Americans – some in this chamber – still remember the moment in our nation’s history when we turned away ships filled with Jewish refugees desperate to escape Nazi Germany and imprisoned our fellow citizens of Japanese heritage in internment camps. Do we really want to return to these kinds of destructive and hateful policies? Is that really who we are today? “I am so proud of America’s leadership in providing $4.5 billion in humanitarian aid to Syrian refugees in the region, more than any other country. I am also proud that U.S. refugee resettlement places a priority on accepting widows with children and highly vulnerable individuals, especially the elderly and the infirm. “H.R. 4038 would shut down our resettlement program altogether. That’s what it wants to do, and that’s what it intends to do. “The refugees eligible for resettlement in the U.S. are not the refugees in Europe. The refugees coming into the U.S. through our resettlement program have been living in refugee camps for months, often years, under unimaginably harsh conditions. “A woman and her 3-year-old little girl whose home in Syria was reduced to rubble by barrel bombs, and whose husband has been killed, she will be denied the opportunity to go through the rigorous screening process to find a new home in America. “An elderly woman who has lost everything and is barely alive now in the refugee camps, will be denied a home in America, even if she has some distant relatives already in the United States. “Where is our humanity? None of the Syrian refugees who have already made it through our screening process and been resettled in the United States fits the description of the terrorist I heard described over and over again last night in the Rules Committee. Those ugly distortions of the people we are resettling only emphasize how out of touch with reality this debate has gotten. “If we really want to help make America more safe and more secure in the wake of the Paris attacks, then we should put more money in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill for the FBI, for DHS and for our local law enforcement agencies so they can continue focusing on criminal and home-grown, as well as possible foreign, individuals and networks that might engage in violence against our citizens. “And while we’re at it, we should also increase the funding for the State Department, HHS, the UNHCR and the NGOs who provide humanitarian aid abroad and resettlement support to refugee families here in America. “But let’s stop wasting our time with a bill that’s going nowhere and fails to offer the serious approach we need to keep America safe and address this crisis.” ###
11.18.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi joined other Members of the Congressional Delegation for a press conference yesterday to talk about their historic visit to China and Tibet last week. This trip marks the first time a U.S. Congressional Delegation has visited Tibet since the anti-government unrest in 2008. Click here to read more about the trip. Click here for the full transcript of the press conference. McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress calling for human rights reforms in China. When President Obama met with Chinese President Xi Jinping in September, McGovern partnered with Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) to host a bipartisan “stateless breakfast” to give voice to Tibetan human rights activists who have been subject to crackdowns by the Chinese government. Press Conference Video: Click here for video of Congressman McGovern’s opening statement. Click here for video of his responses to reporter questions. Congressman McGovern’s Opening Statement: “Thank you. I want to thank Leader Pelosi for organizing this trip, and for allowing me to be part of it. Everywhere that Leader Pelosi or the delegation and I went in Tibet and Beijing, we talked about Tibet; we talked about His Holiness the Dalai Lama; we talked about human rights and the importance of respect for people’s culture and religion. “We had a very good exchange with Chinese officials and, especially, with university students, both in Tibet and Beijing. I saw this trip, and especially the delegation’s visit to Tibet, as an important gesture by the Chinese government. I think we were the first Members of Congress to be granted a visa to travel to Tibet in many years. So this is an important gesture. “But more needs to be done. And we must find ways to build on this visit, and make the reforms needed for meaningful change, such as: one, allowing the United States to open a consulate in Lhasa, Tibet; two, allowing more Members of Congress, more journalists, more members of parliament from other nations, and more people in general – including Members of the Tibetan community here in the United States – to travel freely to Tibet; and three, renewing the dialogue with the Dalai Lama to resolve longstanding issues of Tibetan autonomy, religious practice, culture and heritage. “I believe that His Holiness the Dalai Lama is part of the solution, not the problem, to resolving the issues confronting Tibetan autonomy. You know, one of the things that concerned me – we heard too often from some, not all, but some Chinese officials, we heard language and characterizations of Tibet and the Dalai Lama showing that people’s minds and imaginations are stuck in the past, in old prejudices. The issue is not the past. The issue is the future of Tibet and its people. “Renewing dialogue must be genuine and productive, and it cannot be just another guise for wasting time or going through the motions – but a dialogue based on good faith and the mutual need to resolve outstanding issues in a way that is acceptable to all parties. Undertaking such initiatives would be a positive reflection on the capacity of Chinese authorities to engage in constructive dialogue, and increase confidence that the government is committed to reconciliation and ending abuses in Tibet. The Chinese government has invested a great deal in Tibet, and that was very clear to us. “But that investment should not come at the price of an entire culture. You cannot confine a people’s culture and heritage – their very sense of identity – to a museum or a market of handicrafts. The human rights of the Tibetan people must be strengthened and protected, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress, with Leader Pelosi, to push for the reforms needed to achieve this. Again, I view this trip as a very productive step, and a very important first step towards resolving some of these important issues.” Congressman McGovern’s Responses to Reporter Questions Are Below: Also included are some comments from Leader Pelosi. Q: Congresswoman Pelosi, did you get a sense from the trip that china could reduce restrictions in Tibet and possibly even start talking to the Dalai Lama? And secondly, the Tibetan Daily quotes you as praising the Chinese government for its actions in Tibet and protecting religious freedoms. Doesn’t sound like you would say that. Leader Pelosi. I’ll let my colleague, Congressman McGovern, speak to that. Congressman McGovern? Congressman McGovern. As I said – I’ll just repeat it. We continue to be concerned about the human rights situation in Tibet and about religious freedom issues and about people’s abilities to be able to live a life that they want. We had some very heated exchanges with Chinese government officials over a whole range of issues involving Tibet, including His Holiness the Dalai Lama. Some were more heated than others. Some drew a line in the sand. Some discussions I felt there was an openness to constructive dialogue. And I think that’s how we come to this issue at this point. Is that we can’t – we went, we learned, we appreciate the opportunity to be granted the opportunity to visit, but we want to move beyond the past, and we want to see whether or not the Chinese government is willing to engage in some constructive dialogue that can help promote reconciliation that can help resolve some of the issues that have torn families apart for many, many years. I can’t tell you with certainty that the Chinese government will agree to doing ‘x,y and z,’ but I don’t think any of us came away feeling that the door was entirely closed on anything. And so our challenge is to work with our colleagues in a bipartisan way to see what can be done. And we are hopeful. And we’re hopeful, as I said, we can open up a consulate in Tibet which I think would be an important step. We’re hopeful that they’ll allow others to visit. And we’re hopeful that we’ll begin a more formal dialogue with His Holiness the Dalai Lama to resolve a whole range of issues. Q: If I could just add onto that. In your conversations, did the issue of the Uighurs in the Xinjiang region come up? Because there are some concerns about that region… Congressman McGovern. Well we are concerned about the Uighurs and about – we talked about some of the lawyers that were arrested, women who were arrested for protesting and passing out leaflets involving domestic violence. So we raised a whole range of human rights issues that go beyond just Tibet. So the Chinese government knows that those issues are still very much of concern to all of us. Q: Madam Speaker, I want to ask you about the visit to Tibet. How do you understand the intention of President Xi or the Chinese Communist Party receiving your visit to the sensitive regions? And did you feel any restrictions during your stay in China? Leader Pelosi. Would anyone like to speak to the restriction part and then I’ll go to the first part of the question? Well, let me just say that our final visit before we came – we left China – was with the Premier of China, and it was a very positive meeting – again, respectful and with clarity of purpose and also with the recognition that the cooperation between America and China is really important, not only to our two countries but to the entire world. I think they had a pretty good idea of what we accepted as freedom of movement and what we recognized as containment of our activities there. But again, we were there, and we saw, and we made judgements. We learned, we made judgements, and we will act upon them as we go forward in the most positive way. My colleagues, any comment on the restriction or anything? Congressman McGovern. I think it’s fair to say that I think the Chinese government wanted to control as much of our visit as they could. And we saw what they wanted us to see. We also saw things that they didn’t want us to see. And I think what they didn’t count on was the tenacity of Leader Pelosi, who wanted to visit religious sites, who wanted to visit monasteries, and who insisted and insisted and kind of wore some of these officials down so that we were able to see what we wanted to see as well. So, I felt like we got a wide perspective of life in Tibet. And we went to the meetings that the Chinese government wanted us to go to. We also visited places that we thought were important to the Tibetan people, to our constituents and to a lot of the people who have expressed concerns about human rights over the years. I think we got a good exposure. Leader Pelosi. And right from the start with all this – I think 30 is probably a conservative estimate because there were people who – shall we say – had walkie talkies that may not have been identified as security who are part of the mass movement through the – down the path and through the old part of Tibet. But, those same people, right from the start, kind of complained that there was too much ‘tashi delek’ going on between us and the people who were standing around. They were like: ‘She wasn’t supposed to be doing that.’ ‘You weren’t supposed to be doing that.’ But, we did. Q: Leader Pelosi, you were in Dharamsala in 2008, when there was a huge crackdown in Tibet, and we know what you said to Dalai Lama again. You went to Dharamsala before Fasa as a victory. Now my question is: how is China finally trying to make peace with Leader Pelosi? Leader Pelosi. We had planned in like November to be in India in March. Actually, Tom Lantos was going to be a part of our trip, and then sadly, he was diagnosed and left us just around the time of the new year. So, this was a long-planned trip. It just so happened that we got to India and Dharamsala after the crackdown in Tibet. So the Chinese thought we just up-and-flew there so that we could be there to protest what was happening. We would’ve been protesting it wherever we were. But in fact, it was – a visit to the prime minister of India to – you know, it was part of a trip to India that we also had a priority to visit His Holiness. So at that time, when we made our statements and we had a large bipartisan delegation visiting His Holiness, they thought that was all planned. But if it were planned, we were really better at planning than we’ve ever been. It was really more a coincidence, but it served a purpose. So after that, they said to me, ‘We want to restart our relationship. We invite you to China.’ So, I went to China the next year. Although we talked about human rights, we focused on climate change then and we are continuing that conversation because we believe that it is really important that our two nations are in sync on it. And I do have to say that the fragility of the plateau – we were at the roof of the world, and it’s a very important place to the ecology of the entire world, and for that, as the gentleman indicated, I gave the Chinese credit for protecting the ecology, the environment as they are in the rest of China. So that’s a place where we have a very constructive conversation going and have been for a number of years before this visit. Q: You mentioned that journalists weren’t able to come with you on the trip. Is that a condition of the Chinese government or how did that happen? And how did that affect your thinking… Leader Pelosi. Well, we didn’t – until we landed in Tibet, we didn’t even know if we were going to be in Tibet. Yeah. So, that’s – in other words, we found out the day before we left that we had the visa to go to Tibet, but we – until we actually got there, that’s when we knew we would be there. Q: What about the rest of the trip? You said that journalists weren’t allowed to come with you. Leader Pelosi. No – well, we didn’t travel with journalists. In other words, the Chinese press was covering the trip. Now, I think – it’s specific, I mean, because there are many journalists in Beijing, but, you know, Tibet is a – Lhasa – it’s a different story, whether it’s opening an embassy, they talked about – I mean, a consulate. They talked about exchange students – more exchange students between our two countries. Well, that would speak to having a consulate there to address the needs of families visiting or students going there. So we think there are some openings that could happen. That would be very wholesome. I thank the President of China, the Premier of China, the officials who greeted us – because they – really, it was a giant step forward, and we are grateful for it. Thank you all very much. ###
11.16.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement about the role of the United States in addressing the Syrian refugee crisis: “Keeping Massachusetts families safe is my first priority. While I agree with Governor Baker that we must be cautious in the wake of the Paris attacks, I have serious concerns about any policy that would shut the door to these Syrian refugees. The people who are fleeing Syria are the very people who are harmed most by terrorism. Throughout our country’s history, we have stepped up to help to the most vulnerable, especially the innocent victims of war. “America’s refugee resettlement program has one of the most thorough security and vetting procedures in the world. Often, refugees from Syria’s violent conflict wait up to two years before they receive a visa to resettle here in the U.S. With such rigorous screening measures in place, it is clear that we can help those in need while also keeping our country safe. “Turning our back on these refugees now is not the answer. It would only further isolate these communities and increase instability in an already dangerous region. We have an opportunity to help end the cycle of violence by giving these refugees a second chance. This is a defining moment and I urge our leaders in Massachusetts and across the country to do the right thing by working with the president to address this humanitarian crisis and help these families in need.” ###
11.14.2015	Congressman McGovern with Leader Pelosi and the Congressional delegation in front of the Potala Palace in Lhasa during their historic visit to Tibet. Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), the Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, issued the following statement after joining Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and other lawmakers on an historic Congressional delegation to Tibet, Beijing and Hong Kong. “With this trip, our Congressional delegation continued the important dialogue between the U.S. and China. I have long raised concerns about China’s human rights record in Tibet. As the first Congressional delegation to enter Tibet since the 2008 unrest, this was an important opportunity to raise the voices of the Tibetan people. “In our time in Beijing and Hong Kong, we discussed the importance of the U.S. and China working together to address climate change, increase the protection of cyber space and countering the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Additionally, our delegation discussed autonomy and democracy in Hong Kong and the need to strengthen human rights and women’s rights throughout China. “America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights at home and abroad. Human rights in China, and Tibet in particular, continue to be an area of grave concern. We will be looking at ways to increase the push for needed reforms in the days and weeks ahead. In every meeting, we emphasized the strong bipartisan support in Congress for the Dalai Lama and the need to strengthen and protect the human rights, religion and culture of the Tibetan people. “I am grateful to Leader Pelosi for leading this delegation and to U.S. Ambassador Max Baucus, US Counsel General Clifford Hart, and the State Department officials who helped to facilitate this important trip.” TIBET In Tibet, the delegation met with the Secretary of the Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR), Chen Quanguo; Vice Party Secretary of TAR, Baima Chilin; and Party Secretary of Lhasa, Qi Zhala. The delegation visited UNESCO World Heritage Sites including the Potala Palace, which served as the living quarters and burial sites for former Dalai Lamas; and the Jokhang Temple, a sacred destination for religious pilgrims. The delegation also met and observed monks at the Sera Monastery. BEIJING In Beijing, the delegation met with the Premier of the People’s Republic of China, Li Keqiang; National People’s Congress Chairman, Zhang Dejiang; and National People’s Congress Vice Chairman, Zhang Ping. At Peking University, the delegation participated in a climate change forum with students who shared their determination to address the climate crisis. HONG KONG While in Hong Kong, the delegation met with Hong Kong Chief Executive C.Y. Leung to discuss the importance of preserving Hong Kong’s autonomy and the importance of the US-Hong Kong bilateral relationship. The delegation also met with Pan-Democratic, Labor and Liberal Party legislators. In addition to Leader Pelosi, Congressman McGovern was joined by Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN), Timothy Walz (D-MN), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Ted Lieu (D-CA). ###
11.06.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement after President Obama announced that the Administration was denying the permit for the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline: “Today, I am pleased to see that President Obama rejected the Keystone tar sands pipeline. I appreciate his continued commitment to investing in clean energy. “Since 2008, the U.S. has doubled the distance our cars will go on a gallon of gas by 2025 and significantly increased the power we generate from wind and solar. Thanks in part to America’s leadership, more than 150 countries representing close to 90 percent of global emissions, have announced plans to help cut global pollution. “We owe it to the next generation to do all we can to combat climate change and strengthen our investment in clean, renewable energy sources.” ###
11.06.2015	A broad, bipartisan coalition of 35 House lawmakers called on Speaker Ryan today to schedule and debate an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) as quickly as possible following the recent announcement by President Obama of a deepening entanglement in Syria and Iraq. The letter to Speaker Ryan is led by Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Tom Cole, (R-OK), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Walter Jones (R-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), and John Lewis (D-GA). Click here to view the letter. “Last week, the president announced [that] the U.S. will deploy a U.S. Special Operations contingent into northern Syria to be embedded with and to advise opposition militant forces in that region; and U.S. military advisors and special operations forces already in Iraq will be embedded with Kurdish and Iraqi forces on the front lines of combat,” the lawmakers wrote, calling the move part of “a significant escalation in U.S. military operations in the region” that places “U.S. military personnel on the front lines of combat operations.” “We do not share the same policy prescriptions for U.S. military engagement in the region, but we do share the belief that it is past time for the Congress to fulfill its obligations under the Constitution and vote on an AUMF that clearly delineates the authority and limits, if any, on U.S. military engagement in Iraq, Syria and the surrounding region,” the lawmakers added. “Congress can no longer ask our brave service men and women to continue to serve in harm’s way while we fail in carrying out our constitutional responsibility in the area of war and peace,” the lawmakers concluded. “As long as the House fails to assert its constitutional prerogatives and authority, the Administration may continue to expand the mission and level of engagement of U.S. Armed Forces throughout the region. We strongly urge you, Mr. Speaker, to bring an AUMF to the floor of the House as quickly as possible.” Other Members signing the letter are Reps. Justin Amash (R-MI), Michael Burgess (R-TX), David Cicilline (D-RI), John Conyers (D-MI), Joe Crowley (D-NY), John Abney Culberson (R-TX), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), John J. Duncan, Jr. (R-TN), John Garamendi (D-CA), Paul A. Gosar (R-AZ), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Richard L. Hanna (R-NY), Joe Kennedy (D-MA), Daniel Kildee (D-MI), Raúl R. Labrador (R-ID), Thomas Massie (R-KY), Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Bill Posey (R-FL), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA), Matt Salmon (R-AZ), Mark Sanford (R-SC), Janice D. Schakowsky (D-IL), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Ted S. Yoho (R-FL), and Ryan K. Zinke (R-MT). The full letter, sent today, can be found below: The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker U.S. House of Representatives H-232 U.S. Capitol Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, Among the issues that require urgent attention by the U.S. House of Representatives is the question of the extant of involvement by the U.S. military in the war against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Given the recent announcement by President Obama of a deepening entanglement in Syria and Iraq, it is critical that the House schedule and debate an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) as quickly as possible. Last week, the president announced initiatives that escalate U.S. engagement in combat operations in Syria and Iraq. Specifically, the U.S. will deploy a U.S. Special Operations contingent into northern Syria to be embedded with and to advise opposition militant forces in that region; and U.S. military advisors and special operations forces already in Iraq will be embedded with Kurdish and Iraqi forces on the front lines of combat. Secretary of Defense Carter also stated that U.S. air operations in both Syria and Iraq will increase their bombing campaigns. Taken all together, these represent a significant escalation in U.S. military operations in the region and place U.S. military personnel on the front lines of combat operations. We do not share the same policy prescriptions for U.S. military engagement in the region, but we do share the belief that it is past time for the Congress to fulfill its obligations under the Constitution and vote on an AUMF that clearly delineates the authority and limits, if any, on U.S. military engagement in Iraq, Syria and the surrounding region. U.S. bombing campaigns have been going on for more than a year, and U.S. troops on the ground have been increasingly close to or drawn into combat operations, including the recent death in combat of a special operations soldier in Iraq. Consistent with your pledge to return to regular order, we urge you to direct the committees of jurisdiction to draft and report out an AUMF as soon as possible. We do not believe in the illusion of a consensus authorization, something that only happens rarely. We do believe the Congress can no longer ask our brave service men and women to continue to serve in harm’s way while we fail in carrying out our constitutional responsibility in the area of war and peace. As long as the House fails to assert its constitutional prerogatives and authority, the Administration may continue to expand the mission and level of engagement of U.S. Armed Forces throughout the region. We strongly urge you, Mr. Speaker, to bring an AUMF to the floor of the House as quickly as possible. Sincerely, ###
11.05.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) is joining Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi on a Congressional delegation trip to China, departing today and focusing on economic growth, national security and cyber security issues, human rights and the importance of bold action to reduce carbon pollution. “In today’s global world, it is more important than ever for the United States to work with our international partners to tackle the challenges we face,” Congressman McGovern said. “On this trip, I look forward to continuing the dialogue between our two nations as we discuss ways to grow the global economy, address climate change, and strengthen human rights. I look forward to a constructive trip and I am grateful to Leader Pelosi for her work to lead this delegation.” “Our delegation travels to China seeking to expand cooperation between our nations in advancing economic growth and confronting the climate crisis that threatens our world,” said Leader Pelosi. “Our Members will also seek to engage in constructive dialogue on human rights, cyber threats, and other national security and stability issues of concern.” As Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in the push for reforms in China to strengthen human rights there. The delegation will meet with local Chinese government officials, students, and civil society. In addition to Leader Pelosi and Congressman McGovern, the Members of the delegation include Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN), Timothy Walz (D-MN), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Ted Lieu (D-CA). ###
11.05.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), joined colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass H.R. 22, the Highway Bill Reauthorization/Export-Import Bank Reauthorization, by an overwhelmingly bipartisan 363-64 vote. On Tuesday, McGovern, the second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, led the floor debate for House Democrats on the measure and helped to defeat an amendment that would have allowed bigger and heavier trucks on the road. “Today’s passage of a bipartisan long-term highway bill is a victory for Americans across the country,” Congressman McGovern said. “So many of our nation’s roads and bridges are long-overdue for repair. With so many state budgets already stretched to the brink, this funding will provide a big boost to our economy by supporting good-paying construction jobs and giving governors and mayors the certainty they need for long-term infrastructure projects. “I am especially pleased that we were able to defeat an amendment that would have allowed heavier and bigger trucks on the road. Big trucks only pay a fraction of the true cost of the wear and tear they cause on our roads and bridges and big truck crashes kill nearly 4,000 people every year. Americans have said loud and clear that they don’t want bigger trucks and this is an important victory to keep drivers safe on the road” McGovern added. “I am proud to see Congress come together to pass this important bipartisan bill and look forward to seeing the positive impact it will have for Massachusetts and states across the country.” ###
11.05.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that Tom Colyer, owner of Greenwood Hill Farm in Hubbardston, Massachusetts, is among the newly appointed members of the 2016 Lamb Promotion, Research, and Information Board. Each appointee will serve 3-year terms. Colyer and his wife Andrea naturally raise Merino sheep and sell yarns, sheepskins, and meat from their farm. “Our local farmers are a vital part of our economy in Central and Western Massachusetts. I am so proud that Tom Colyer has been chosen by Secretary Vilsack to serve on this important board,” Congressman McGovern said. “This is an incredible opportunity to showcase the important work being done by our local farmers, both here in Massachusetts and across New England. By bringing together a diverse group of farmers from across the country, this Board will provide the resources needed to help this industry grow, and will give our local farmers additional tools to help them succeed.” “As a proud Massachusetts farmer who has worked to represent the Commonwealth’s sheep industry for more than two decades, I am honored by this appointment,” Colyer said. “I am a vocal supporter of buying local products, and I will continue to look for ways to help our region’s sheep farmers succeed as I serve in this new role.” Colyer has been Director of the American Sheep Industry Association, representing Massachusetts, for over 20 years. He has also served as a member of the Executive Board of the organization for two terms representing the six New England states as well as New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. In addition to Colyer, who will represent producers, the newly appointed Board Members include Gwendolyn Kitzan of South Dakota (also representing producers), Martin Auza of California (representing feeders), and Jeffrey D. Oatman of Colorado (representing first handlers). The board is composed of six producers, three feeders, one seedstock producer, and three first handlers. The Secretary of Agriculture appoints approximately one-third of all board members each year. In 1966, Congress authorized the formation of industry-funded research and promotion programs such as the Lamb Promotion, Research and Information Board. There are currently 22 such research and promotion boards across different specialties. These boards empower farmers and ranchers to leverage their own resources to develop new markets, strengthen existing markets, and conduct important research and promotional activities. The Agricultural Marketing Service provides oversight, paid for by industry assessments, which ensures fiscal responsibility, program efficiency, and fair treatment of participating stakeholders. ###
11.04.2015	Today, U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack met with Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and other members of the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity to discuss USDA’s efforts to address poverty in communities across the country. During the discussion, Secretary Vilsack and Members of the Task Force discussed a number of initiatives, including Secretary Vilsack’s Strike Force Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity to address the specific challenges associated with rural poverty, which has brought targeted assistance to rural communities in 21 states and Puerto Rico. They also discussed child nutrition programs, such as the National School Lunch Program, School Breakfast Program, Special Milk Program, Summer Food Service Program, and Child and Adult Care Food Program. “In Massachusetts and across the country, poverty is holding too many Americans back from achieving a better life for themselves and their children. To help our hardest-hit communities, states need strong federal partners,” Congressman McGovern said. “Today’s meeting with Secretary Vilsack provided a valuable update on the progress the USDA is making to reduce poverty and hunger and help our most vulnerable families. With programs like SNAP and summer meals, we are making a difference, but we need to strengthen our investments in these programs to ensure every community gets the help they need. Lifting more families our of poverty and helping them reach the middle class must be our top priority in Congress and I look forward to continuing this important work.” "I am encouraged by the fact that members of Congress understand that 85 percent of persistent poverty counties are rural, and the unique challenges that come with that," said Secretary Vilsack. "I appreciate the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty and Opportunity's recognition of the importance of anti-poverty strategies like USDA’s nutrition programs and StrikeForce Initiative for Rural Growth and Opportunity, as well as efforts like the White House Rural Council’s Rural Impact, to driving economic growth, upward mobility and self-sufficiency, particularly in remote rural communities. Congressional support for these strategies is critical, and I am pleased to call these Members of Congress strong partners in our efforts to grow the economy, create jobs, and provide opportunity for all Americans.” Launched in 2013, the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity works to raise the awareness of Members of Congress and the American people about the ongoing crisis of poverty, the positive human and economic impacts of effective poverty alleviation programs, and the need for a comprehensive national effort to eradicate poverty.The Task Force consults with key stakeholders and works closely with the Administration to develop support for strategies to eradicate poverty. ###
11.04.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that Jennifer (Walters) Chandler will serve as his new Chief of Staff. Chandler has worked for McGovern since 2007, most recently as Senior Legislative Assistant, handling his work on the House Agriculture Committee and House Hunger Caucus in addition to health care, transportation and labor. “Jennifer knows Massachusetts deeply and is passionate about serving the people of our district. Her skills and experience have helped us to lead our work to ensure more Massachusetts families have access to affordable health care and that those who struggle to put food on the table have access to essential assistance like SNAP and WIC benefits. I am so pleased she will be leading our team as Chief of Staff,” Congressman McGovern said. “I’m honored and excited to continue to serve on the great team Congressman McGovern has assembled. It’s a privilege to work for my hometown Congressman and I look forward to continuing to serve our district in this new role,” Chandler added. Chandler is originally from Sutton, Massachusetts and is the daughter of Bill and Barbara Walters of Grafton. She graduated from Sutton Memorial High School in 2001. She received her BA in Political Science from Providence College in 2005 and her MPP from American University in 2007. ###
11.03.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and the second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, led the floor debate for House Democrats on H.R. 22, the Highway Bill Reauthorization/Export-Import Bank Reauthorization. McGovern praised the investment the bill makes in the economy by funding much-needed repairs of roads and bridges across the country and supporting jobs in construction and manufacturing – industries that were hardest hit by the Great Recession. McGovern also urged the defeat of an amendment to allow bigger trucks on the road, citing close to 4,000 deaths every year in bigger truck crashes. Watch video of the speech here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech are below: “We need a long-term surface transportation authorization bill. States need to be able to count on federal funding for more than a month at a time. Large-scale infrastructure projects take years to complete. States need certainty and this bill is a step forward in that direction. “Our roads and bridges are already in need of massive repairs. I tell people all the time there are bridges in Massachusetts that are older than most of your states. “Not only will a long term highway bill help our economy but it will create and sustain thousands of American jobs particularly in the construction and manufacturing industries that were hardest hit by the Great Recession. On the Ribble amendment permitting states to allow bigger and heavier trucks on Interstate highways, McGovern said it would “seriously threaten this carefully crafted compromise bill.” “Despite what some in the trucking industry might have you believe, bigger trucks have never resulted in fewer trucks on our roads. Since 1982, when Congress last increased the gross vehicle weight limit, truck registrations have increased 90 percent. “Bigger truck crashes kill nearly 4,000 people every year and the reality is that most of those fatalities are those in passenger vehicles not the trucker. Big trucks only pay a fraction of the true cost of the wear and tear they cause on our roads and bridges. States budgets are stretched to the brink as it is and can’t afford to make up for the multi-billion dollar underpayments. “Loading this bill up with all kinds of exemptions to truck size and weight laws would be a huge mistake and would jeopardize passage of the underlying bill. I urge my colleagues to reject the Ribble amendment and any others to increase truck size and weights.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below. Watch video of the speech here. As Prepared For Delivery: “Today’s rule provides for consideration of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act – a six year highway bill. And after thirty-five short term extensions, this is a welcome step toward providing the kind of certainty our state and local officials need. “Of the 284 amendments submitted to the Rules Committee for consideration, this rule makes in order 29. We expect the Committee to meet later today to consider the remaining amendments. “I want to thank Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio and Subcommittee on Highways and Transit Chairman Sam Graves and Ranking Member Eleanor Holmes Norton for all of their hard work to get us to this point. “This isn’t the highway bill that I would have written but the bottom line is that we need a long-term surface transportation authorization bill. States need to be able to count on federal funding for more than a month at a time. Large-scale infrastructure projects take years to complete. States need certainty and this bill is a step forward in that direction. “Our roads and bridges are already in need of massive repairs. I tell people all the time there are bridges in Massachusetts that are older than most of your states. “The underlying bill provides $325 billion in contract authority from the Highway Trust Fund over six years for highway, transit, and safety programs. It would allow for automatic adjustments if more money comes into the Highway Trust Fund. “And I’m pleased to see that among the provisions in the bill is a reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, which is the same language the House passed with strong bipartisan support last week. We should vote against any amendment to jeopardize this provision. “Not only will a long term highway bill help our economy but it will create and sustain thousands of American jobs particularly in the construction and manufacturing industries that were hardest hit by the Great Recession. “But, in all candor, I can’t say I’m enamored with everything in this bill. I wish that it provided more robust funding levels. “I’m sorry to see that we’re continuing to use guarantee fees as a pay-for on an unrelated transportation bill. G-fees should be used to protect taxpayers from mortgage losses, not as an offset on a highway bill. “I also have serious concerns about the use of private debt collection as an offset in the bill. Instead of raising money, it is likely that the use of private debt collection agencies would result in the Federal government losing revenue. “Moving forward, I would strongly caution against loading this bill up with controversial provisions. This rule makes in order an amendment by Congressman Ribble of Wisconsin to permit states to allow bigger and heavier trucks on our Interstate highways and I understand that several other amendments have been offered to increase truck size and weights. I think passing these kinds of amendments is one of the most dangerous things we can do and I believe it would seriously threaten this carefully crafted compromise bill. “Despite what some in the trucking industry might have you believe, bigger trucks have never resulted in fewer trucks on our roads. Since 1982, when Congress last increased the gross vehicle weight limit, truck registrations have increased 90 percent. “Some say – if we allow bigger, heavier trucks on our federal Interstate highway system, we can alleviate their presence on local roads. That’s a false argument because trucks still need to make deliveries and pick-ups at warehouses and businesses and local roads are the way they get there. So all the Ribble amendment would do is make more of our roads less safe. “Bigger truck crashes kill nearly 4,000 people every year and the reality is that most of those fatalities are those in passenger vehicles not the trucker. “Big trucks only pay a fraction of the true cost of the wear and tear they cause on our roads and bridges. States budgets are stretched to the brink as it is and can’t afford to make up for the multi-billion dollar underpayments. “Americans have said loud and clear, over and over again, that they don’t want bigger trucks. A January 2015 nationwide survey by Harper Poll found that 76 percent of respondents oppose longer heavier trucks and a May 2013 public opinion poll by Lake Research Partners found that 68 percent of Americans opposed heavier trucks. “And, let me remind my colleagues, that in MAP-21, the most recent long-term highway bill, Congress directed the Department of Transportation to conduct a comprehensive study on truck size and weight laws. After two years of careful study, DOT concluded that the current data limitations were so profound that no changes in truck size and weight laws and regulations should be considered until these data limitations could be overcome. “Loading this bill up with all kinds of exemptions to truck size and weight laws would be a huge mistake and would jeopardize passage of the underlying bill. I urge my colleagues to reject the Ribble amendment and any others to increase truck size and weights.” ###
11.03.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and leading human rights champion as co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, spoke on the House floor about his recent trip to Honduras and the push to end corruption and impunity and strengthen human rights there. Watch video of the speech here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech are below: “The roots of corruption in Honduras are deep and long-standing. They encompass State actors, criminal networks, and powerful political and economic interests. But after a scandal revealed that government officials had stolen more than $350 million from the country’s social security fund which provides public health services as well as old age pensions, and that some of the money had gone to the electoral campaign of the president’s political party, there has been a huge public outcry demanding action to end widespread corruption. “Tens of thousands of Hondurans have marched in the streets over the past months calling for an international, independent commission to investigate corruption and impunity […] This unprecedented movement is led by young people, organized on social media, and called the “Indignados.” “Our delegation met with some of these young leaders. They are thoughtful, politically diverse, and united in their desire to see their country rid of corruption. They now face threats for what they are doing. I hope that the Honduran government is doing all it can to ensure their safety and their freedom of association, and not turning a blind eye to the threats targeting them and their families. “U.S. and international aid needs to be carefully calibrated to link assistance to progress on human rights and ending corruption, including a truly independent commission with the full power of investigation into corruption and impunity, and the ability to be part of the prosecution of those charged with such crimes.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below. Watch video of the speech here. As Prepared For Delivery: “In September, I visited Honduras as part of a delegation organized by the Washington Office on Latin America. Last month I spoke about the violence and extreme poverty that force families and young people to flee the country. Today, I want to focus on another urgent issue, namely how to confront the pervasive corruption in Honduras. “We heard about the problem of corruption everywhere: From the U.N., the President of Honduras and the U.S. Ambassador to community leaders and NGOs with expertise in justice and human rights. Everyone wanted to talk about the seemingly intractable problem of endemic corruption in Honduras. “The roots of corruption in Honduras are deep and long-standing. They encompass State actors, criminal networks, and powerful political and economic interests. But after a scandal revealed that government officials had stolen more than $350 million from the country’s social security fund which provides public health services as well as old age pensions, and that some of the money had gone to the electoral campaign of the president’s political party, there has been a huge public outcry demanding action to end widespread corruption. “Tens of thousands of Hondurans have marched in the streets over the past months calling for an international, independent commission to investigate corruption and impunity, based on the model of the CICIG in Guatemala, but tailored to Honduran reality. This unprecedented movement is led by young people, organized on social media, and called the “Indignados.” “Our delegation met with some of these young leaders. They are thoughtful, politically diverse, and united in their desire to see their country rid of corruption. They now face threats for what they are doing. I hope that the Honduran government is doing all it can to ensure their safety and their freedom of association, and not turning a blind eye to the threats targeting them and their families. “When we met with President Hernandez, he argued that he had taken significant steps to go after corrupt officials. I take the President seriously, and I look forward to seeing concrete results from the actions he has already announced. I also met with NGOs, including the Association of Judges for Democracy, that work on judicial, legal and transparency issues, who unanimously felt much more must be done. “At the height of the protest movement, President Hernandez called for a national dialogue on how to address the problem of corruption, asking the U.N. and the Organization of American States to help facilitate the process and develop a consensus about what needed to be done. “So I was disappointed to learn that the dialogue process wasn’t as inclusive as it could have been. The U.N. was sidelined, while the OAS carried out a quick series of discussions before developing a proposal for the President. Many were concerned not only that the OAS hadn’t consulted widely enough, but that its actions fell short of the thoughtful and impartial mediation needed to generate confidence in any forthcoming proposal. “On September 28th, the OAS presented its proposal to President Hernandez. After studying this proposal, I have concluded that it is woefully inadequate to addressing corruption and impunity and reforming the weak judicial institutions of Honduras. This is not just my opinion. Last week, on October 28th, a broad coalition of Honduran civil society, the Coalition Against Impunity, issued a statement declaring that the mission proposed by the OAS and the government is itself an obstacle to creating a genuine, independent commission that can truly tackle the rampant corruption and impunity in Honduras. Earlier, on October 4th, the “Indignados” issued a similar critique, pointing out the weaknesses of the OAS proposal to independently investigate crimes of corruption and ensure their prosecution. “It is clear from my discussions in Honduras and recent statements by Honduran civil society that any such commission must be wholly independent from the government – politically and financially; that it must have the mandate and staffing to initiate and carry out investigations of crimes of corruption and impunity, and the freedom to pursue those investigations wherever the evidence warrants. It must also have the mandate and the ability to work independently with State prosecutors and investigators to bring such crimes to justice. “Honduras doesn’t need one more round of judicial studies and technical assistance or a board of international mentors, as proposed by the OAS. Such a limited proposal not only lacks the broad support and confidence of Honduran civil society, but it also falls far short of what is required to break the culture of impunity in Honduras. “I hope the OAS proposal can be modified and strengthened, and its mandate expanded to establish an effective and truly independent mechanism that can fully investigate corruption and have a role in prosecutions; or an alternative advanced that can meet these requirements. “I hope that a new proposal includes close cooperation with the U.N. I further believe that U.S. and international aid needs to be carefully calibrated to link assistance to progress on human rights and ending corruption, including a truly independent commission with the full power of investigation into corruption and impunity, and the ability to be part of the prosecution of those charged with such crimes. ###
11.02.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that Massachusetts has received $6,697,404 in State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) funds to help small businesses access the capital they need to grow and create jobs. In Massachusetts, there are 615,775 small businesses and they support more than 1.4 million jobs. Massachusetts has deployed more than $15.8 million in SSBCI funds. Through 2014, business owners in the state reported that the program will help them create or retain 5,881 jobs. To date, $20,445,072 in SSBCI funds have been disbursed to the Massachusetts Executive Office of Housing and Economic Development to support small businesses and the local economy. “Supporting good jobs starts with investing in our local small businesses. With this grant, Massachusetts will have the resources it needs to continue that commitment to our local communities,” Congressman McGovern said. “In Central and Western Massachusetts, I’ve seen the difference that small businesses can make in creating good jobs, giving more families a path to the middle class, and helping to grow our local economy. I am proud to work with Treasury Secretary Lew as a strong partner for our small business owners and look forward to seeing all the economic activity this grant will help to generate for our families and communities in Massachusetts.” “Small businesses are the nation’s leading job creators, and the State Small Business Credit Initiative connects sources of capital to the small businesses that need it,” said Jeffrey Stout, Director of SSBCI. “The funds announced today will continue to support loans and investments in Massachusetts’ small businesses.” The Treasury Department has disbursed more than $1.2 billion in SSBCI funds to participating states, municipalities, and territories since the beginning of the program. Nationally, from 2011 to 2014, SSBCI funds spurred more than $6.4 billion in private sector lending and investments to small businesses. States have generated $7.36 in private sector lending and investments for every $1 of federal support. Business owners reported that these funds will help them retain or create more than 140,000 jobs. Currently, SSBCI is set to end in 2017, and states have already drawn down 93 percent of the funding. To build on the momentum of the program’s successes and capitalize on new working relationships among states, small business lenders, and investors, President Obama proposed an extension of SSBCI in his Fiscal Year 2016 Budget request with an additional $1.5 billion in funding. A new authorization of the SSBCI program will keep local economic development efforts strong and allow states to continue supporting small businesses, job creation, and greater levels of private lending and investments. For more information on SSBCI and Treasury’s other small business programs, please visit www.treasury.gov/smallbusiness. ###
10.30.2015	AMHERST, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) brought state and local leaders and advocacy organizations together for the first Food For Good Conference at UMass Amherst. The conference highlighted state and local anti-hunger efforts and was organized by a steering committee of anti-hunger leaders and service providers across the state. The goal of the conference was to cultivate ideas and new approaches to strengthen ongoing state and local anti-hunger efforts. “Hunger is something that touches so many families every day here in Massachusetts and across the country,” Congressman McGovern said. “Today’s conference was truly inspiring as we heard about all the incredible work people are doing across the Commonwealth and we challenged each other to think more creatively about new ways we can help families in each of our communities. “The good news is that hunger is solvable. We have the resources. We just need to muster the political will. That’s what today was about,” McGovern added. “Harnessing the power of our collective voice and resources, I know we can find more ways we can work together and come up with new ideas to help families put food on the table. Like helping to connect restaurants and colleges with food pantries and food banks so that unused food can go to families in need. With the passion and the energy that all of our leaders and advocates bring to the work they do, I know that we can dramatically reduce hunger here in Massachusetts.” Topics addressed today included food insecurity in Massachusetts and across the country as well as current statewide initiatives to address hunger and strengthen access to healthy food. Joining Congressman McGovern will be more than 200 advocates and leaders from the New England Dairy & Food Council; Greater Boston Food Bank; Boston Public Schools, the Massachusetts Departments of Public Health and Agricultural Resources; Worcester County Food Bank, the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, Food Research & Action Center (FRAC), Franklin Community Co-Op, Franklin Regional Council of Governments (FRCOG), Springfield Partners for Community Action, Pioneer Valley Planning Commission (PVPC), Project Bread, and other organizations. ###
10.30.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern, a senior House Democrat and leading voice in the push for stronger Congressional oversight of U.S. military engagement abroad, released the following statement today: “Today’s announcement by the White House is just the latest in a series of alarming signs that the U.S. war against ISIS will continue to accelerate in the absence of Congressional action. The deployment of U.S. special operations forces to Northern Syria is especially concerning because it comes just days after the Pentagon announced that they are considering sending combat forces into Iraq as well. “It has now been 15 months since President Obama first announced the beginning of U.S. military engagement with ISIS. We were told that combat troops would not be returning to fight in Iraq. Instead, in this conflict, we have seen an increase in U.S. troop levels to more than 3,500 servicemembers and spent more than $4.75 billion of taxpayer dollars on this war. “While it is clear that ISIS poses a significant threat to our national security and must be defeated, it is just as clear that Congress must take responsibility for this war by voting on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force. Congress cannot continue to shirk one of our most fundamental constitutional duties by funding this war without voting on an AUMF that provides a clear path forward. Sending troops into harm’s way is a decision that must be made by the American people through their elected representatives in Congress. “We need to ensure that our strategy embraces a more balanced and constructive approach that would significantly increase civilian security. A critical first step would be to call for a moratorium on all bombing by all parties, which would help to significantly stem the internal displacement of entire populations. This would also allow for the repair of some of the damage to Syrian homes and communities and ensure that international humanitarian aid would be able to reach populations under siege. “Our brave men and women in uniform and their families deserve a Congress with the courage to stand with them. By taking responsibility for this war and voting on a bill that embraces this constructive approach with a clear exit strategy, Congress can move us closer to achieving our strategic goals in the region while also providing much-needed relief to the Syrian people who have suffered throughout the conflict. “Americans need to know that their elected leaders, both in the White House and in Congress, have a clear plan to bring this conflict to a peaceful end before it becomes another endless war. This starts with Congress doing its job and voting on an AUMF.” ###
10.29.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement after Congressman Paul Ryan was elected Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives this morning. “Today, I want to thank John Boehner for his many years of public service. Even when we didn’t see eye to eye, I always respected his dedication and I am grateful for his commitment to the American people. “As we begin a new chapter, I want to congratulate Speaker Ryan as he takes this important job. I’ve known Paul Ryan for many years. He is a good friend and I wish him well. I appreciate his call to regular order where the opinions of all members of the House are valued and heard and I hope we move in that direction. “While I’m under no illusion that Speaker Ryan and I will agree on everything – we probably won’t agree on most things – I am hopeful that we can work together to find common ground and achieve the bipartisan solutions our country needs. This week’s bipartisan votes on the budget and Export Import Bank show that Congress can still get things done. That’s what the American people sent us here to do and I look forward to working with him and members of both parties to achieve that goal.” ###
10.29.2015	On Wednesday, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) voted with 265 other Democratic and Republican Members of Congress to pass H.R. 1314, a bipartisan budget agreement that creates jobs, protects seniors, affirms the full faith and credit of the United States and invests in our future. “Passing this bipartisan budget agreement is an important step to keep our economy growing and ensure all hardworking families in this country have the opportunity to succeed,” Congressman McGovern said. “When the American people elected us to serve in Congress, they expected us to do our job. For too long, House Republicans have allowed far-right members of their party to take our country to the brink, endangering our economy and putting our country’s most vulnerable families at risk. “The next step is to complete the appropriations process to keep the government open before funding runs out on December 11th. Americans simply can’t afford another Republican shutdown,” McGovern added. “Congress needs to ensure that every American family has the opportunity to succeed and I will be working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make sure this budget puts our country on the strong footing we need to make that a reality.” The bipartisan budget agreement enables crucial investments in America’s future after years of the damaging sequester – securing equal funding increases in defense and domestic initiatives over the next two years, and allowing for investments in such critical areas as education and R&D. Further, the bill takes immediate action to prevent a major increase in Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles for millions of seniors in 2016. The agreement also stops a drastic 20 percent cut in disability benefits in 2016, all while extending the solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance. Fending off the Republican threat of a first-ever U.S. default, this bill makes clear that the full faith and credit of the United States is non-negotiable and unbreakable with a clean debt limit suspension. Put simply, this bipartisan budget agreement provides greater economic certainty to businesses and families, and it is estimated that it will create an additional 340,000 jobs in 2016 alone – along with increased economic growth. ###
10.29.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the announcement that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will provide more than $3 billion in funding for energy assistance, including $133.3 million for Massachusetts. In 2014 alone, 183,009 households in Massachusetts received LIHEAP funding. This comes just days after McGovern joined a bipartisan group of lawmakers calling for the swift release of LIHEAP funding to give families in need access to critical assistance to heat their homes during cold winter months. “Every year, close to 200,000 Massachusetts families count on LIHEAP funding to help pay for their home heating costs, including many seniors who are already on a fixed income,” Congressman McGovern said. “Thanks to the swift release of this funding, this critical lifeline will be available to our families in need in communities across Massachusetts. I am grateful to HHS Secretary Burwell for heeding our call and to my fellow lawmakers for joining me in our bipartisan push to ensure our most vulnerable families and seniors can count on this aid as we face another cold winter.” The HHS Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program is a federal program that helps low-income individuals including many seniors, veterans and the disabled pay their energy bills. The program is available during winter and summer months. $3.35 billion in LIHEAP funding was released for fiscal year 2015. LIHEAP provided heating assistance to more than 6.6 million households and cooling assistance to more than 1 million households during fiscal year 2014. ###
10.29.2015	AMHERST, MA – Today, October 30th, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will lead the first Food For Good Conference at the UMass Amherst to highlight state and local anti-hunger efforts. The conference was organized by a steering committee of anti-hunger leaders and service providers across the state with the goal of cultivating ideas and new approaches to strengthen ongoing state and local anti-hunger efforts. “Every day, families across Massachusetts struggle with hunger. Thanks to the leadership of our strong partners at the state and local level, our communities are making progress to help more families put food on the table,” Congressman McGovern said. “With our first Food For Good Conference this week, we will bring leaders and advocates together to talk about what’s working and what we can do to help even more families in need. I look forward to a great conference and thank all who will join us this week.” The conference will start at 8:30 a.m. and address topics such as food insecurity in Massachusetts and across the country as well as current statewide initiatives to address hunger and access to healthy food. At 2:45 p.m., Congressman McGovern will give closing remarks. Joining Congressman McGovern will be more than 200 advocates and leaders from the New England Dairy & Food Council; Greater Boston Food Bank; Boston Public Schools, the Massachusetts Departments of Public Health and Agricultural Resources; Worcester County Food Bank, the Food Bank of Western Massachusetts, Food Research & Action Center (FRAC), Franklin Community Co-Op, Franklin Regional Council of Governments (FRCOG), Springfield Partners for Community Action, Pioneer Valley Planning Commission (PVPC), Project Bread, and other organizations. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and state and local leaders from: Massachusetts Department Public Health Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources Massachusetts Public Health Association Boston Public Schools The Greater Boston Food Bank New England Dairy & Food Council Worcester County Food Bank Western Massachusetts Food Bank Community Action (Amherst) Easthampton Food Pantry Franklin Regional Council of Governments Franklin Community Co-Op Northfield Council on Aging Project Bread Springfield Partners for Community Action WHAT: Food For Good Conference at UMass Amherst WHERE: UMass Amherst, Campus Center, Amherst WHEN: Today, October 30, 2015 at 8:30AM to 4:00PM For more information, please contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
10.28.2015	On the House Floor today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Chair of the Congressional Hunger Center, spoke about the American Academy of Pediatrics’ (AAP) recent announcement recommending that pediatricians treat hunger as a health issue and help connect families with community resources that will strengthen access to healthy food. AAP is a national organization representing 64,000 pediatricians across the country. Watch video of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech here. “One of the greatest health challenges facing our country right now is hunger. For far too long, we haven’t viewed hunger as a health issue. For our nation’s youngest and most vulnerable – our children – the negative effects of childhood hunger are pervasive and long lasting,” Congressman McGovern said on the House floor. “So last week, I was pleased to see the American Academy of Pediatrics release its newest policy statement, which for the first time, recommends that pediatricians screen all children for food insecurity. “Without our robust federal anti-hunger programs, there would no doubt be more hungry children in this country […] The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – or SNAP – is our nation’s premier anti-hunger program and helps millions of low-income families afford to purchase food every month. About half of all SNAP recipients are children. And our school breakfast and lunch programs, summer meals, and Child and Adult Food Care Program all provide nutritious meals to children. “And we can’t forget about the incredible work that our food banks, food pantries and other charities do to provide healthy food for low income children and their families,” McGovern added. “I commend the American Academy of Pediatrics for working to solve hunger as a health issue and addressing how it affects our country’s greatest resource – our children. I can think of no more compelling reason to end hunger now than for the health and well-being of America’s children. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below. Click here for video of today’s speech. As Prepared For Delivery: “One of the greatest health challenges facing our country right now is hunger. For far too long, we haven’t viewed hunger as a health issue. For our nation’s youngest and most vulnerable – our children – the negative effects of childhood hunger are pervasive and long lasting. “So last week, I was pleased to see the American Academy of Pediatrics release its newest policy statement, which for the first time, recommends that pediatricians screen all children for food insecurity. The new recommendations consist of two simple questions for pediatricians to ask parents of young children at their annual well visit to identify and address childhood hunger. “It also recommends that pediatricians become more familiar with our robust system of anti-hunger programs at the federal, state and local levels. When pediatricians know more about these anti-hunger programs and the resources they provide, they will be better prepared to help families in need. “Pediatricians are among the most respected – if not the most respected – voices on children’s issues and I hope that, with the AAP’s policy statement, more people will start paying attention to the devastating effects of childhood hunger on America’s future. “It is shameful that childhood hunger even exists in this country – the richest country in the world. That one in five children lives in a food insecure household. That 17.2 million households in this country struggle with food insecurity. That the only reliable, healthy meal some kids receive is the one they get through school breakfasts or lunches. That mothers and fathers are forced to skip meals so their children can have more to eat because the family simply can’t afford to put enough food on the table. “The harmful effects of hunger on children are well-documented. For example, Children who live in households that are food insecure, get sick more often, recover more slowly from illness, have poorer overall health and are hospitalized more frequently. Children and adolescents affected by food insecurity are more likely to be iron deficient, and preadolescent boys dealing with hunger issues have lower bone density. Early childhood malnutrition is also tied to conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease later in life. Lack of adequate healthy food can impair a child's ability to concentrate and perform well in school and is linked to higher levels of behavioral and emotional problems from preschool through adolescence. “And I’ve personally heard from pediatricians who see children in the emergency room come in for a common cold that’s become much worse because they don’t have enough to eat. Stories like these are heartbreaking. “We know that consistent access to adequate nutritious food is one of the best medicines for growing, thriving children. Children’s HealthWatch, a national network of pediatricians and child health professionals, found that, in comparison to children whose families were eligible but did not receive SNAP, young children whose families received SNAP were significantly less likely to be at risk of being underweight or experiencing developmental delays. “If Members of Congress aren’t swayed by the moral arguments for ending childhood hunger, they ought to be swayed by the economic ones. Ensuring that our kids have access to enough nutritious food saves money in the form of reduced health care costs and helps them become productive contributors to our economy later on in life. “Without our robust federal anti-hunger programs, there would no doubt be more hungry children in this country. “The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children – or WIC – provides nutritious food and support for children and mothers. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – or SNAP – is our nation’s premier anti-hunger program and helps millions of low-income families afford to purchase food every month. About half of all SNAP recipients are children. And our school breakfast and lunch programs, summer meals, and Child and Adult Food Care Program all provide nutritious meals to children in community, child-friendly settings. “And we can’t forget about the incredible work that our food banks, food pantries and other charities do to provide healthy food for low income children and their families. But despite the incredible work they do, charities can’t do it alone. The demand is simply too great. Charities need a strong federal partner to end hunger in this country. “For a while now, I have been urging the White House to convene a White House Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Hunger. We ought to bring anti-hunger groups, pediatricians, business leaders, farmers, non-profits, faith leaders, and government officials together to come up with a plan to end hunger in this country once and for all. “I can think of no more compelling reason to end hunger now than for the health and well-being of America’s children. “In closing, I commend the American Academy of Pediatrics for working to solve hunger as a health issue and addressing how it affects our country’s greatest resource – our children. “We can and should do more to end hunger now.” ###
10.26.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in the push for stronger Congressional oversight of U.S. military engagement abroad, released the following statement on news today that the Pentagon is considering greater U.S. military involvement in Iraq as part of the war against ISIS. “Today’s report that the Pentagon is considering embedding some U.S. troops with Iraqi forces as part of the war against ISIS – bringing American forces to the front lines – is extremely concerning. We have been repeatedly reassured that the U.S. would not have a combat role in the war against ISIS, but this suggests just the opposite. “This potential escalation is just the latest evidence that it is long past time for Congress to act. Our brave men and women in uniform are doing their duty. It’s time for members of Congress to do our duty by voting on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force that clearly defines the U.S. military campaign against ISIS before it becomes another endless war.” ###
10.26.2015	Earlier today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) joined Representatives Keith Ellison (D-MN), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), and 14 additional House lawmakers, sent a letter to President Obama requesting a full and independent investigation into the bombing of a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz, Afghanistan that killed 12 humanitarian workers and 10 patients. The letter states: “We are deeply disturbed by the news that U.S. airstrikes in Afghanistan destroyed the MSF trauma hospital in Kunduz...Under international law, hospitals in conflict zones are protected spaces. An independent investigation will help ensure future military engagements keep humanitarian heroes, like the MSF staff, safe.” “Cooperating with a thorough investigation conducted by the United Nations or other independent body would send an important message to the world that the United States is unequivocally committed to the transparency and accountability required to ensure such a catastrophic event does not happen again.” Additional signers of the letter include: Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA), Rep. John Conyers (D-MI), Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), and Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA). Full Text of Letter: October 26, 2015 President Barack Obama 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, We write to request a full and independent investigation to determine what led to the bombing of a Doctors Without Borders (MSF) hospital in Afghanistan. We appreciate your willingness to reach out directly to MSF to apologize and your call for a Pentagon investigation. We believe a civilian-led independent investigation is also necessary to ensure an impartial assessment and confidence in the findings of the investigation. We are deeply disturbed by the news that U.S. airstrikes in Afghanistan destroyed the MSF trauma hospital in Kunduz, killing 12 humanitarian aid workers and 10 of their patients lying in their beds, including three children. The repeated airstrikes on the hospital also injured 37 civilians, including 19 MSF staff members. Cooperating with a thorough investigation conducted by the United Nations or other independent body would send an important message to the world that the United States is unequivocally committed to the transparency and accountability required to ensure such a catastrophic event does not happen again. Under international law, hospitals in conflict zones are protected spaces. An independent investigation will help ensure future military engagements keep humanitarian heroes, like the MSF staff, safe. Your leadership and statements by our top military officials communicates the sentiment of many who are saddened by this tragedy: deep regret and a desire to ensure it never happens again. We look forward to working with you to ensure that the United States prioritizes protection of civilians in its conduct of military operations around the world. Sincerely, ###
10.23.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) called for the GOP Congress to immediately act to protect seniors and people with disabilities from significant increases in their 2016 Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles. McGovern is co-sponsoring H.R.3696, the Medicare Premium Fairness Act of 2015, a bill that would fix this problem by keeping Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles for all Medicare enrollees at the 2015 levels. “America’s seniors have contributed so much to our country and keeping health care affordable for them must be one of our top priorities,” Congressman McGovern said. “Time is running out to prevent drastic, disastrous Medicare premium and deductible increases for millions of seniors beginning on January 1. I am calling on Speaker Boehner to immediately bring up legislation to fix that.” “In Massachusetts alone, a total of 407,000 Medicare enrollees will be affected by this spike in the premium – including 229,000 who are low-income and whose premium increase will be paid by the state Medicaid program and 179,000 who will have to personally pay this dramatic increase in their premiums,” McGovern added. “In addition, our state government will have to pay more than $70 million for the premium increase for low-income seniors.” “Unless Congress acts, many seniors will find Medicare premiums and deductibles simply unaffordable next year. It would be unconscionable for Congress not to act immediately to ensure that health care remains affordable for all of America’s seniors,” McGovern concluded. Each year, the Medicare Part B premium is calculated to cover 25 percent of program costs, so when program costs rise so does the premium. However, there is also a “hold harmless” policy in existing law that ensures that most seniors do not see a decrease in their Social Security check if the Part B premium increase is projected to be greater than the Social Security COLA. On October 15, it was announced that there will be no Social Security COLA in 2016. As a result, the “hold harmless” policy will ensure that about 70 percent of America’s seniors will be protected from any increase in their 2016 Medicare premium. Unfortunately, the other 30 percent of Medicare beneficiaries are not held harmless, including such groups as new Medicare enrollees, beneficiaries whose Medicare premiums are not deducted from their Social Security checks, and higher-income beneficiaries. Because of the way the law is written, it is estimated that premiums for this 30 percent of Medicare enrollees will be disproportionately increased from $104.90 per month in 2015 to $159.30 per month in 2016, unless Congress acts. In addition, unless Congress acts, deductibles will also spike – and the deductible increase will be paid by all Medicare enrollees. Click here to view the projected impact of Medicare Part B Premium Increase for 2016. ###
10.23.2015	With just eleven days remaining before a November 3 deadline for Congress to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a government default, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn in calling for a clean extension of the debt ceiling. Click here to view the letter. “Congress will soon be faced with the question of raising the debt ceiling. The solvency of the federal government requires Congress to act in a timely fashion,” Congressman McGovern and House Democrats wrote in the letter. “Failing to do so will plunge the nation into default for the first time in American history, risking economic catastrophe. Raising the debt ceiling will ensure that America pays its bills for expenses already incurred, and does not authorize any new spending.” In addition to Congressman McGovern, 190 Democrats signed the letter – led by Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) – to House Speaker John Boehner which demands a vote on a clean extension of the debt ceiling so that America continues to pay its bills. The letter reiterates that doing so will not authorize any new federal spending. Click here to view the letter online. The text of the letter is below: October 23, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House United States House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker, Congress will soon be faced with the question of raising the debt ceiling. The solvency of the federal government requires Congress to act in a timely fashion. Failing to do so will plunge the nation into default for the first time in American history, risking economic catastrophe. Raising the debt ceiling will ensure that America pays its bills for expenses already incurred, and does not authorize any new spending. When the House takes up this issue, we will support a clean extension of the debt ceiling which will allow America to continue to pay its bills as they come due. We categorically reject the view that it would be acceptable for America to default if unrelated demands are not met. As you will recall, when this irresponsible tactic was employed in 2011, it cost the American taxpayer $19 billion in higher interest costs. Sincerely, ###
10.22.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the new efforts announced by President Obama to address the opioid crisis that is affecting families in Massachusetts and states around the country. President Obama’s announcement came on the same day the Massachusetts Department of Public Health announced new data that shows the opioid overdose epidemic in Massachusetts continues without interruption in the first half of 2015. “Taking a comprehensive approach to fighting the opioid epidemic is essential and the new efforts announced by President Obama are a strong step,” Congressman McGovern said. “Every day, Massachusetts families are seeing the devastating impact the opioid crisis is having on our communities and the data released this week shows that it has only gotten worse. Prevention and treatment must be at the heart of our approach. I am glad to see that these are front and center in the new efforts announced by the president and I am grateful to have him as a strong partner in helping us to end the opioid epidemic once and for all.” In President Obama’s visit to Charleston, West Virginia yesterday, he announced new federal efforts to address prescription drug and heroin addiction. Preliminary data released in Massachusetts show a troubling 63 percent increase in opioid overdose deaths in 2014 (1,089) compared with 2012 (668). President Obama issued a Memorandum to Federal Departments and Agencies directing two important steps to combat the prescription drug abuse and heroin epidemic: Prescriber Training: First, to help ensure that health care professionals who prescribe opioids are properly trained in opioid prescribing and to establish the Federal Government as a model, the Presidential Memorandum requires Federal Departments and Agencies to provide training on the prescribing of these medications to Federal health care professionals who prescribe controlled substances as part of their Federal responsibilities. Improving Access to Treatment: Second, to improve access to treatment for prescription drug abuse and heroin use, the Presidential Memorandum directs Federal Departments and Agencies that directly provide, contract to provide, reimburse for, or otherwise facilitate access to health benefits, to conduct a review to identify barriers to medication-assisted treatment for opioid use disorders and develop action plans to address these barriers. Click here to read more about the new efforts announced by President Obama to help fight the opioid epidemic impacting Massachusetts families. ###
10.22.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that $1.03 million has been awarded to the Family Health Center of Worcester and the University of Massachusetts Medical School by the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) to provide core medical and support services to people living with HIV. The mission of the grant is to help local organizations provide comprehensive primary health care in outpatient settings to people living with HIV disease. “In the last 25 years, the U.S. has significantly increased resources for HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and research. With today’s grants to the Family Health Center of Worcester and UMass Medical School, we are continuing that important work,” Congressman McGovern said. “This funding will make a tremendous difference for Massachusetts families impacted by HIV by providing the comprehensive health care and support they need. I am grateful to HHS Secretary Burwell for making this investment in our community and recognizing the Family Health Center of Worcester and UMass Medical School as leaders in health care helping Massachusetts families every day.” “Family Health Center of Worcester’s Ryan White funded program supports the intensive medical case management team that makes our HIV program a success”, said Dr. Philip Bolduc, medical director of Family Health Center of Worcester’s HIV program. “Despite serving a patient population with significant substance abuse, mental health, and poverty-related challenges, 81 percent of our patients diagnosed with HIV are retained in care, on antiretroviral medications, and virally suppressed, far exceeding the national rate of 38% as reported by the Centers for Disease Control.” The Family Health Center of Worcester (FHCW) will receive $541,951 and the University of Massachusetts Medical School will receive $483,959. The funding is part of more than $2.2 billion in Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program grants awarded in fiscal year (FY) 2015 to cities, states and local community-based organizations. This funding supports a coordinated and comprehensive system of care to ensure that more than half a million people living with and affected by HIV in the United States continue to have access to critical HIV health care, support services, and essential medications. Click here to learn more about FHCW’s work through this program. For a full list of the FY 2015 Part C EIS awarded grants, visit http://1.usa.gov/1ZYqaSJ. For a list of the Part C Capacity Development award recipients, visit http://1.usa.gov/1hUC5ih. Grant awards in FY 2015 also support cities, states, and communities to achieve the goals of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy: Updated to 2020, which was released in summer 2015. These include efforts to reduce new HIV infections, increase access to HIV care and improve health outcomes for people living with HIV infection, and reduce HIV-related disparities and health inequities. In addition, the updated Strategy cites the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program as a critical source of lifesaving care and treatment for those living with HIV. To learn more about the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, visit hab.hrsa.gov. For more information about HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, treatment, and research, visit AIDS.gov. ###
10.22.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Chair of the Congressional Hunger Center (CHC), released the following statement honoring the service of Ed Cooney, who served as Executive Director of the CHC since February 2001 and is now retiring. “Ed has served as executive director of the Congressional Hunger Center for over a decade – 14 years. I know many would agree that Ed has been an incredible teacher. We have all learned a lot from Ed. He is a leading expert on policies related to ending hunger. He knows every line of every bill. Every speech at every conference. Throughout his tireless service, Ed has been an incredible resource for all of us. “Before Ed served at the Congressional Hunger Center, he held two senior positions at the United States Department of Agriculture as Deputy Administrator for Special Nutrition Programs and Special Assistant for Nutrition to USDA Secretary Dan Glickman. Throughout his career, Ed has worked with allied groups on every major children nutrition and Food Stamp (SNAP) bill since 1977. His viewpoint on nutrition program and policy issues is sought by key Congressional staff, the Executive branch of government and national anti-hunger organizations. “But what makes Ed so effective is his passion. Knowing an issue is one thing, but being able to share why that issue is so important to you is vitally important to mobilizing others and making the real difference we all strive for. “I’ve worked with Ed for many years now and I know that his heart aches when he sees that there are still children and families who are hungry in this country and across the world. “Ed fights hard for some of the most vulnerable populations and I am so proud to call him my partner, my colleague, and my friend. Ed, you have made a lasting impact in the fight to end hunger and I know I speak for so many others when I say we are so grateful for all of your incredible work.” ###
10.21.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) was joined by Representatives Peter Welch (D-VT), Alma S. Adams (D-NC), and Lou Barletta (R-PA), along with 71 other Members of Congress in sending a letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell to urge for the swift release of Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding. Releasing the funding will allow families in need to access critical resources to heat their homes during cold winter months. Click here to read the letter. Following the record-setting winter Massachusetts experienced earlier this year, ensuring that every family in need has access to LIHEAP funds is a major priority for Congressman McGovern. “Hundreds of thousands of Massachusetts families, including many seniors who are on a fixed income, rely on LIHEAP funding to help pay for their home heating costs,” Congressman McGovern said. “With these heating costs becoming a larger and larger share of many families’ budgets, this is a critical lifeline that we must protect. Temperatures are already dropping in many parts of the country and after last year’s record-setting winter in Massachusetts, we must do everything we can to prepare for this winter. Our most vulnerable families and seniors need access to LIHEAP funds and we urge you to release them as soon as possible.” “As another Vermont winter grows near, federal officials should release LIHEAP funding now so that Vermonters who depend on it to stay warm are assured it will be there when they need it,” said Rep. Welch. “In addition, we should redouble our efforts to fully fund this vital safety net program in the federal budget.” “More than 120,000 North Carolinians rely on critical home heating assistance to keep warm during the winter,” said Rep. Adams. “This funding is particularly important for many low-income households, children, seniors and veterans who are struggling to pay their bills. With winter fast approaching and temperatures quickly dropping, I urge HHS to release this funding so that our families are not left out in the cold.” “As the winter months approach us, too many people in my district will have to make the impossible choice between paying for food or keeping warm,” said Rep. Barletta. “That just isn’t acceptable in America. Time is already running short, as the cold weather has already begun in many places, so these funds should be released as soon as possible to protect people among us, particularly seniors and veterans, who depend on it for their very safety.” The HHS Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program is a federal program that helps low-income individuals including many seniors, veterans and the disabled pay their energy bills. The program is available during winter and summer months. $3.35 billion in LIHEAP funding was released for fiscal year 2015. LIHEAP provided heating assistance to more than 6.6 million households and cooling assistance to more than 1 million households during fiscal year 2014. In addition to Reps. McGovern, Welch (D-VT), Adams (D-NC), and Barletta (R-PA), the letter was signed by Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Richard Hanna (R-NY), Joseph P. Kennedy (D-MA), Chris Gibson (R-NY), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Glenn Thompson (R-PA) Dan Benishek (R-MI), Luis Gutiérrez (D-IL), Terri Sewell (D-AL), John Yarmuth (D-KY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Michael Capuano (D-MA), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Joyce Beatty (D-OH), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), John Lewis (D-GA), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Judy Chu (D-CA), John Larson (D-CT), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Richard E. Neal (D-MA), William R. Keating (D-MA), John Carney (D-DE), Tim Walz (D-MN), Dan Lipinski (D-IL), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), André Carson (D-IN), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Sandy Levin (D-MI), Paul D. Tonko (D-NY), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ron Kind (D-WI), Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), and Ted Lieu (D-CA). ###
10.21.2015	Today on the House Floor, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and leading champion of anti-hunger efforts, spoke about Community Voices, a summer-long national campaign launched by the Center for American Progress, the Coalition on Human Needs, Witnesses to Hunger, the Food Research and Action Center, Feeding America and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. McGovern praised the work of Community Voices (including the Massachusetts Coalition for the Homeless) to amplify the stories of real families helped by SNAP, WIC, and other anti-hunger programs. Click here to watch video of today’s speech. “All too often, the discussion around SNAP and our other anti-hunger programs is punctuated by misinformation, false stereotypes or downright nasty rhetoric. It’s frustrating and it’s wrong. “Community Voices reminds us what a positive difference these programs make for families who are really struggling. “Every Member of Congress should have received a Community Voices booklet. It’s a call to action to protect our vital federal nutrition assistance programs. I encourage you to read the stories about how these programs are helping the families who need them most. Without them, hunger would be much worse. “And I urge you to keep their stories in mind the next time proposals come before Congress to cut funding for WIC or restrict access to SNAP or make it more difficult for children to get healthy meals in school. Harmful changes like these would hurt real families who are already struggling. We shouldn’t make their lives more difficult. We shouldn’t be making hunger worse in this country. Click here to watch the video of today’s speech. NUMBERS In 2014 alone, SNAP lifted 4.7 million people out of poverty, including 2.1 million children. 92 percent of benefits go to households with incomes below the poverty line. Federal investment in our nutrition programs is one of the smartest investments we can make. For every $1 spent on preventive services for a pregnant woman in WIC, the program saves $4.21 in Medicaid costs by reducing the risk of pre-term birth and associated costs. STORIES OF REAL FAMILIES Today, McGovern also shared stories of real families helped by SNAP and other anti-hunger programs: Linda from the Massachusetts Coalition for the Homeless: “Several years ago, I volunteered at a summer program at a park in Morgantown, Kentucky, assisting with skill-building activities. Without this nutrition program, the kids who came would not have had lunch, since school was not in session. “If the kids didn’t come to that park for nutritional food, I’m not sure they would have gotten it anywhere else. None of the food was wasted, and if there was any food leftover, the kids would take it back to their families. “Food is a basic human right, and our government sometimes forgets that and needs to be reminded. This is a moral imperative for our country to make sure that all people, especially children, have the resources needed to develop – even more so for families and children in poverty.” Jonetta from Sacramento, California: “Several years ago, I left an abusive relationship, and now I am raising my daughter by myself. My daughter participates in the school meal program and the after-school snack program. The snack program really helps so that my daughter isn’t as hungry when she gets home from school. We also receive $356 a month in SNAP. “This money is supposed to supplement my food budget, but it is really all of my food budget because my income barely covers my rent. Right now, I’m homeless, and it’s hard to find a place to live for less than $500 a month. Because of SNAP, we are not starving. “As a mom, I try to cut out a lot of bad food from my family’s diet, but it is a difficult task to buy the healthier food because it is expensive. It’s also very difficult because we have been homeless for a couple months so I have to use other people’s refrigerators. I am very thankful for these programs and to all the people who are trying to make these programs better. They really help me and my daughter.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. As Prepared for Delivery: “I recently had the pleasure of speaking with a group of people involved with “Community Voices: Why Nutrition Assistance Matters.” It was inspiring to hear about the real and positive impact our federal nutrition programs have in the daily lives of Americans all across this country. “Community Voices is a summer-long national campaign launched by the Center for American Progress, the Coalition on Human Needs, Witnesses to Hunger, the Food Research and Action Center, Feeding America and the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. “It was started to share the personal stories of individuals and service providers who experienced firsthand programs like SNAP or WIC or school meals. These contributors are the real experts when it comes to the importance and effect of our vital nutrition assistance programs. “The Community Voices campaign culminated in this booklet – a compilation of many of these personal stories. “I’d like to take a moment and share a few of these stories. Jonetta from Sacramento, California says: ‘Several years ago, I left an abusive relationship, and now I am raising my daughter by myself. My daughter participates in the school meal program and the after-school snack program. The snack program really helps so that my daughter isn’t as hungry when she gets home from school. We also receive $356 a month in SNAP. ‘This money is supposed to supplement my food budget, but it is really all of my food budget because my income barely covers my rent. Right now, I’m homeless, and it’s hard to find a place to live for less than $500 a month. Because of SNAP, we are not starving. As a mom, I try to cut out a lot of bad food from my family’s diet, but it is a difficult task to buy the healthier food because it is expensive. It’s also very difficult because we have been homeless for a couple months so I have to use other people’s refrigerators. ‘I am very thankful for these programs and to all the people who are trying to make these programs better. They really help me and my daughter.’ And let me share another story from Linda from the Massachusetts Coalition for the Homeless: ‘Several years ago, I volunteered at a summer program at a park in Morgantown, Kentucky, assisting with skill-building activities. Without this nutrition program, the kids who came would not have had lunch, since school was not in session. ‘If the kids didn’t come to that park for nutritional food, I’m not sure they would have gotten it anywhere else. None of the food was wasted, and if there was any food leftover, the kids would take it back to their families. ‘Food is a basic human right, and our government sometimes forgets that and needs to be reminded. This is a moral imperative for our country to make sure that all people, especially children, have the resources needed to develop – even more so for families and children in poverty.’ “I want to thank Jonetta, Linda and all of those who took the time to share their stories. They remind us that these programs are helping real families who are trying to do their best in tough times. “All too often, the discussion around SNAP and our other anti-hunger programs is punctuated by misinformation, false stereotypes or downright nasty rhetoric. It’s frustrating and it’s wrong. “Community Voices reminds us what a positive difference these programs make for families who are really struggling. “And the data backs up just how important these programs are. In 2014 alone, for example, SNAP lifted 4.7 million people out of poverty, including 2.1 million children. Ninety-two percent of benefits go to households with incomes below the poverty line, which includes millions of struggling families working hard every day to put food on the table. “And, federal investment in our nutrition programs is one of the smartest investments we can make. For example, for every $1 spent on preventive services for a pregnant woman in WIC, the program saves $4.21 in Medicaid costs by reducing the risk of pre-term birth and associated costs. “I have long believed that we need to hear firsthand from the people who are directly touched by SNAP or WIC or school meals. They are the real experts and can guide us as Members of Congress as we work to strengthen and improve these programs. “Every Member of Congress should have received a Community Voices booklet. It’s a call to action to protect our vital federal nutrition assistance programs. I encourage you to read the stories about how these programs are helping the families who need them most. Without them, hunger would be much worse. “And I urge you to keep their stories in mind the next time proposals come before Congress to cut funding for WIC or restrict access to SNAP or make it more difficult for children to get healthy meals in school. Harmful changes like these would hurt real families who are already struggling. We shouldn’t make their lives more difficult. We shouldn’t be making hunger worse in this country. “We can and should do more to End Hunger Now.” ###
10.16.2015	Today, October 16 at 9:00 a.m., Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will launch his first-ever district-wide “Marketing the Heart of the Commonwealth” bus tour to help highlight Central and Western Massachusetts businesses, farms, outdoor destinations, and other attractions. Bus Route: Click here for Morning Tour. Click here for Afternoon Tour. “With millions of visitors coming to Massachusetts every year, travel and tourism is a vital part of our economy. On today’s bus tour, we’re highlighting some of the great destinations we have to offer here in Central and Western Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “With so many strong partners at the state and local level, I’m proud to continue our work with business leaders throughout the region today to help grow our economy and bring more tourism dollars to our communities right here in Central and Western Massachusetts.” With 18 million visitors every year pumping $13.5 billion into the Massachusetts economy, travel and tourism is a huge economic driver for the state and Congressman McGovern is launching this one-day bus tour to explore new ways to help bring those dollars to local businesses in the district. TODAY’S BUS TOUR SCHEDULE: 9:00AM – 9:30AM – Worcester Airport (Door 4 in front) in Worcester 10:05AM – 10:15AM – Davidian Farm, 500 Church Street, Northborough 10:25AM – 10:45AM – Tower Hill Botanical, 11 French Drive, Boylston 11:05AM – 11:35AM – Davis Farmland, 145 Redstone Hill, Sterling 12:15PM – 1:00PM – Carter & Stevens Farm, 500 West Street, Barre 2:00PM – 2:30PM – Historic Deerfield, 84B Old Main Street, Deerfield 3:00PM – 3:30PM – Tunnel Bar, 125A Pleasant St. (Main Entrance), Northampton 3:45PM – 4:15PM – Eric Carle Museum, 125 W Bay Road, Amherst 4:35PM – 4:45PM – Quabbin Visitors Center, 485 Ware Road, Belchertown 5:20PM – 6:20PM – The Red Maple Inn, 217 Main Street, Spencer 6:35PM Return to Worcester Airport in Worcester JOINING CONGRESSMAN MCGOVERN ON THE BUS TOUR: Tom Glynn, CEO of Massport Commissioner Carol Sanchez, MA Dept. of Conservation and Recreation Mark Preston, Tripadvisor Northeast Sales Manager Mary McGuire, AAA Director of Public and Legislative Affairs Michael Quinlin, Director, Commonwealth Marketing Office Roy Nascimento, President, North Central Chamber of Commerce & Johnny Appleseed Region Suzanne Beck, Exec. Director, Greater Northampton Chamber of Commerce Susan Nicholl, Exec. Director, MetroWest Visitors Bureau Christina Andreoli, VP of Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce Seth Stratton, VP and General Counsel, MGM Springfield Ann Hamilton, President of the Franklin County Chamber of Commerce Mark Wright, Executive Director, North Quabbin Chamber For more info, contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
10.16.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ranking Member of the Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Nutrition, and Democratic Co-Chair of the House Hunger Caucus and the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement in recognition of World Food Day. Established to commemorate the founding of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in 1945, World Food Day also serves as a time to bring attention to global development and humanitarian programs that fight hunger, malnutrition, and extreme poverty. “With the advances of today’s global agriculture, there is no excuse for the world hunger we currently see. Whether in the U.S. or anywhere else in the world, no child or family should have to wonder where their next meal will come from. “Unfortunately, tens of millions of individuals in America and hundreds of millions across the globe face that challenge every day. In America alone, 48.1 million individuals suffer from food insecurity, including 15.3 million children. Globally, 805 million people feel the effects of hunger day in and day out. This is unacceptable. We, as a nation and as a global population, need to acknowledge that the right to adequate food is a basic human right. Solving hunger must be a shared goal. In the U.S., we need to strengthen our investment in SNAP and other anti-hunger programs, and continue to work with a broad coalition of anti-hunger organizations. Globally, we need to work with our international partners, the business community, NGOs and universities to effectively combat, and eventually end, hunger across the world. “Together we are making progress in fighting hunger as the world is beginning to meet anti-hunger goals. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals include the goal of ending hunger by 2030. Solving hunger is possible in our lifetime and I am proud to support this ambitious goal. “I will continue to fight against hunger to ensure that everyone in the U.S. and around the world has access to the basic human right of adequate food and food security. On this World Food Day, I urge my fellow members of Congress to join me in this fight to end hunger now.”
10.15.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and leading voice in the push for stronger Congressional oversight of U.S. military engagement, released the following statement on today’s announcement by President Obama on Afghanistan. “Today, the longest war in American history just got longer. I am extremely troubled by President Obama’s announcement that the U.S. will abandon our planned military withdrawal from Afghanistan by the end of 2016 and instead will keep nearly ten thousand troops in the country through at least 2016. “Our mission in Afghanistan lacks the clarity that the American people and our brave men and women in uniform deserve. I am disappointed that after 14 years of war, we are talking about continuing our military presence there instead of finding the political solution that is so desperately needed. “Every American life lost in this war is a tragic reminder that it is long past time for Congress to act. We must take responsibility for this conflict and vote on an Authorization for the Use of Military Force that clearly defines the current mission and ensures that there is a clear strategy for withdrawal. We cannot wait any longer.” ###
10.15.2015	WEBSTER, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined community leaders in Webster to highlight the breakfast program at Park Avenue Elementary School, the Reach Out and Read program at South County Pediatrics, and how they are helping local students and families. Congressman McGovern joined Principal Carolyn Wallace for a tour of Park Avenue Elementary School and a discussion of the school’s breakfast program, aimed at helping to reduce hunger by ensuring that every student has access to a healthy breakfast. “Every year, millions of American children are impacted by hunger. Thanks to great meal programs like the breakfast program at Park Avenue Elementary School, we are making progress in the push to reduce childhood hunger,” Congressman McGovern said. “By providing a healthy breakfast to those in need, we can help more students start the day strong and get the nutrients they need to succeed in school. I am grateful to Principal Wallace and everyone in Webster for their work to support this program.” At South County Pediatrics, Congressman McGovern read to local children ages 5-years-old and younger as part of the Reach Out and Read program, aimed at helping America's youngest children succeed in school by partnering with doctors to prescribe books and encourage families to read together. “Reading to children at an early age is essential to giving them the strong start they need to succeed. All across the country, Reach Out and Read is helping to make that possible, inspiring children to develop a love of reading that will help them achieve their full potential,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to South County Pediatrics in Webster and partners throughout Massachusetts who are helping to prepare our students for a bright future with this important program.” Congressman McGovern read “Five Little Monkeys Jumping on the Bed" to the children and then gave books (provided by Reach Out and Read) to themto take home and keep. Joining McGovern and local students were Dr. Jennifer Bram, Reach Out and Read Medical Consultant at South County Pediatrics and Alison Corning-Clarke, Director, Reach Out and Read Massachusetts. Background on Reach Out and Read In the Massachusetts 2nd Congressional District, there are 53 clinical locations and 32,000 children participate annually. Doctors, nurse practitioners, and other medical professionals incorporate Reach Out and Read's evidence-based model into regular pediatric checkups, by advising parents about the importance of reading aloud and giving developmentally-appropriate books to children. The program begins at the 6-month checkup and continues through age 5, with a special emphasis on children growing up in low-income communities. Families served by the Reach Out and Read program read together more often, and their children enter kindergarten with larger vocabularies and stronger language skills, better prepared to achieve their potential. Reach Out and Read's National Impact Reach Out and Read Programs are located in nearly 5,000 hospitals, health centers, and pediatric clinics in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Reach Out and Read serves 4 million children and families annually. More than 6.5 million new, developmentally-appropriate books are given to children annually; More than 20,000 doctors and nurses currently participate in Reach Out and Read; Community volunteers dedicate more than 350,000 hours of service to Reach Out and Read annually. Reach Out and Read's State Impact 302 clinical locations 196,812 children participate annually 339,218 new books distributed annually ###
10.13.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) visited 20 Franklin Street for a lunch and discussion with downtown entrepreneurs and startups. Local entrepreneurs include alumni from Worcester State University, Becker College and Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Companies in attendance included ten24 Digital Solutions which relocated its headquarters from Northborough to downtown Worcester, Origin Consulting, Bluefin Technologies, Worcester Sun, Petricore, Inc. and other community organizations such as Action! Worcester. The Worcester Business Development Corporation (WBDC) redeveloped 20 Franklin Street to support Worcester’s entrepreneurial ecosystem by providing low cost event and collaboration space on the 1st floor as well as affordable start-up office space on the 4th floor. “Our small businesses and entrepreneurs are at the heart of a strong and growing economy in Worcester and across Massachusetts. Helping our local startups succeed is key to revitalizing downtown Worcester,” Congressman McGovern said. “Today’s event was a great opportunity to meet with the many entrepreneurs who are on the frontlines of this effort and I am proud to work with the Worcester Business Development Corporation and local leaders to ensure that our community continues to support small businesses and help to create good-paying jobs for Worcester families.” Today’s lunch gave the entrepreneurs an opportunity to speak with the Congressman about their businesses and their hopes for the future of downtown Worcester. ###
10.08.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Congressman Richard E. Neal (MA-01) announced a $100,000 Rural Opioid Overdose Reversal (ROOR) Grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to help rural Massachusetts coalitions to prevent opioid overdose deaths. The grant will support efforts led by the North Quabbin Community Coalition, Northern Berkshire Community Coalition and the Opioid Task Force of Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region in partnership with Baystate Franklin Medical Center. Collectively called the “Northwest Opioid Overdose Reversal Project,” this project is the only awardee in Massachusetts and one of just 18 nationwide. This grant program supports the purchase and placement of naloxone (a drug that reverses signs of a drug overdose), and training for its use by licensed healthcare professionals and community members in rural areas. The grant will also support efforts to develop, strengthen and formalize policies and partnerships that increase awareness and implementation of overdose education and the use of naloxone as well as referrals to treatment for someone with an opioid use disorder. “In Massachusetts, our families and communities are feeling the effects of the opioid crisis every day. Working together with leaders at the local, state, and federal level, we are making progress and I know this grant will help us build on those efforts,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “With this investment in our rural communities, the North Quabbin Community Coalition and the Opioid Task Force of Franklin County will have the resources they need to help those suffering from opioid addiction. We must do all we can to ensure that treatment is available to those who seek it. I am proud to have strong partners like Congressman Neal as we continue the work to end this crisis. “ “In 2014, more than 1,000 people died from heroin and prescription drug overdoses in Massachusetts alone. And according to news reports, overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death in the United States, accounting for more deaths than traffic fatalities, gun homicides and suicides. It is clear that this is a national problem that has reached epidemic proportions. That is why I welcome today’s federal grant to help fight the opioid crisis here at home. We need to use every resource available to fight this scourge that has touched families all across America,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. "The impact of the opioid crisis on our rural region, from North Adams to Athol, has been felt in every corner of our communities,” noted Opioid Task Force Director Marisa Hebble. “This funding is so important for getting naloxone into the hands of healthcare providers and community members who need it the most. This collaborative project will save lives and help to facilitate important connections to help our neighbors, loved ones and community members in need." Working together, the Massachusetts Congressional delegation has been raising the voices of Massachusetts families impacted by this crisis. Congressman McGovern is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Prescription Drug Abuse and has been a strong voice in the call for federal funding to combat the opioid and heroin abuse epidemic. Congressman Neal is the original co-sponsor of the Opioid Overdose Reduction Act of 2015 that addresses America’s growing Heroin and prescription drug epidemic. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the effects of prescription opioid abuse are more prominent in rural communities. In 2013, drug overdose rates for deaths involving prescription opioids were higher in rural counties compared to urban counties. Over the first 9 months of 2014 the NOOR partners saw an overdose death rate of 18.5 per 100,000, much larger than the state’s estimated annual death rate. For more information please contact your local coalition: North Quabbin Community Coalition Heather Bialecki-Canning, Executive Director (978)249-3703 nqcc.org Northern Berkshire Community Coalition Wendy Penner, Director of Prevention Programs (413)663-7588 nbccoalition.org Opioid Task Force of Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region Marisa Hebble, Director (413)834-3161 opioidtaskforce.org ###
10.07.2015	At today’s House Agriculture Committee hearing on the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for America report, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) – a senior House Democrat and Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee – pushed back on criticism from House Republicans. “At the end of the day, healthier people mean lower healthcare costs and stronger communities. So it is extremely disappointing that Republicans on this committee want to play politics with these dietary guidelines,” Congressman McGovern said. “These guidelines help to create a roadmap for supporting healthy food for kids in school and families in need as well as helping to prevent diet-related health conditions, like obesity, diabetes and heart disease. “With nearly 1 in 3 of America’s school-age children and adolescents overweight or obese and more than 1 in 3 American adults suffering from cardiovascular disease and diabetes, Congress should not be turning these dietary guidelines into a political football,” McGovern added. “Some of the biggest critics of these guidelines are from industries that produce the least healthy foods. The reality is that if we all improved our diets, we’d live longer, more productive lives and we’d see our health care spending go down significantly on a number of chronic and preventable diseases. I urge my colleagues to focus on the facts and support the strong process led by USDA and HHS as we move forward with these guidelines.” Background The U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services are preparing to release the 2015 edition of the Dietary Guidelines and while the guidelines have yet to be finalized, they will be similar in many key respects to those of past years. Fruits and vegetables, low-fat dairy, whole grains and lean meats and other proteins, and limited amounts of saturated fats, added sugars and sodium remain the building blocks of a healthy lifestyle. These guidelines were created with input by nutrition and medical experts and practitioners—the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee—as well as comments from the public, and thousands of scientific papers. HHS and USDA required the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee to conduct a rigorous, systematic and transparent review of the current body of nutrition science. Following an open process over 19 months, documented for the public on DietaryGuidelines.gov, the external expert committee submitted its report to the Secretaries of HHS and USDA. HHS and USDA are considering the Scientific Report of the 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee, along with comments from the public and input from federal agencies, as they develop the 2015 Dietary Guidelines for Americans to be released later this year. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s opening statement at today’s hearing is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “I want to thank Secretary Vilsack and Secretary Burwell for being with us today and for both of your respective agencies’ work on the Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee’s report. I know it’s no simple undertaking and requires months of scientific analysis, consideration of thousands of stakeholder comments, and thoughtful collaboration among Committee members and Agency staff. “I also want to say that I appreciate the process that the Advisory Committee went through. I think it was a solid process, one that was open and included many opportunities for the public to weigh in. “As someone who is deeply concerned about ending hunger, both here in this country and around the world, I want to offer a few thoughts on the recommendations. “On an HHS blog post yesterday, I saw that the issues of sustainability were off the table for inclusion in the final guidelines. I get why that’s the case, given that sustainability seems to be such a dirty word for some of my colleagues. But this is an important issue. So let’s be clear. What the Advisory Committee report is referring to when it talks about “sustainability” are the patterns of eating that promote health and well-being and provide food security for the today’s population while sustaining human and natural resources for future generations. “So, I think we ought to be talking about sustainability when we’re talking about issues of diet and food security. I do think that it’s important that we at least start a conversation about this issue in the context of dietary guidelines. “And I also think that both of your testimonies do a good job of emphasizing the importance of nutrition on disease prevention and putting these recommendations in that context. In Congress, we ought to be focusing more on prevention as a way to reduce health care costs and improve overall well-being and economic productivity. “We should be highlighting what the science says on good nutrition for our children and our families. “I have an op-ed here from today’s issue of The Hill from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Medical Association which I’d like to insert into the record. “It talks about the importance of the dietary guidelines and the soundness of the science used to inform them. Why is it such a radical idea that we want to give our kids the most nutritious food? “As a parent, I appreciate that these recommendations are based on sound science and are supported by doctors and other leading medical professionals. “You know, some of the biggest critics of these guidelines are from industries that produce the least healthy foods. The reality is that if we all improved our diets, we’d live longer, more productive lives and we’d see our health care spending go down significantly on a number of chronic and preventable diseases. “And, as you begin to put together the final 2015 Dietary Guidelines, I really encourage you to keep the health and well-being of kids at the forefront. I appreciate what you and your agencies have done so far to get to this point and I look forward to seeing the final product later this year.” ###
10.07.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Timothy P. Murray, President/CEO of the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce, announced that the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) has awarded the Chamber a $40,900 grant for economic development planning. “Growing our economy in Worcester has been a top priority for me in Congress. I am proud to advocate for our region and this grant will help us to establish a strong 21st Century economic development plan for Southern Worcester County,” Congressman McGovern said. “This grant will help the Chamber to unify our region’s top priorities in a single plan and help us work together to support our businesses, create new jobs, and grow our economy. I look forward to participating in the planning process and continuing to work with our business leaders to support these important economic development efforts that will benefit families and communities across the region.” The $40,900 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) grant will focus on a 42-community region of Southern Worcester County where a federally-recognized comprehensive strategy does not already exist. It is expected that the planning process will run for 12 months beginning in January 2016 and will include data and statistical research, best practices analysis, and an extensive community engagement process. When complete, the plan will support new job creation, a stronger commercial tax base for municipalities, better business climate for the region, and ultimately, increases to median incomes for families. The plan will inventory and identify synergies between all existing economic development efforts, identify gaps and solutions, and establish an implementation plan that includes measureable outcomes. “The Chamber is proud to be leading this effort between businesses and the public sector and non-profits” Timothy P. Murray said. “It makes sense since there is so much overlap with our existing work in the region, such as our leadership on university partnerships and talent attraction and retention, creating a food hub and supporting the agricultural economy, and improving our business climate to support innovation clusters, entrepreneurship and manufacturing.” Beginning in the 1950s, manufacturing and agricultural facilities began to close causing steady and significant job losses in the Southern Worcester County Region. The healthcare and professional and scientific sectors have grown steadily in recent years providing employment opportunities to the highest skill workers, however the manufacturing, distribution and wholesale trade sectors continue to decline and offer shrinking employment opportunities for the lower skilled workers in the region. As a result, the income gap has continued to widen and the regional economy has suffered. “We need to work harder to close that gap and make sure that people at all skill levels have opportunities to secure jobs and provide for their families,” said McGovern. Murray added, “A rising tide lifts all boats and that’s exactly what we plan to do for Worcester County.” In the spirit of regional collaboration, the Chamber will partner with the Central Massachusetts Regional Planning Agency (CMRPC) to leverage their data and research expertise and planning knowledge, and to support community engagement. “We’re looking forward to working with the Chamber and our many municipal partners to develop a strong roadmap for the region,” said Janet Pierce, Executive Director of the Central Massachusetts Regional Planning Agency. “Supporting economic development is a key priority for CMRPC and we’re glad to have an active role in this process,” she said. For more information on the US EDA or the CEDS Program, please visit http://www.eda.gov/ceds. When the planning process begins, the Chamber will make additional information about public engagement available on website at www.worcesterchamber.org. ###
10.06.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the news that Community Healthlink, the largest and most comprehensive provider of behavioral health and addiction services in central Massachusetts, has been awarded a three-year, $335,000 Project AWARE-Community grant from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to support the training of over 1,000 adults in Mental Health First Aid (MHFA). This training will help faculty and staff on college and university campuses throughout central Massachusetts detect and respond to mental illness in youth 16-24 years old on campus. “Helping our college students succeed starts with ensuring that they are healthy and ready for all the demands of school,” said Congressman McGovern. “For many young people, college can be a stressful time. With this grant, faculty and staff on college and university campuses throughout central Massachusetts will get the training they need to quickly identify and respond to any mental health issues our students are facing. Community Healthlink is doing great work for our community and I know this grant will help college students throughout central Massachusetts.” MHFA is a public education program that trains participants to understand the risk factors and warning signs of mental health problems and builds an understanding of the importance of early intervention. Participants are introduced to local mental health resources, national organizations, support groups, and online tools for mental health and addictions treatment and support. “People sometimes notice a person whose behavior is unusual or who seems to be in distress, and they don’t always know what they can do to help,” said Deborah Ekstrom, Community Healthlink’s President and CEO. “College-age youth are at a unique and vulnerable time in their lives. This is the time when it is common for a number of serious mental illnesses to first manifest. Nearly three-quarters of mental health disorders start by age 24. This project will increase the mental health literacy of adults in our community who interact with college-age youth, and provide them with the skills necessary to appropriately intervene and refer youth who are exhibiting signs of mental distress for professional help.” In order to reach the thousands of potential program participants on campuses throughout Worcester County, Community Healthlink is partnering with LUK, Inc. and the SHINE Initiative to conduct the work under this grant and ensure its success. “LUK, Inc. is excited to participate in this project,” said Richard Hooks Wayman, CEO of LUK, Inc. “College-age youth have newly gained independence in all areas of their life, and as a result many are not monitored by other adults in their life as closely as younger adolescents. As young adults attempt to explore their identities apart from their parents and families, communication can become less frequent. This combination of increased independence, changes in communication and engagement between family members, and the risk of onset of mental illness can create circumstances where youth may not receive the help they need. Now, thanks to this project, we can reduce this risk in a comprehensive way.” “Building coalitions of people and organizations who care about mental health is at the core of what the SHINE Initiative is all about,” said Edward Manzi, Chairman of the SHINE Initiative and Chairman and CEO at Fidelity Bank. “This project is a natural fit for us, and we are eager to use our awareness-raising experience to make this Mental Health First Aid project an unparalleled success.” Community Healthlink, a member of UMass Memorial Health Care, is a multiservice, private, nonprofit organization. Through its 80 programs and nearly 1,200 employees, it is committed to promoting, maintaining, and restoring the dignity, well-being, and mental health of over 21,000 adults, children, and families in central Massachusetts every year. LUK, Inc. is a not-for-profit social service agency located in central Massachusetts dedicated to improving the lives of youth and their families. LUK offers a full spectrum of programs addressing mental and behavioral health, trauma, addiction and substance abuse prevention, and homelessness. The SHINE Initiative, a nonprofit foundation created by Fidelity Bank, is a leader in the effort to recognize mental illness in children and young adults as a mainstream health issue. In pursuit of this mission, the SHINE Initiative develops funding and strategic alliances to improve public awareness and understanding of mental health issues, research, and treatment. ###
10.05.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined national, state, and local leaders at Greenfield Community College for an Opioid Task Force event to talk about the opioid crisis in Massachusetts and the work of elected and community leaders to address it. The event was titled, “Federal, State and Local Perspectives on the Opioid Crisis: Accomplishments, Challenges and Priorities,” and focused on progress made and the work ahead. Pictured Above (From Left to Right): Opioid Task Force of Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region Co-Chairs: Franklin Registrar John Merrigan, Northwestern District Attorney David Sullivan, Opioid Task Force Director Marisa Hebble, Franklin County Sheriff Christopher Donelan, and Congressman Jim McGovern. Following are excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s remarks today: “For families here and throughout Massachusetts and New England, we know just how serious the opioid epidemic is. Our communities and our families are the ones who are hurting and it is essential that we all come together to put an end to this crisis. I am especially grateful to the Opioid Task Forces of Franklin County and the North Quabbin Region for helping to organize this important event and for all of the partnering Task Forces that are here today. “Last week, I had the pleasure to announce a $393,928 Grant from the Department of Justice to support efforts fighting the opioid crisis in the City of Worcester. Last month, our district received additional federal funding through a $100k grant from the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Opioid Overdose Reversal Grant Program for Baystate Franklin Medical Center. “In the past year, I have worked tirelessly to make sure your voices are heard in Washington, co-sponsoring three different bills and joining my House Colleagues to call on administration officials to ensure all of our communities are receiving the federal funds needed to address this crisis. “Prevention efforts are key to tackling this epidemic and we must equip our young people with the skills necessary to identify constructive ways to deal with problems so that turning to drugs is never an option. […] We must make every effort to ensure that treatment is available to those who seek it. Because it takes courage and strength to admit that you need help.” ATTENDING TODAY Joining Congressman McGovern today were the following national, state, and local leaders: Mary Lou Leary – Deputy Director of State, Local and Tribal Affairs from the White House’s Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of the Attorney General, Amy Karangekis, Assistant Attorney General Dr. Monica Bharel, Commissioner, Massachusetts Department of Public Health State Representatives Paul Mark, Stephen Kulik and Susannah Whipps Lee Opioid Task force Co-Chairs: Registrar John Merrigan, Franklin County Sherriff Chris Donelan, and Northwestern District Attorney David Sullivan Kat Allen, Coordinator, Partnership For Youth, Franklin Regional Council of Governments Tim Purington, Director of Prevention Services, Tapestry Health Levin Schwartz, Director of Clinical and Reentry Services, Franklin County Sheriff’s Office Dr. Robert Roose, Chief Medical Officer of Addiction Services Providence Behavioral Health Hospital Abbi Cushing, Recovery Coach, Recovery Support Specialists BACKGROUND: Opiate abuse in the 47 communities in Franklin and Hampshire counties has increased dramatically in recent years. Since 2011, opioid overdoses have risen 280 percent. The number of deaths in 2011 has gone from 13 to 46 in 2013 and first 3 months of 2014. The opioid fatality rate has gone from 5.4 per 100,000 to 21.5 per 100,000. This is far above the 2011 national average of 12.2 and the Massachusetts rate of 10.1. Because of the high cost of prescription drugs, many prescription drug addicts are turning to heroin as it sells for 4-5 dollars per bag. On March 27, 2014, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick declared a public health state of emergency in response to the increase in opiate abuse across Massachusetts. ###
10.05.2015	Today, October 5, at 11:30AM, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will join national, state, and local leaders to talk about the opioid crisis in Massachusetts and their work to address it. The event is titled, “Federal, State and Local Perspectives on the Opioid Crisis: Accomplishments, Challenges and Priorities,” and will focus on progress made and the work ahead. Opiate abuse in the 47 communities in Franklin and Hampshire counties has increased dramatically in recent years. Since 2011, opioid overdoses have risen 280 percent. The number of deaths in 2011 has gone from 13 to 46 in 2013 and first 3 months of 2014. The opioid fatality rate has gone from 5.4 per 100,000 to 21.5 per 100,000. This is far above the 2011 national average of 12.2 and the Massachusetts rate of 10.1. Because of the high cost of prescription drugs, many prescription drug addicts are turning to heroin as it sells for 4-5 dollars per bag. On March 27, 2014, Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick declared a public health state of emergency in response to the increase in opiate abuse across Massachusetts. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) Mary Lou Leary – Deputy Director of State, Local and Tribal Affairs from the White House’s Office of National Drug Control Policy Office of the Attorney General, Amy Karangekis, Assistant Attorney General Dr. Monica Bharel, Commissioner, Massachusetts Department of Public Health State Representatives Paul Mark, Stephen Kulik and Susannah Whipps Lee Opioid Task force Co-Chairs: Registrar John Merrigan, Franklin County Sherriff Chris Donelan and Northwestern District Attorney David Sullivan Kat Allen, Coordinator, Partnership For YouthFranklin Regional Council of Governments Tim Purington, Director of Prevention ServicesTapestry Health Levin Schwartz, Director of Clinical and Reentry ServicesFranklin County Sheriff’s Office Dr. Robert Roose, Chief Medical Officer of Addiction Services Providence Behavioral Health Hospital Abbi Cushing, Recovery CoachRecovery Support Specialists WHAT: Federal, State and Local Perspectives on the Opioid Crisis: Accomplishments, Challenges and Priorities, an Opioid Task Force Event WHERE: Greenfield Community College, 1 College Dr, Greenfield, MA 01301 WHEN: TODAY, October 5, 2015, at 11:30AM – 2:00PM ###
10.02.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and member of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, joined Chairman Mike Thompson (CA-5) and 145 other House Lawmakers in calling on Congressional Republican leaders to act on commonsense gun violence prevention laws in the aftermath of another mass shooting, this time at Umpqua Community College (UCC) in Roseberg, Oregon. Click here to read the letter online. “Every single time a mass shooting happens we go through the same routine. Thoughts and prayers are sent. Statements are made. Stories are written. And nothing changes,” McGovern and House Democrats wrote. “Yesterday it was nine people at a community college. A month ago it was a news reporter and cameraman in Virginia. Two months before that it was a prayer group in Charleston. Mass gun violence has become as commonplace as it is tragic. “Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Congressional Republicans have done nothing over and over again and, predictably, the results have been the same: more innocent lives lost, more families forever changed, and more mass gun violence. “Hours before the UCC shooting 147 bipartisan Members of Congress sent Speaker Boehner a letter urging him to act on gun violence prevention. The five brave co-authors of our background check bill notwithstanding, Republicans have done nothing. Republicans have a majority in Congress, and a White House and Democratic Caucus willing to work with them. All they need to do is get off their hands and act. “Let’s have this time be different. This time, let’s actually pull together and do something to make our country safer.” McGovern has co-sponsored legislation to ensure that no gun is sold by a licensed dealer until a background check is completed and to close the gun show loophole. The full text of the letter to Speaker Boehner is below and online here. October 1, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 2015 Dear Speaker Boehner, Gun violence affects every District and every community in America. We were all shocked and saddened by the senseless deaths of the victims of the Sandy Hook tragedy and have vowed that we would not let this happen again. Sadly, since then, America has been witness to at least 53 mass shootings[1]. Every day in this country, more than thirty people die as a result of gun violence.[2] This does not even address the individual victims of domestic violence or other vicious crimes that destroy families and communities. Our children should be safe in schools. People should be allowed to worship without threat of violence. Walking the neighborhoods of our cities should not be a high-risk activity. It is long past time that Congress addresses this national epidemic. We must ensure that guns do not make it into the hands of criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill. We can do this without infringing on Constitutionally guaranteed rights. We call on you to bring to the Floor legislation that can protect innocent lives while safeguarding the rights of law abiding gun owners. No legislation will stop every tragedy, but passing commonsense gun laws will at least stop some. It is the least we can do to honor the memory of those we’ve lost to gun violence and prevent that list from growing. Sincerely, ###
10.01.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), announced the award of $2.25 million to the Cooperative Fund of New England (CFNE) from the U.S. Department of Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund to support CFNE's cooperative business lending, healthy food financing, and technical assistance programs. The CDFI Fund awarded $202 million in grants and loans to 195 Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) across the country through the latest rounds of the Community Development Financial Institutions Program (CDFI Program) and the Native American CDFI Assistance Program (NACA Program). “With this award, Cooperative Fund of New England will be able to continue the important work it does to strengthen our communities,” Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) said. “From supporting local businesses to increasing access to healthy food and helping families put a roof over their head, this will help to change so many lives for the better. I am grateful to have a strong federal partner in the Treasury Department to help us invest in New England businesses and families. I look forward to seeing all the good that CFNE will do as they put this money toward so many good causes.” “We are thrilled and grateful to receive this wonderful award from the US Treasury CDFI Fund on behalf of the cooperatives in New England,” said Rebecca Dunn, Executive Director of the Cooperative Fund of New England. ”This award will leverage private funds and enable us to lend more money in our market area, creating jobs, affordable housing, as well additional healthy food access to programs to help cooperatives serve the low income community. We really hope we can meet the match challenge by January 2016. What a great way to celebrate our 40th anniversary in 2015!” “Today's awards highlight how much the CDFI Program has contributed in its 20 year history toward building a strong network of CDFIs across the country,” CDFI Fund Director Annie Donovan said “These important community partners are not only on the frontlines of economically distressed communities providing needed capital and credit, they are building a more inclusive economy which benefits the nation as a whole.” Common Capital, a community loan fund and non-profit organization, is among the awardees. They have supported a number of local businesses and organizations in Congressman McGovern’s district, including Quabbin Harvest in Orange, Greenfield Solar Array, Simple Gifts Farm in Amherst, South Amherst Veterinary Hospital, and others. Through this work, they support local economies with the goal of creating positive social and community impacts. They connect capital and other resources to community needs and opportunities. They accomplish this by providing financing and business assistance to small businesses and high-impact community projects. Key Points About the Award: CFNE was one of only 11 entities receiving Healthy Food Financing Initiative-FA (HFFI-FA) funds and the only group in New England to get an HFFI-FA award. The CFNE award includes $1,000,000 in Financial Assistance awards that require a match with funds from a non-federal source. Financial Assistance awards can be used for lending capital, loan loss reserves, capital reserves, financial services, and development services. CFNE has already matched $850,000, and is actively soliciting additional matching funds. The CFNE award also includes $1,250,000 from the Healthy Food Financing Initiative Financial Assistance awards. These are supplemental funds under the CDFI Program for eligible CDFIs that expressed an interest in expanding their healthy food-focused financing activities and had received Financial Assistance awards, and they do not require a match. Certified as a CDFI in 1996, CFNE received its first CDFI Fund award of $250,000 in 1997 to increase capital access for cooperative business owners across New England and into upstate NY. Since then, CFNE has been awarded almost $8.9 million to date (including its recent $2.25 million award) to continue that work and to expand its focus toward development of healthy foods systems. Since CFNE's founding in 1975, it has made over 760 loans, totaling almost $40 million, which have resulted in the creation or retention of over 9,900 jobs and 5,400 housing units across the region. The CDFI Fund invests in and builds the capacity of community credit unions, banks, loan funds, and other financial institutions serving rural and urban communities across the nation that lack adequate access to affordable financial products and services. Through the first 20 rounds of this program, the CDFI Fund has awarded more than $1.5 billion, helping build a nationwide network of more than 950 CDFIs located in every state, all focused on economically empowering the communities they serve. About the CDFI Fund Since its creation in 1994, the CDFI Fund has awarded more than $2 billion to CDFIs, community development organizations, and financial institutions through the CDFI Program, the NACA Program, the Bank Enterprise Award Program, the Capital Magnet Fund, and the Financial Education and Counseling Pilot Program. In addition, the CDFI Fund has allocated $43.5 billion in tax credit allocation authority to Community Development Entities through the New Markets Tax Credit Program, and $525 million has been guaranteed in bonds through the CDFI Bond Guarantee Program. To learn more about the CDFI Fund and its programs, please visit: www.cdfifund.gov About Cooperative Fund of New England The Cooperative Fund of New England (CFNE) is a community development loan fund that facilitates socially responsible investing in cooperatives, community-oriented nonprofits, and worker-owned businesses in New England and adjacent communities in New York. Since CFNE's founding in 1975, we have made over 7600 loans, totaling almost $40 million, which have resulted in the creation or retention of over 9,900 jobs and 5,400 housing units across the region. For more information, visit: www.coopfund.coop. ###
09.30.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), applauded the announcement by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that the University of Massachusetts Medical School would receive up to $29.2 million through the Transforming Clinical Practice Initiative to equip more than Massachusetts clinicians with the tools and support needed to improve quality of care, increase patients’ access to information, and reduce costs for Massachusetts families. “Our families deserve access to quality, affordable health care and this partnership between UMass Medical School and the UConn Health Center will help to achieve that,” said Congressman McGovern. “With this initiative, UMass Medical School will support healthy communities by helping health care providers to improve the quality of their care, increase patient access to information, and ensure we’re getting the most bang for our buck on health care spending. I am grateful to have a strong partner in HHS Secretary Burwell to invest in our communities and look forward to seeing all that UMass Medical School will achieve through this important initiative.” The Southern New England Practice Transformation Network – created by UMass Medical School and the University of Connecticut Health Center – was one of the 39 health care collaborative networks selected for the funding. The funding will support the network in offering peer-to-peer support to primary and specialty physicians, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, clinical pharmacists, and their practices. These efforts include: Helping providers give patients better tools for communication through e-mails and other information technology applications; Providing dedicated coaches to help practices better manage chronic disease and offer preventive care; Offering real-time notification alerts for clinicians caring for high-risk patients; Improving screening and treatment of mental health and substance abuse across multiple care settings and increasing patient medication management education; Centralizing data reporting and providing technical assistance with quality improvement targets and mid-course corrections; and Promoting patient, provider and community engagement through advisory boards and community engagement in learning collaboratives. “Supporting doctors and other health care professionals change the way they work is critical to improving quality and spending our health care dollars more wisely,” said HHS Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell. “These awards will give patients more of the information they need to make informed decisions about their care and give clinicians access to information and support to improve care coordination and quality outcomes.” “Anchored by a partnership between Massachusetts’ and Connecticut’s public medical schools and four large regional health care systems, the Southern New England Practice Transformation Network is designing and implementing an improvement model that supports clinical practices in the transformation needed for success under alternative payment models,” said David Polakoff, MD, MSc, chief medical officer and associate dean of UMass Medical School’s Commonwealth Medicine division. “Our network will focus its efforts on small, independent, rural practices, which have been historically underserved by transformation initiatives.” As a Practice Transformation Network, UMass Medical School and UConn Health Center will support efforts by 5,400 clinicians to expand their quality improvement capacity, learn from one another, and achieve common goals of improved care, better health, and reduced costs. Initial network partners include Baycare Health Partners, Baystate Health, Berkshire Health Systems, eHealthConnecticut, Qualis Health, Massachusetts eHealth Institute, Massachusetts Health Policy Commission, and UMass Memorial Health Care. Other eligible health care systems and clinical practices will be invited to join the network. The network will help participating clinicians meet clinical and operational results through coaching on clinical quality measures and new care delivery models, enhancing effective use of health information technology, strengthening the medical neighborhood through communication and coordination, disseminating best practices, and implementing payment methodologies that create long-term sustainability. These awards are part of a comprehensive strategy advanced by the Affordable Care Act that enables new levels of coordination, continuity, and integration of care, while transitioning volume-driven systems to value-based, patient-centered, health care services. It builds upon successful models and programs such as the Hospital Value-Based Purchasing Organization Program, Partnership for Patients with Hospital Engagement Networks, and Accountable Care Organizations. For more information on the Transforming Clinical Practice Initiative, please visit: http://innovation.cms.gov/initiatives/Transforming-Clinical-Practices/ ###
09.30.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the announcement of a $393,928, two-year grant – one of only 14 given out across the country by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) – to the Worcester County District Attorney’s Office to fund a multidisciplinary approach to reduce prescription drug abuse. “For our families in Worcester and across Massachusetts, tackling the opioid crisis is a top priority and this grant will make a tremendous difference,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Worcester) said. “I am grateful to the Worcester County Opioid Abuse Prevention Task Force for all of their work to end this terrible crisis. I know this strong partnership with the Justice Department will help them continue this important mission.” “This is a great day in our on-going fight against opioid abuse in Worcester County,” Worcester County District Attorney Joseph D. Early Jr. said. “The money will support the strategies and activities that the Worcester County Opioid Abuse Prevention Task Force is currently working on to end opioid abuse. This funding couldn’t come at a better time for Worcester County.” The four specific goals of the project are to improve the data quality and monitoring; reduce the number of people diverting, misusing and abusing prescription drugs and opioids; reduce the number of unintentional opioid overdose deaths; and increase the capacity of law enforcement to investigate and respond to crimes involving prescription drugs and opioids. Massachusetts and Worcester County have been suffering over the last three years from the opioid epidemic that has seen many people move from the abuse of pain medication prescribed by a doctor to heroin being bought on the street. Opioid overdose deaths spiked from 78 in 2012 to 120 in 2013. Thirty-nine of Worcester County’s 60 communities had at least one overdose death in 2013 and more than a quarter of the communities had multiple overdose deaths. Last year, there were 113 suspected overdose deaths throughout Worcester County. This year the number of overdose deaths has hit 89 in less than nine months. Among the actions the grant will support are a partnership with the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences University. Best practices currently evolving throughout the nation will be reviewed. A partnership with the University of Massachusetts Medical Center will focus on new strategies currently being developed to fight the epidemic. The grant will also fund an up to date public education campaign focusing on prevention. The combined effort will emphasize public awareness of the potential risks of prescription opioids, safeguarding and proper disposal of prescriptions and availability of treatment resources. Also the grant partners with will share data and analyze the best information in this fight. The Worcester County Task Force will review and analyze the data. The analysis will help the Task Force target strategies to reduce prescription abuse and opioid addiction. ###
09.29.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and the Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, spoke on the House floor to highlight the impact of another Republican government shutdown on the 45 million Americans who rely on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or food stamps to help put food on the table. Click Here for Video of the Speech. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “While there is talk of a two-month spending bill to keep the government open before time runs out this week, we have yet to see it. And passing a short-term bill will only postpone a Republican shutdown, not stop it. As long as it remains a possibility, we need to talk about the cost to everyday families. “Unlike the last Republican shutdown in 2013, closing the government’s doors this time around means millions of Americans may be cut off from their federal food assistance benefits. “SNAP is our nation’s premier anti-hunger program. And it is one of the most effective and efficient of any federal program. Two-thirds of all SNAP recipients are the most vulnerable among us – children, seniors and the disabled. And millions more are working families who may be working one, two, or three jobs just to make ends meet and sometimes it’s still not enough. SNAP is a critical program that millions of Americans depend on to keep from going hungry. “Nobody in this chamber will go without food if the Republicans shut down the government. None of our kids will go without food. But millions and millions of our fellow citizens will. “For the sake of 45 million Americans across the country and more than 700,000 in Massachusetts who depend on SNAP, I urge my Republican colleagues to work with Democrats on a long-term, bipartisan budget that puts families first. Families who rely on SNAP shouldn’t have to worry about losing their benefits at the end of every short-term funding bill. “Whether it’s this week or in December, our most vulnerable families simply cannot afford another Republican shutdown.” ------------------------------------------------------- The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Click here for video of speech. As Prepared For Delivery: “While there is talk of a two-month spending bill to keep the government open before time runs out this week, we have yet to see it. And passing a short-term bill will only postpone a Republican shutdown, not stop it. As long as it remains a possibility, we need to talk about the cost to everyday families. “Unlike the last Republican shutdown in 2013, closing the government’s doors this time around means millions of Americans may be cut off from their federal food assistance benefits. “45 million Americans rely on the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program – or SNAP -- to help put food on the table. SNAP is our nation’s premier anti-hunger program. And it is one of the most effective and efficient of any federal program. Two-thirds of all SNAP recipients are the most vulnerable among us – children, seniors and the disabled. And millions more are working families who may be working one, two, or three jobs just to make ends meet and sometimes it’s still not enough. SNAP is a critical program that millions of Americans depend on to keep from going hungry. “During the last Republican shutdown in 2013, SNAP had contingency funds available from the stimulus law that meant SNAP benefits continued uninterrupted. But, stimulus funding was cut off in November 2013. So this time around, there’s no “back-up” plan for SNAP. “Current law prevents the U.S. Department of Agriculture from spending SNAP money it doesn’t have. Without congressional action, USDA will be forced to shut off retailers from accepting SNAP benefits within the first few days of October. That means families won’t be able to use their SNAP benefits to purchase food at any store that normally accepts SNAP – including grocery stores, big box retailers or corner stores. “It is unfathomable to me that this would happen. That Republicans would threaten the food benefits of tens of millions of American children, families and seniors. And all just to score political points with their conservative base. Whether Republicans shut down the government this week or in December, it is unacceptable to leave struggling families out in the cold. “As our economy continues to recover, I would remind my colleagues that SNAP is one of the quickest, most effective economic multipliers we have. Every $1 in SNAP benefits generates about $1.70 in economic activity. About 80 percent of SNAP benefits are redeemed within two weeks of receipt and about 97 percent are spent within a month. Every day, SNAP pumps money back into our local economies and supports local businesses. “And SNAP benefits can only be spent on food, meaning that a family can use its other income to meet its other essential needs like paying rent, utilities and medical care. “Not only would a government shutdown have a devastating impact on hungry families, it has the potential to result in serious economic harm to retailers that could ripple throughout our economy. “Already, food banks, food pantries and soup kitchens are bracing to serve an influx of clients if SNAP benefits are cut off. But despite the incredible work they do, these charities are already overburdened. The demand for food assistance is incredibly high. They are working tirelessly every day to meet the need. And charities are already forced to pick up the slack from an inadequate SNAP benefit. All too often the benefit runs out before the end of the month and families must turn to charities just to cobble together enough to eat. “I cannot begin to imagine how overwhelmed anti-hunger agencies will be if millions of Americans lose access to SNAP next month. Unfortunately, in a Republican-controlled Congress with a habit of going from one crisis to the next, this scenario is all-too realistic. “A government shutdown would literally take food away from hungry Americans. It would be devastating for the millions of Americans that are already struggling to put food on the table and make ends meet. Families who rely on SNAP cannot afford to have their food benefits disrupted, even for a day. “We should be working to end hunger now, not making hunger worse, in this country, the richest country in the world. Quite frankly, it is unconscionable we are even in a situation where millions of hungry people are at risk of losing their food benefits. “Last week, Pope Francis delivered an inspiring message to Congress. It is unthinkable that we could so quickly forget his call for compassion and helping our fellow man. For millions of American families who are already struggling to put food on the table, we should be giving them a hand up, not taking food away. “Nobody in this chamber will go without food if the Republicans shut down the government. None of our kids will go without food. But millions and millions of our fellow citizens will. “For the sake of 45 million Americans across the country and more than 700,000 in Massachusetts who depend on SNAP, I urge my Republican colleagues to work with Democrats on a long-term, bipartisan budget that puts families first. Families who rely on SNAP shouldn’t have to worry about losing their benefits at the end of every short-term funding bill. “Whether it’s this week or in December, our most vulnerable families simply cannot afford another Republican shutdown.” ###
09.25.2015	Today, as President Obama meets with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the White House, Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission (TLHRC), led a bipartisan “Stateless” Breakfast to honor the human rights defenders who have been imprisoned, intimidated, and silenced by the Chinese government and will not have a seat at the table for tonight’s White House dinner. “As President Obama and President Xi meet at the White House today, we are sending a clear bipartisan message that human rights must be at the top of the agenda. America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights at home and abroad,” Congressman McGovern said. “We want to build a constructive relationship with China as a partner on the world stage, but the human rights abuses that continue there cannot be ignored. Today, we are giving a voice to all those who China has tried to silence. This is a moment for real leadership and the world is watching.” Joining McGovern today in honoring the human rights activists (full list below) were Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA), McGovern’s fellow TLHRC co-chair, Senator Marco Rubio (FL), Co-Chairman of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, other members of Congress, and leaders from a wide range of international human rights organizations including Human Rights Watch, Freedom House, China Aid, Initiatives for China, International Campaign for Tibet, Project 2049 Institute, Reporters Without Borders, and others. “With President Xi’s state visit, we will see the pomp and might of the Chinese state. It is all the more important, then, that we show the conscience of the Chinese people,” Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA) said. “To stand up for the rights of any man is to stand up also for the rights of everyone. The voices of those who have so bravely stood for human rights in China, and endured the oppression of the regime must be heard. I urge everyone here to continue to speak the truth about what is taking place in China, and to keep working until the rights and dignity of every human being are upheld.” “I am pleased to partner with the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and many respected human rights organizations to host this breakfast to honor China’s human rights defenders, on the occasion of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s state visit to Washington,” said Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL). “The United States must commit to embracing the struggle of China’s real heroes—the men and women who courageously lay claim, regardless of the cost, to their basic human rights. Together, we look forward to that day when the God-given rights of the Chinese people are finally realized.” “We are proud to partner with Congressmen McGovern and Pitts and other members of Congress on both sides of the aisle as we continue our work to lift the voices of human rights activists who have been oppressed in China,” said Sophie Richardson, China Director of Human Rights Watch. “By praising these courageous human rights defenders today, we are honoring their sacrifice and continuing the fight for justice.” HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVISTS HONORED Chen Guangcheng, a civil rights lawyer and activist, spoke about freedom of expression. Chen Guangcheng advocated for the rights of disabled people in rural communities in China, and organized class-action litigation against the government’s violent enforcement of its one-child policy. Blind since his childhood, Chen is self-taught in the law, and is currently a Distinguished Visiting Fellow at Catholic University’s Institute for Policy Research and Catholic Studies. Lu Pin, a feminist activist, journalist and columnist who has worked for women’s rights in China for more than 20 years, spoke on women’s rights. She is director of Media Monitor Network for Women and chief editor of Feminist Voices, a leading alternative media outlet in China. Rebiya Kadeer, the president of the World Uyghur Congress, spoke about those in China who have been the victims of arbitrary detention and torture. Before her arrest in 1999, she was one of the wealthiest and best-known Uyghur businesswomen in China. But that year, while en route to meet with a U.S. Congressional delegation, Ms. Kadeer was arrested and sentenced to eight years in prison for ‘stealing state secrets.’ On March 17, 2005, three days before an official visit to Beijing by the U.S. Secretary of State, she was released from prison on medical grounds. She was later granted political asylum here in the U.S. Dr. Teng Biao, a lawyer and a human rights activist, spoke on the right to due process, legal representation and equal justice under the law. Since 2003, Teng has provided counsel in a wide variety of human rights cases and numerous death penalty cases. He co-founded “Open Constitution Initiative” and founded China Against the Death Penalty, Beijing. Formerly a lecturer in law at the University of Law and Politics in Beijing, he is currently a visiting scholar with the U.S. – Asia Law Institute at the NYU School of Law. Tsering Kyi spoke on religious freedom. A Tibetan writer, blogger and poet, Tsering Kyi has been working since 2009 at Voice of America as a host of a program on the Tibetan Internet. In January 2013, her nephew, Tsering Tashi, committed self-immolation in Tibet to protest Chinese policies. Yang Jianli of Initiatives for China spoke on behalf of Ti-Anna Wang about the basic right and a pillar of democracy, the freedom of association and assembly. Ti-Anna Wang is the daughter of Dr. Wang Bingzhang, a Chinese democracy activist currently serving a life sentence in China. Since his wrongful imprisonment, she has been a vocal advocate for his release. ###
09.25.2015	Today, September 25th, as Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with President Obama at the White House, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, will host a “Stateless” Breakfast to honor human rights defenders who have been imprisoned, intimidated, and silenced by the Chinese government. “America has a responsibility to stand up for human rights at home and abroad and that must not stop with our allies,” Congressman McGovern said. “The U.S. must do more to hold China accountable for their human rights abuses and with this breakfast we will raise the voices of all those who are fighting for the reforms that are needed. Our two countries have worked together on a wide range of issues and strengthening human rights must be one of them.” Joining McGovern for the bipartisan event will be his fellow co-chair, Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA), human rights activists, and leaders from a wide range of international human rights organizations. Along with the commission and these groups, the breakfast is also hosted by the Congressional-Executive Commission on China, which is co-chaired by Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ). WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA) Human Rights Activists Leaders from Human Rights Watch, Freedom House, Reporters without Borders, the International Campaign for Tibet, China Aid, Initiatives for China, Project 2049 Institute, and the World Uyghur Congress WHAT: China “Stateless” Breakfast to Honor Human Rights Activists WHERE: U.S. Capitol – House Visitor Center Room 201 WHEN: Today, September 25th at 8:30AM to 10:30AM To RSVP, please contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
09.24.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement on the Colombian peace process: This week marks a major step forward for peace with the historic agreement reached by the Colombian government and Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) negotiating teams. By working together to find common ground, they have reached a critical agreement on transitional justice, or how to hold accountable those on all sides who committed serious war crimes and human rights violations. These agreements, once again, reflect the commitment and serious nature of the peace process and the desire to negotiate a just and lasting peace. The accord foresees five to eight years of "restriction of liberty" for those who confess all their crimes and make reparations to victims. It applies stiffer penalties to those who do not. The result may be that some who committed grave human rights crimes may not go to prison, even if their freedoms and movements are restricted. It is not easy to balance peace and justice, yet they must coexist and serve the demands of truth, reconciliation and an end to violence and vengence. If well-implemented, the agreement on transitional justice offers all Colombians, and especially those who have been victims of violence and abuse by parties to the conflict, a path to address the deep wounds of the past, hold accountable the perpetrators of violence and abuse, and break the culture of impunity. It is important, however, for the implementation of this agreement not to whitewash serious human rights crimes committed by both sides. I want to express my admiration to President Santos and the Government and FARC negotiating teams; to Cuba and Norway for their steadfast support of the peace process; to the many legal, religious, academic and human rights experts, inside and outside Colombia, who provided insights and assistance on transitional justice to the negotiating teams; and to all the victims who shared the painful reality of how decades of armed conflict have affected the lives of individuals, children, families, women, minorities and communities throughout Colombia. Earlier this week, Pope Francis ‎voiced all of our sentiments when he called on Colombia to end “the long night of pain and violence.” It is my sincere hope that by March of next year at the very latest, a new day might indeed dawn for all Colombians. ###
09.23.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded the Worcester Fire Department a $51,290 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) to support their operations and safety. The grant will allow the Worcester Fire Department to purchase 260 units of attack hose and 56 units of supply hose. “Keeping our communities safe starts with investing in our first responders and this grant will help support the great work Chief Gardell and the Worcester Fire Department are doing,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to the Department of Homeland Security for this grant and grateful to them for being such a strong partner for our local communities. Every day, the brave service and sacrifice of our Worcester firefighters and their families helps to keep Worcester safe and I am glad that this award will allow them to purchase the equipment they need to continue this important work.” “The Worcester Fire Department is grateful for the $51,290 received from FEMA for the Fiscal Year 2014 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program,” said Worcester Fire Chief Geoffrey Gardell. “These funds will allow the department to purchase 260 units of attack hose and 56 units of supply hose, which will be outfitted on front line suppression companies.” The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. ###
09.18.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), announced $2.7 million from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the Worcester Regional Airport, helping to support its continued success. The funding will support the construction of a partial parallel taxiway to Runway 11/29 in order to reduce the need to back taxi on the runway. This grant will provide funding for phase 1 of a 2 phase project. This phase includes construction of an approximately 3,500 foot haul road. This project will also install a new CAT III approach lighting system for Runway 11. This grant will provide funding for the reconstruction of Surface Movement Guidance Control System (SMGCS) route taxiways and installation of the lighting system infrastructure which is necessary for the installation of the approach lighting system. “With this grant, Worcester Regional Airport will have the resources they need to continue their exciting growth,” Congressman McGovern said. “Bringing federal dollars back to Worcester to support our local economy is one of my top priorities. I am pleased this funding will help Worcester Airport expand their runway and increase their capacity as it continues to serve as a major transportation hub. I am proud to have strong partners with the FAA supporting our economy and I look forward to seeing Worcester Airport’s continued growth and success. “Worcester Regional Airport is fortunate to have Rep. McGovern as a tireless advocate for safety in Washington,’’ said Massport CEO Thomas P. Glynn. “The Cat III instrument landing system will make a safe and reliable airport safer and more reliable.’’ ###
09.18.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), announced that Rev. Philip L. Boroughs, S.J., president of the College of the Holy Cross, will attend Pope Francis’ unprecedented address to Congress on Sept. 24, part of his first visit to the United States. It is the first time a pope will address a joint meeting of the House and Senate. “Next week, I am excited to have Fr. Boroughs join me for Pope Francis’ historic address to Congress and Americans across the country,” Congressman McGovern said. “As president of the College of the Holy Cross, Fr. Boroughs has been a pillar of our community in Worcester and it is a privilege to have him come to Washington for the pope’s first visit to the U.S. Pope Francis is inspiring millions of people every day with his call for world leaders to do more to tackle climate change, poverty, and so many of the other great challenges of our time. I look forward to hearing his message and hope it will inspire our leaders to work together to build the stronger future we all know is possible.” “As a member of the Society of Jesus, I am honored to be able to attend this historic occasion. Clearly, being present when Pope Francis addresses Congress is an opportunity of a lifetime,” Fr. Boroughs said. “I am most grateful to Congressman McGovern for inviting me and look forward to hearing the Holy Father share with the American people his vision for engaging significant opportunities and crises facing the global community today.” Jamie Hoag ’98, director of government and community relations at Holy Cross, will also attend the address with Congressman McGovern and Fr. Boroughs. While Fr. Boroughs is in Washington D.C., students, faculty, and staff at Holy Cross will have the opportunity to watch the pope’s address to Congress at a gathering on campus. Holy Cross is also participating in the Ignatian Solidarity Network’s “watch party,” which involves nearly two dozen Catholic institutions around the country watching the address to Congress. Pope Francis will arrive in Washington D.C. on Sept. 22; on Sept. 24 he will head to New York City, and he will end his U.S. trip in Philadelphia Sept. 26-27. ###
09.18.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined 78 of his fellow Members of Congress in a letter to Speaker John Boehner urging him to keep the House in session every day until a deal is reached to prevent another government shutdown. With just six legislative days scheduled before the government closes its doors at 12:01 am on October 1st, the letter led by Rep. Cheri Bustos (IL-17) calls on the Speaker to use his power to keep Congress working every day, including over the next two weekends, until there's an agreement. “American families expect real leadership from their representatives in Congress. Instead, they are seeing House Republicans bring us closer to the brink of yet another costly government shutdown,” Congressman McGovern said. “We’ve seen this movie before. The last time House Republicans shut down the government, it cost our economy $24 billion and 120,000 private sector jobs. We are standing with families across the country to say enough is enough. Speaker Boehner, it’s time to put an end to these theatrics and get down to the business of finding the bipartisan solutions we need to keep our economy growing and help all of our families succeed.” The last time Republicans shut down the government for 16 days, it had real consequences for families across the country: The Republican shutdown stalled veterans’ disability claims – creating additional, needless delays for our heroes seeking help; Hundreds of critically sick Americans were prevented from enrolling in National Institutes of Health Clinical trials – with 98 percent of the National Science Foundation, nearly three-quarters of NIH, and two-thirds of CDC employees furloughed; Head Start grantees serving thousands of children were forced to close; American entrepreneurs and small businesses were cut off from millions of dollars in SBA loans – and small businesses with government contracts faced abrupt payment delays and cutbacks; Almost $4 billion in tax refunds were delayed. As of right now, Congress has more recess days scheduled than working days before a potential shutdown. Below is the text of the Letter to Speaker Boehner: Dear Speaker Boehner, We write you today to express our deep concern regarding the looming government shutdown which will occur on October 1st should Congress fail to reach a bipartisan consensus to fund the government. As of right now, there are just six legislative days scheduled before the end of the month. The American people deserve to know that their elected representatives are working around the clock to avoid another self-inflicted Washington wound on our national and local economies. As the Speaker of the House, you have the power to change the legislative calendar. We strongly urge you to keep the House of Representatives in session every day from now until we reach a deal. We already know the impact that a shutdown will have on our economy because it happened just two years ago. According to Standard & Poors, the 16 day government shutdown of 2013 cost the U.S. economy $24 billion and reduced 4th quarter GDP growth by 0.6%. We simply cannot allow this failure to happen again. As Representatives, each of us has an obligation to the American people—the working families, seniors, veterans and others we have the privilege of serving. Now is the time to reject partisan gridlock and work together toward a common sense solution for the American people. With the clock ticking, we can't afford to waste a moment. As Speaker, you have the power to keep Congress in session. We urge you to exercise that authority before it's too late. Respectfully, James P. McGovern Member of Congress Cheri Bustos Member of Congress Linda Sánchez Member of Congress Derek Kilmer Member of Congress Judy Chu Member of Congress G.K. Butterfield Member of Congress Raúl M. Grijalva Member of Congress Jared Polis Member of Congress Jan Schakowsky Member of Congress Jim Cooper Member of Congress Ruben Gallego Member of Congress Joyce Beatty Member of Congress Brad Ashford Member of Congress Tammy Duckworth Member of Congress Sanford Bishop Member of Congress Gwen Graham Member of Congress Jim Costa Member of Congress Filemon Vela Member of Congress Kyrsten Sinema Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Member of Congress Bill Foster Member of Congress Juan Vargas Member of Congress Mike Quigley Member of Congress Mark Takai Member of Congress Debbie Dingell Member of Congress Steve Cohen Member of Congress John Delaney Member of Congress Paul D. Tonko Member of Congress Julia Brownley Member of Congress Scott Peters Member of Congress Rick Nolan Member of Congress Matthew Cartwright Member of Congress Kathleen M. Rice Member of Congress David Cicilline Member of Congress Tulsi Gabbard Member of Congress Dave Loebsack Member of Congress Ami Bera Member of Congress Katherine Clark Member of Congress Ann Kirkpatrick Member of Congress Alma Adams Member of Congress Sean Patrick Maloney Member of Congress Jared Huffman Member of Congress Mike Honda Member of Congress Dan Kildee Member of Congress Grace Napolitano Member of Congress Mark DeSaulnier Member of Congress Barbara Lee Member of Congress Sander Levin Member of Congress Steve Israel Member of Congress Elijah Cummings Member of Congress Chellie Pingree Member of Congress Mark Pocan Member of Congress Tim Walz Member of Congress Elizabeth Esty Member of Congress Jim Himes Member of Congress Grace Meng Member of Congress John Garamendi Member of Congress Chris Van Hollen Member of Congress Emanuel Cleaver Member of Congress Brad Sherman Member of Congress Ed Perlmutter Member of Congress Bobby Rush Member of Congress Robin Kelly Member of Congress Luis Gutiérrez Member of Congress Ann Kuster Member of Congress Lois Frankel Member of Congress Joseph Kennedy Member of Congress André Carson Member of Congress Donna Edwards Member of Congress Patrick Murphy Member of Congress Peter Welch Member of Congress Marcia Fudge Member of Congress Karen Bass Member of Congress Eddie Bernice Johnson Member of Congress Corrine Brown Member of Congress Charles Rangel Member of Congress Dina Titus Member of Congress Jackie Speier Member of Congress Lloyd Doggett Member of Congress ###
09.17.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), the second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, managed floor debate for House Democrats on H.R. 3134 and H.R. 3504, calling out House Republicans for their reckless attempt to defund Planned Parenthood and risk another government shutdown. Watch video of Congressman’s floor speech here. Highlights from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “Today, the House should be debating a bill to keep the government open before funding runs out at the end of the month. We have just 6 legislative days left before there is a government shutdown. Instead of tackling this, we are once again debating another Republican attack on women’s health. “In fact, House Republicans were in such a hurry to waste our time with this destructive legislation that the bill from Representative Franks had no hearings and no mark-up. This is the first time we’re seeing this bill. What ever happened to regular order? “With one bill after another, Republicans have repeatedly hurt our country’s most vulnerable families and these bills today are just the latest chapter. And I find it ironic that after leaving a luncheon to support the prevention of cancer, I am now here with my colleagues to debate legislation that will actually result in fewer people having access to life-saving cancer screenings. “And in this Republican Congress, facts don’t matter. They don’t talk about facts. They’re inconvenient and they’re a nuisance – especially when they get in the way of their extreme political agenda. “We should be focused on growing our economy, creating jobs, protecting access to health care, increasing college affordability, and building a better future. Instead, 30 conservative House Republicans have decided to take government funding hostage. The American people deserve better.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Full video here. As Prepared For Delivery: “I rise today in strong opposition to H.R. 3134 and H.R. 3504 and in strong opposition to the underlying rule. “Today, the House should be debating a bill to keep the government open before funding runs out at the end of the month. We have just 6 legislative days left before there is a government shutdown. Instead of tackling this, we are once again debating another Republican attack on women’s health. “In fact, House Republicans were in such a hurry to waste our time with this destructive legislation that the bill from Representative Franks had no hearings and no mark-up. This is the first time we’re seeing this bill. What ever happened to regular order? “Of all the measures that have come before the Rules Committee, more than 75 percent have completely ignored regular order and were rushed to the floor without a legislative hearing and mark-up, denying the people’s elected representatives the opportunity to hear from experts and speak up for their constituents. When you look at the politically-motivated legislation that regularly comes before this body, it’s easy to see why. This is not how the people’s House is supposed to work. “And late last night, the Republican majority of the Rules Committee took another shortcut through a process called “self-executing” that let them slip an amendment offered by Ms. Ellmers into today’s legislation to redirect funding away from Planned Parenthood facilities. Under regular order, this amendment would have required two waivers from the Committee to be considered on the House floor. On top of that, the Ellmers amendment would have also violated Section 302(f) of the Congressional Budget Act, which prohibits the consideration of legislation that exceeds a committee's allocation of budget authority. “This is just another attempt by the House majority to shut out debate on important issues, and ignore the House rules when it’s convenient for them. During this Congress alone, 118 waivers have been granted. 115 of those waivers – or 97 percent! – have been for Republicans. Instead of the House Rules Committee, we should be known as the House Break-the-Rules Committee. The legislative process in this House has become a joke. This is not serious legislating. “With one bill after another, Republicans have repeatedly hurt our country’s most vulnerable families and these bills today are just the latest chapter. And I find it ironic that after leaving a luncheon to support the prevention of cancer, I am now here with my colleagues to debate legislation that will actually result in fewer people having access to life-saving cancer screenings. “And this is nothing new. One of the first acts of the Republican House majority in 2011 was to drive us to the brink of a government shutdown over Planned Parenthood. In October 2013, the Republicans did shut down the government by insisting on defunding the Affordable Care Act. Now, two years later, they are right back to threatening a Republican Government Shutdown over Planned Parenthood. “H. Res. 3134, the so-called Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 is a bad, backward-thinking bill. “In the 114th Congress, the House has already taken four anti-women’s health votes and today sets the stage for us to take two additional votes to restrict access to women’s health care. Incredibly, this is already twice the number of anti-women’s health votes than at this same point in the 113th and 112th Congresses – and this Congress is not even half over. “And in this Republican Congress, facts don’t matter. They don’t talk about facts. They’re inconvenient and they’re a nuisance – especially when they get in the way of their extreme political agenda. “The fact is that Planned Parenthood plays a critical role in protecting and providing access to critical health services for both women and men. One in five women has relied on a Planned Parenthood health center for care in her lifetime and Planned Parenthood serves 2.7 million patients each year. And one of the most important statistics that my Republican friends like to ignore is that more than 90 percent of what Planned Parenthood does nationally is preventive care – including cervical cancer screenings, breast cancer screenings, and family planning – not abortion services. “Add to this the fact that Planned Parenthood clinics are often one of the few affordable health care options available for many women – nearly 80 percent of women using Planned Parenthood clinics have incomes at or below 150 percent of poverty – and it’s easy to see why a majority of Americans don’t think federal funding should be eliminated. In one recent poll, 63 percent of voters, including 72 percent of independents, do not agree with my Republican friends that federal funding for Planned Parenthood should be eliminated. “In fact, we have also heard very little about the consequences that defunding Planned Parenthood would have for families across the country. One of the biggest myths perpetuated by Republicans is the idea that our nation’s community health centers – which I love and adore and respect – could suddenly pick up the slack if Planned Parenthood is defunded. “For the millions of low-income women who depend on Planned Parenthood clinics, this scenario would mean the loss of affordable and accessible contraceptive services and counseling, as well as breast and cervical cancer screenings. The idea that our community health centers could – overnight – suddenly step in and cover millions of new patients is simply wrong and shows a fundamental misunderstanding by Republicans of how our country’s health care system works. “In fact, the Guttmacher Institute recently found that in 21 percent of the counties with a Planned Parenthood health center, Planned Parenthood is the only safety-net family planning provider. “The report also states that “In two-thirds of the 491 counties in which they are located, Planned Parenthood health centers serve at least half of all women obtaining contraceptive care from safety-net health centers. In one-fifth of the counties in which they are located, Planned Parenthood sites are the sole safety-net family planning center.” “This makes clear just how devastating it would be for these communities if we were to recklessly cut funding for these vital health services for the people who need them most. “Everyone here in this Congress, with the snap of their fingers, can get healthcare, but with today’s bills, Republicans seem to be saying that for families who are poor or live in rural areas, you’re simply out of luck. Talk about cruel. “I have a recent article from Health Affairs Blog titled “Planned Parenthood, Community Health Centers, And Women’s Health: Getting the Facts Right.” ‘A claim that community health centers readily can absorb the loss of Planned Parenthood clinics amounts to a gross misrepresentation of what even the best community health centers in the country would be able to do were Planned Parenthood to lose over 40 percent of its operating revenues overnight as the result of a ban on federal funding.’ “Here are some more facts: For every patient served by a community health center today, nearly three residents of low-income communities remain without access to primary health care. By voting for a sudden cutoff in funding, we would create an immediate health care access crisis for millions of women, placing enormous strain on community health centers and other providers. And community health centers offer women’s health services as part of comprehensive primary care programs. They cannot simply put their other responsibilities aside. “With so many of our nation’s community health servers already struggling to meet the needs of our most vulnerable communities, the last thing we should be doing is making their job harder. “On top of all this, Senator McConnell has already said that Senate Republicans do not have the votes to pass this bill and it will never reach the President’s desk. So what are we doing here? This is not a rhetorical question. We are literally six legislative days away from another government shutdown and instead of talking about how we are going to keep the doors open, we are wasting time with this politically-driven legislation that does nothing to make the country better. “The other bill before us, H.R. 3504 is not a simple restatement of the current born-alive law, which I voted FOR when the original bill was considered in this House 15 years ago. “No, this bill fundamentally interferes with the sacred doctor-patient relationship. It undermines doctors’ clinical judgement and tells them how to provide medicine. Or else they will face criminal penalties. “This bill is a solution in search of a problem. We already have strong federal and state laws that protect babies “born-alive”. “The bottom line is that these anti-women’s health bills would limit women’s access to safe, legal reproductive health care. Congress should be governing responsibly and working to solve the real issues our country faces. We should be focused on growing our economy, creating jobs, protecting access to health care, increasing college affordability, and building a better future. Instead, 30 conservative House Republicans have decided to take government funding hostage. The American people deserve better. “And finally, let’s be clear and be honest about one thing. The debate we’re having today, really, isn’t about the quality care provided by Planned Parenthood. That’s not what’s at the heart of all this. This is an effort by my friends on the Republican side to pursue their agenda of criminalizing and outlawing abortion in every circumstance. “Many of my colleagues on the other side have been very vocal about the fact that they want to criminalize abortion, even in cases of rape or incest. They would criminalize the doctors. That’s what this is all about. Trying to force their narrow agenda down the throats of the American people. “I would say to my colleagues that we ought to reject this and get down to the business of governing this country. This is not what we should be doing here today. This is an insult to women. This is an insult to the good people who work at Planned Parenthood who provide excellent care to millions of people across the country. And frankly, it’s an insult to the American people that with six legislative days left before you shut the government down, this is what you choose to bring to the floor.” ###
09.12.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) hosted the second of a series of meetings with his 2015 Congressional Youth Cabinet at the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife in Westborough. The event included a presentation about, and tour of, the new Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife net zero field office and a roundtable discussion on the effects of climate change and the possibilities presented by renewable energy sources. “Today’s meeting with our Congressional Youth Cabinet was another great opportunity to hear directly from our local high school students on the issues that matter most to them,” Congressman McGovern said. “With this program, high school students from across Central Massachusetts are gaining hands-on experience researching public policy issues and learning how to contribute to the democratic process. “Climate change is one of the most important issues our country faces and today’s roundtable was a great discussion,” McGovern added. “Talking about opportunities for our communities to work together with businesses and elected leaders to promote renewable energy, I know that this generation is ready to lead. I am so grateful to all of our local high schools who are preparing these students for bright futures and look forward to continuing to work with them through this program.” Open to all students in the Massachusetts Second Congressional District, the Congressman’s Congressional Youth Cabinet is comprised of local high school juniors nominated by their school districts to participate in this innovative program. The Cabinet meets several times throughout the year to discuss topics chosen by the students. Local high schools currently represented in Congressman McGovern’s youth cabinet are Leicester High School, North Brookfield High School, Abby Kelley Foster Charter School, Millbury High School, Bancroft School, Grafton High School, Worcester Technical High School, Doherty High School, South High School, Claremont Academy, Burncoat High School, University Campus Park School, Belchertown High School, Claremont Academy, Westboro High School, Mahar Regional High School, and Mahar Regional High School. ###
09.12.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined local leaders for Worcester’s 40th Anniversary Pride Parade. The event celebrates the progress the LGBT equality movement has achieved – including this year’s Supreme Court decision legalizing marriage equality in all 50 states – and the role of Massachusetts as a trailblazer in the movement. Click here for photo. “Today I was proud to join our local leaders for Worcester Pride to celebrate the progress our country has made for LGBT equality,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am especially proud to celebrate the role Massachusetts has played as a trailblazer in this movement, becoming the first state in the nation to legalize marriage equality in 2004. “This year’s historic Supreme Court ruling legalizing same-sex marriage across the country was an incredible victory,” McGovern added. “But we know our work will not be finished until every LGBT American knows that they will never lose their job, lose their home, or live in fear because of who they are and who they love. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress as we continue to fight for LGBT equality. Thank you to everyone in Worcester who joined us to celebrate today.” Joining Congressman McGovern today were Worcester Mayor Joseph Petty and Worcester City Manager Edward M. Augustus, Jr., who served as Grand Marshal for this year’s parade, as well as many other local business and community leaders. ###
09.11.2015	Tomorrow, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will join local leaders for Worcester’s 40th Pride Parade. The event will celebrate the progress the LGBT equality movement has achieved – including this year’s Supreme Court decision legalizing marriage equality in all 50 states – and the role that Massachusetts has played as a trailblazer in the movement. Congressman McGovern joined other Massachusetts leaders earlier this year in applauding the historic Supreme Court victory for LGBT couples, saying he was “especially proud to be from Massachusetts – the first state in the nation to legalize marriage equality in 2004” and adding that “our work will not be finished until we know that every LGBT American knows that they will never lose their job, lose their home, or live in fear because of who they are and who they love.” Joining Congressman McGovern will be Worcester Mayor Joseph Petty and Worcester City Manager Edward M. Augustus, Jr., who will serve as Grand Marshal for this year’s parade, as well as local business and community leaders. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) Worcester Mayor Joseph M. Petty Worcester City Manager Edward M. Augustus, Jr. Local Businesses and Community Leaders WHAT: 40th Worcester Pride Parade WHERE: Worcester Common and City Hall, 455 Main Street, Worcester, MA WHEN: Tomorrow, September 12th at 12:00PM to 12:30PM ###
09.11.2015	Tomorrow, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will host the second of a series of meetings with his 2015 Congressional Youth Cabinet at the Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife in Westborough. The Congressman and his Congressional Youth Cabinet will be treated to a presentation about, and tour of, the new Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife net zero field office and then participate in a roundtable discussion on the effects of climate change and the possibilities presented by renewable energy sources. Open to all students in the Massachusetts Second Congressional District, the Congressman’s Congressional Youth Cabinet is comprised of local high school juniors nominated by their school districts to participate in this innovative program. The Cabinet meets several times throughout the year to discuss topics chosen by the students. Local high schools currently represented in Congressman McGovern’s youth cabinet are Leicester High School, North Brookfield High School, Abby Kelley Foster Charter School, Millbury High School, Bancroft School, Grafton High School, Worcester Technical High School, Doherty High School, South High School, Claremont Academy, Burncoat High School, University Campus Park School, Belchertown High School, Claremont Academy, Westboro High School, Mahar Regional High School, and Mahar Regional High School. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) Massachusetts Division of Fisheries leaders Local High School Students in 2015 Congressional Youth Cabinet WHAT: Congressman McGovern’s Youth Cabinet Roundtable on Climate Change WHERE: Massachusetts Division of Fisheries and Wildlife, 1 Rabbit Hill Road, Westborough, MA WHEN: Tomorrow, September 12th at 9:00AM to 10:30AM ###
09.10.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and the 2nd highest-ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, spoke on the House floor to urge approval of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), a historic agreement to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. Congressman McGovern called out the House Republican leadership for upending what was supposed to be a serious and straightforward debate and instead forcing a series of votes meant to drag out the process and appeal to their conservative base. Video here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “Today, the House should have already completed several hours of debate on the Iran Deal. Instead, we have before us a convoluted process with 3 measures that won’t go anywhere in the Senate and will never reach the President’s desk […] House Republicans have cooked up a series of votes to needlessly drag this process out and appeal to their conservative base “We all know how serious the Iran nuclear agreement is for the security of the Middle East, the United States and the world. And after reading and listening to many diverse views, I believe it is the strongest available option to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon and prevent yet another war. “These negotiations were never meant to solve all the problems we have with Iran. Their purpose was clear from the beginning: to shut down the pathways available to Iran to develop and produce a nuclear bomb. Period. Quite simply, is it better to have an Iran capable of producing a nuclear weapon by early next year? Or is it better to shut down that capability for the next 10 or 15 years, and even longer? “I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in opposing this rule, in supporting the resolution approving this historic agreement, and in rejecting both the Roskam and the Pompeo bills that seek to delay its implementation. This is a good deal and it deserves our support.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Click here for video of speech. As Prepared For Delivery: “I rise today in strong support of the Iran nuclear agreement and in strong opposition to this convoluted rule and process. “Today, the House should have already completed several hours of debate on the Iran Deal. Instead, we have before us a convoluted process with 3 measures that won’t go anywhere in the Senate and will never reach the President’s desk. “The fact is that the President has the votes to move this historic agreement forward. We should be having a serious debate and moving toward a vote in a timely fashion. Instead, House Republicans have cooked up a series of votes to needlessly drag this process out and appeal to their extremist base. “We all know how serious the Iran nuclear agreement is for the security of the Middle East, the United States and the world. And after reading and listening to many diverse views, I believe it is the strongest available option to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon and prevent yet another war. “These negotiations were never meant to solve all the problems we have with Iran. Their purpose was clear from the beginning: to shut down the pathways available to Iran to develop and produce a nuclear bomb. Period. Quite simply, is it better to have an Iran capable of producing a nuclear weapon by early next year? Or is it better to shut down that capability for the next 10 or 15 years, and even longer? And let me be clear – the agreement is set up to ensure that Iran remains a nuclear weapon-free state, with mechanisms for inspections and verifications that remain permanently in place. “I know that some hope that a ‘better deal’ might somehow be re-negotiated if we just keep increasing sanctions and threaten – or even use – military force against Iran. But we already know that 10 years of sanctions and military threats only gave us a significant increase in Iran’s nuclear capacity and the number of centrifuges needed to produce weapons-grade enriched uranium. “Only when serious negotiations began two years ago did we see Iran’s program stopped and then rolled back. The final agreement degrades even further Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear weapon, blocks all pathways for Iran to acquire the materials needed to develop a bomb, and imposes the most comprehensive inspections regime of any nuclear arms control agreement to date. In return, Iran will receive sanctions relief that is phased in over the next decade, dependent on Iran’s compliance. “Do I trust Iran? Certainly not. Iran doesn’t trust us either. But again, that’s the whole point of negotiations: For nations that don’t trust one another to sit down and hammer out a deal that all parties can live with and abide by. As Nelson Mandela is credited with saying, “the best weapon is to sit down and talk.” This means compromise, for all parties to get something out of the final agreement. For Iran, that’s sanctions relief; for the world, that means an Iran without a nuclear weapon. It is not based on trust; it is based on tough inspections and verification. “This is not an accord between just the U.S. and Iran. Six of the world’s major powers – Russia, China, France, Germany, the UK and the U.S. – hammered out this deal with Iran. If the U.S. walks away now, we will never be able to put the pieces back together, or get these nations to take a risk with us again. “Without this agreement, Iran could simply return to developing – and possibly even use – a nuclear weapon? After two years of arduous negotiations, why would the U.S. insult the very nations whose cooperation and commitment we need to ensure Iran’s compliance? Why would we undermine our international standing as a good faith negotiating partner? Not just on this agreement, but on every other negotiation we are engaged in now and in the future? “I do not believe the IAEA inquiry into Iran’s past nuclear activities is a side deal. It is its own separate bilateral agreement. It neither affects nor delays the P5+1 agreement’s rigorous inspections and verification process, or Iran’s obligation to significantly degrade and dismantle its nuclear infrastructure before getting any sanctions relief. “But quite frankly, the U.S. long ago reached its own conclusions about Iran’s nuclear activities. We believed that if left unchecked, Iran would soon acquire enough weapons-grade plutonium and highly-enriched uranium to make a nuclear bomb. It’s why we approved U.S. nuclear-related sanctions and supported similar international sanctions. And it’s why the White House began serious, multilateral negotiations with Iran to cut off every pathway Iran might have to make a nuclear weapon. “And we were successful! “My support for the comprehensive agreement is not something I give reluctantly or grudgingly. I am proud to support this deal and to cast my vote in support of the resolution of approval. “I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in opposing this rule, in supporting the resolution approving this historic agreement, and in rejecting both the Roskam and the Pompeo bills that seek to delay its implementation. This is a good deal and it deserves our support.” ###
09.09.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House floor to highlight the connection between addressing hunger in the United States – impacting 49 million Americans – and supporting healthy families. McGovern recognized Massachusetts organizations like Worcester County Food Bank, Community Harvest Project, and Community Servings for their efforts to treat hunger as a health issue and help families in need. Video here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “Supporting healthy families and strong communities starts with access to healthy food, but for many families, it’s a struggle just to put food on the table. And a growing body of research shows why we should all be concerned with hunger as a health issue. “For the 49 million Americans who struggle with food insecurity – or hunger – access to nutritious foods – and enough healthy food -- is a real challenge that can have serious negative health consequences far beyond just a growling stomach. “Hunger can exacerbate underlying medical conditions like diabetes, heart disease and cancer and can result in life-threatening complications. Not only that, hunger can result in more trips to the emergency room and more hospitalizations which only increases health care costs across the board. “When families don’t have enough to eat, their health suffers. We hear time and time again that the current monthly SNAP benefit is inadequate. That families must scramble to cobble together enough to eat from food pantries and charities. “As Members of Congress, we talk a lot about finding ways to save money in our health care system. In that same conversation, we need to do a better job of understanding that food is medicine. That we can’t just address hunger and health as two separate issues. They’re two sides of the same coin. “Hunger is a health issue. And it should be treated as such. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Click here for video of speech. As Prepared For Delivery: “Supporting healthy families and strong communities starts with access to healthy food, but for many families, it’s a struggle just to put food on the table. And a growing body of research shows why we should all be concerned with hunger as a health issue. “For the 49 million Americans who struggle with food insecurity – or hunger – access to nutritious foods – and enough healthy food -- is a real challenge that can have serious negative health consequences far beyond just a growling stomach. “Hunger can exacerbate underlying medical conditions like diabetes, heart disease and cancer and can result in life-threatening complications. Not only that, hunger can result in more trips to the emergency room and more hospitalizations which only increases health care costs across the board. “A recent article in the Canadian Medical Association Journal found that households with low food security had 49 percent higher health care costs than those who didn’t have to worry about where their next meal was coming from. And, health care costs were an astonishing 121 percent higher for those with very low food security. “Similarly, a 2014 article in the journal Health Affairs reported that hospitals saw a 27 percent increase in hypoglycemia cases among low income individuals at the end of the month as compared to the beginning of the month. “You might wonder why that is. The sad truth is that these cases of hypoglycemia – or low blood sugar – are likely more prevalent at the end of the month because this is when SNAP benefits run out for many individuals and families. “When families don’t have enough to eat, their health suffers. We hear time and time again that the current monthly SNAP benefit is inadequate. That families must scramble to cobble together enough to eat from food pantries and charities. “Seniors are especially vulnerable to hunger as a health issue. Many seniors live on fixed incomes and are often faced with the tough choice of paying for their medications or paying for food. For seniors, taking medication on an empty stomach can be especially dangerous and may land them in the hospital. “It is astounding that some of America’s most vulnerable families must face these challenges month after month, year after year. “But the good news is that hunger can also be one of the most “treatable” health conditions. Hunger is solvable. We have the resources. We just need to muster the political will to end hunger now. “One organization that has for years been doing incredible work to reframe the paradigm of hunger as a health issue is Community Servings, a Massachusetts-based non-profit that delivers free meals to homebound individuals and their families. Their meals are “medically tailored” to meet the specific dietary needs of the recipients. “The Community Servings model addresses two of the biggest barriers that low income individuals who are dealing with extended illness face: shopping for food and preparing meals. Community Servings takes care of that so patients can focus on getting better without worrying about where their next meal is coming from. “The Community Servings model shows great promise in not only fighting hunger but also in saving money in our health care system. A survey last year of doctors and nurses who care for Community Servings’ clients found that 96 percent said the meals improved their clients’ health and 65 percent said they believed the meals had resulted in fewer hospitalizations. “We also need to do a better job of connecting our hospitals and community health centers and VA hospitals with farmers markets. “Organizations like Wholesome Wave are effectively expanding their Fruit and Vegetable Prescription Program, where doctors can write a “prescription” for fruits and vegetables that individuals can then immediately “fill” at a farmers market that might be set up on the hospital grounds one or two days a week. “Boston Medical Center has addressed hunger as a health issue head on with its Preventive Food Pantry permanently located in the hospital itself. Here, low income families can work with a dietician to choose foods that meet their dietary needs with an emphasis on fresh fruit and vegetables. “And food banks and food pantries are finding innovative ways to partner with local farms to provide more fresh produce to low-income families. I’m proud to represent one such forward-thinking partnership in my congressional district. Every year, the Community Harvest Project, run through a local farm in Grafton, Massachusetts, donates hundreds of thousands of pounds of fresh fruits and vegetables to the Worcester County Food Bank. “And finally, we ought to do a better job of educating doctors and nurses about what hunger looks like. I’m always surprised when I talk to medical students that they only take one or two – if any – classes in nutrition. “That’s why I’m proud to be a cosponsor of my friend Congressman Tim Ryan’s bill – the ENRICH Act – which would provide grants to improve nutrition education among health care professionals. “As Members of Congress, we talk a lot about finding ways to save money in our health care system. In that same conversation, we need to do a better job of understanding that food is medicine. That we can’t just address hunger and health as two separate issues. They’re two sides of the same coin. “Hunger is a health issue. And it should be treated as such. “We can and should do more to end hunger now.” ###
08.31.2015	PHILLIPSTON, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will join federal, state, and local leaders to announce that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded the Phillipston Fire Department $65,360 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) to support their operations and safety. The grant will allow the Phillipston Fire Department to purchase needed protective gear like helmets, gloves, coats, and boots. “Investing in our first responders is essential to keeping our communities safe and this grant will help support the great work Chief Stevens and the Phillipston Fire Department are doing,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to the Department of Homeland Security for this grant and to Senator Gobi, Representative Whipps-Lee, and Selectmen John Telepciak for being such strong partners for our local communities. Every day, the brave service of our Phillipston firefighters and their families helps to keep Phillipston safe and I am glad that this award will allow them to purchase the equipment they need to continue this important work.” Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s event were DHS Regional Fire Program Specialist David Parr, Phillipston Fire Chief Richard Stevens, Phillipston Selectmen John Telepciak, State Senator Anne Gobi (Spencer), and State Representative Susannah Whipps-Lee (Athol). The primary goal of the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) is to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. MORE PHOTOS ###
08.28.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) has named the University of Massachusetts Amherst as the lead institution in New England for its national Flexible-Hybrid Electronics (FHE) Manufacturing Innovation Institute, a $75 million federal initiative to create a competitive, effective and sustainable research-to-manufacturing collaboration between U.S. industry and academia to solve problems in advanced manufacturing. “With this award, UMass Amherst is once again showing why it is a national leader in the cutting-edge research that will power the 21st century economy,” Congressman McGovern said. “Advanced manufacturing has seen tremendous growth in recent years and Massachusetts is well-positioned to seize this moment. Supporting strong public-private partnerships like this are key to creating the good-paying jobs Massachusetts families need. I am grateful to work side by side with such strong partners at the local, state and federal level to recognize the incredible work of UMass Amherst and other Massachusetts schools and look forward to seeing all that they will accomplish with this exciting opportunity.” The Commonwealth of Massachusetts played a major role in the successful proposal, pledging matching capital funds to support specific projects as they earn federal monies. UMass officials estimate first-year federal funding to be about $5 million, with a total of $40 million to $50 million invested in the project’s New England node from combined federal, state and private sources over five years. UMass Amherst will anchor the regional initiative, joined by academic partners MIT, UMass Lowell, Harvard and Northeastern University and partners in private industry. Joining Congressman McGovern in celebrating the funding for UMass Amherst and other Massachusetts schools were Governor Charlie Baker, Senate President Stan Rosenberg, UMass Amherst Chancellor Kumble Subbaswamy, and UMass President Marty Meehan. “Leveraging Massachusetts’ incredible research universities to produce revolutionary flexible manufacturing breakthroughs will help provide cutting-edge technology for our troops, and a foundation for advanced manufacturing growth in the Commonwealth,” said Gov. Charlie Baker. “This partnership showcases the strength of our manufacturing sector, the unique assets at UMass Amherst, and the depth of expertise in our world-class educational institutions. I look forward to working with UMass, MIT, Harvard, Northeastern, and the Department of Defense as we continue to push the limits of technology, and build a platform for economic growth across the Commonwealth.” “The flexible hybrid electronics grant award to UMass Amherst illustrates that the university is a national leader in research, innovation and technology,” said Senate President Stan Rosenberg. “With this additional funding UMass Amherst will continue developing technologies and products, through public-private partnerships, that will grow advanced manufacturing in Massachusetts, build upon the success of our life sciences industry, and move our economy forward. Congratulations to the university on winning this very competitive grant.” “The federal government’s choice of UMass Amherst to lead this cutting-edge research initiative is due in large part to the vision of Governor Charlie Baker and his administration, the leadership of Senate President Stan Rosenberg and our friends in the state Legislature, and the support of Congressman Jim McGovern and the entire Massachusetts congressional delegation,” said Chancellor Kumble Subbaswamy. “The flagship campus, through the power of our research, is committed to partnering with the state and with private industry to address the Commonwealth's critical needs. Today’s announcement will lead to breakthroughs in advanced manufacturing that will expand the boundaries of the our state’s innovation economy and benefit all of the citizens of Massachusetts.” UMass President Marty Meehan said, “The selection of UMass Amherst to lead New England’s R&D effort in this emerging field of technology demonstrates the university’s national prominence and its importance as a catalyst for the state’s future economic growth. The Commonwealth, under Governor Baker’s leadership, played a critical role by making a major investment in this partnership, in a period when securing federal research dollars is increasingly competitive. This historic success demonstrates what's possible when our public and private universities, state government and private industry combine their talents and resources in a partnership to help create new economic opportunities for our citizens.” The new electronics being created in this partnership take tasks now performed by more expensive, rigid devices based on silicon-based semi-conductor chips found in computers and other devices and over time replaces them with less expensive components including sensors printed on a thin ribbon of plastic in a roll-to-roll manufacturing facility like the one at UMass Amherst. Thus a skin patch could continuously sense the health of a wearer including monitoring glucose levels or biomarkers for stress, fatigue or disease. Or, another type of sensor could monitor a mechanical component such as a rotor blade or bridge support and communicate its status in real time. Researchers say the range of applications is very broad for high-performance devices on flexible patches, fabrics and films. UMass Amherst’s contribution will include new processes and materials and a unique roll-to-roll manufacturing research and demonstration facility featuring state-of-the-art technology and new, emerging processes that will enable future generations of printed and hybrid devices. The hybrid devices, which will include both printed and silicon chip-based components, provide a bridge between today’s technology and fully printed devices. This will be part of the New England Node of DOD’s Flex-Hybrid National Network for Manufacturing Innovation (NNMI) Institute. The NNMI program was launched after President Barack Obama signed the Revitalize American Manufacturing Act in December 2014. The institute’s hub, or headquarters, will be in Silicon Valley, California, home of the Flex Tech Alliance, the nation’s leading flexible electronics industry trade group and UMass Amherst’s partner in bidding for the DOD award. ###
08.27.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has awarded the Worcester Fire Department $2.7 million in a Staffing for Adequate Fire & Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant. “With this grant, the Worcester Fire Department will have the resources they need to be able to hire additional firefighters and continue to protect our families and neighborhoods,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to FEMA for making this investment in our community and to all of our Worcester firefighters and their families for the sacrifices they make to help keep all of us safe.” The $2.7 million award over two years will fund 17 of the 30 new firefighters whose positions were appropriated in the latest budget. The purpose of the grant is to allow cities and towns to preserve the number of firefighters in department ranks, and to accordingly enhance both response time and preparedness. Joining Congressman McGovern in celebrating the federal funding for Worcester firefighters were Senator Elizabeth Warren, Worcester Mayor Joseph M. Petty, Worcester City Manager Edward M. Augustus, Jr., and Worcester Fire Chief Geoffrey Gardell. “This fire grant is terrific news for Worcester,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said. “This federal funding recognizes the outstanding work of Mayor Petty, Chief Gardell, and the entire Worcester Fire Department, and I am very glad it will help keep hardworking firefighters on the job protecting our communities.” “Maintaining strong public safety staffing levels for our police and fire departments has been a priority of our city. This grant will be used to partially fund the new class of thirty firefighters that will be going through the academy soon,” said Worcester Mayor Joseph M. Petty. “These are the men and women who keep us safe and we need each and every one of them.” “Worcester firefighters provide their community with world-class protection 24 hours a day, every day. This grant will help us maintain a full complement of firefighters and allow the Worcester Fire Department to uphold those high standards,” said City Manager Edward M. Augustus, Jr. “I want to thank our federal legislators for their consistent advocacy and FEMA for these vital funds that will help keep Worcester safe.” “This is great for the Worcester Fire Department. With the recent retirements we’ve seen the new class of firefighters will help us to maintain our current staffing levels for the next two years,” said Fire Chief Geoffrey Gardell. The Worcester Fire Department and Bridgewater Fire Department both received SAFER grants in this round of funding; Bridgewater received 1.6 million dollars. The grant is awarded by the Department of Homeland Security through the Federal Emergency Management Agency. ###
08.26.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement after his visit to the Centro Las Americas’ Latino Elder Program to serve lunch to local seniors and to honor Dolly Vasquez for her 23 years of service to the Latino community in Worcester County. “Today I am privileged to honor Carmen ‘Dolly’ Vazquez as she retires from Centro Las Americas after 23 years of service to the Latino community in Worcester. Every day, Centro Las Americas’ Latino Elder Program is helping to enrich the lives of Worcester’s senior community and I cannot think of a better place to honor Dolly’s many contributions to Worcester. “Born and raised in Puerto Rico, Dolly later came to Central Massachusetts and began her cultural involvement in Worcester by volunteering at WCUW community radio station. At WCUW, she hosted a bi-weekly radio show, Herencia Puertoriqueña for 13 years. “Dolly was first hired in 1993 by Centro Las Americas to help manage their Latin American Festival, and she was later asked to head the organization’s new Cultural Department. Since that Dolly she has co-produced the annual Latin American Festival, the annual Latino Film Festival and the biennial Viva El Arte art show. “Here in Worcester, Dolly has been an active member of our community through her involvement with Hispanics Achieving and Celebrating Excellence of QCC, and Latino Dollars for Scholars. I want to thank Dolly for her years of service to Worcester County and I wish her the best of luck in the future. She is a remarkable person who has done so much for the community. I’m also proud to call her a close and treasured friend.” The Centro Las Americas’ Latino Elder Program offers many low-income Seniors ages 60 and over who reside in the city of Worcester and Southbridge the opportunity of socialize, meet new people of different cultures, learn about health issues, English class, computer class, advocacy, health screenings, consumer protection and case management. ###
08.25.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) completed his fourth annual cross-district farm tour to meet with local farmers in Central and Western Massachusetts to highlight the success of our region’s agricultural industry and the “Buy Local” movement in growing the region’s economy. Today as Congressman McGovern finished the two-day, 13-stop tour, he visited farms in West Brookfield, Spencer, Leicester, Rochdale, Sutton, and Northbridge. Yesterday, Congressman McGovern visited farms in North Brookfield, Hardwick, Hadley, North Amherst, South Deerfield, and Greenfield. “Every year our local farmers are working hard to bring the freshest crops to our local communities and support our growing agricultural economy here in Central and Western Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “On this year’s farm tour, we hit the road to meet farmers throughout the region to hear firsthand about the amazing work they’re doing. Some of our family farms have been around for more than 100 years and some just recently started. All of them are playing a vital role. “By encouraging more people to buy local, we can support our local farmers, increase access to fresh fruits and vegetables, keep our communities healthy, and grow our region’s economy,” McGovern added. “I’m grateful to the USDA, our Massachusetts leaders, and all of our local partners who joined us for this year’s farm tour. Strong farms make strong communities and together, we are working to ensure that all of our local farmers have the support they need to continue to make Massachusetts a leader in sustainable agriculture for generations to come.” Today, Congressman McGovern met with local producers of vegetables, dairy, and meat, and also met with non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations. Joining Congressman McGovern on the tour today were USDA State Director for Rural Development Scott Soares, Secretary Matthew Beaton of the Massachusetts Department of Energy and Environmental Affairs, and Commissioner John Lebeaux and Deputy Commissioner Jason Wentworth of the Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources. Massachusetts has made great strides in establishing itself as a national leader in the “Buy Local” movement and in the expansion of value-added agriculture. Congressman McGovern's annual farm tour provided the opportunity to learn more about the local food economy and to hear directly from farmers, specialty producers, and retail outlets that source and sell locally-grown food and farm ingredients. August 25 – Day 2 of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour: 8:30-9:30AM: Visit to Ragged Hill Orchard, 94 John Gilbert Road, West Brookfield 10:00-11:00AM: Visit to Royal Crest Farm, 30 Howe Road, Spencer 11:10-12:10PM: Visit to Breezy Gardens, 1872 Main Street, Leicester 12:25-1:25PM: Visit to Cooper’s Hilltop Farm, 515 Henshaw Street, Rochdale 1:45-2:45PM: Visit to Whittier Farms, 86 Douglas Road, Sutton 3:00-4:00PM: Visit to Foppema Farm, 1605 Hill Street, Northbridge Click here for info about Day 1 of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour. MORE PHOTOS ###
08.24.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) kicked off his annual cross-district agricultural tour to meet with local farmers in Central and Western Massachusetts to highlight the success of our region’s agricultural industry and the “Buy Local” movement in growing the region’s economy. On the first day of the farm tour, Congressman McGovern is visiting farms in North Brookfield, Hardwick, Hadley, North Amherst, South Deerfield, and Greenfield. “Today, I’m excited to be meeting with so many of the local farmers who are helping to grow our economy here in Central and Western Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “From new farmers helping to expand what Massachusetts grows to generations-old family farms that are still going strong today, it’s inspiring to see the passion that goes into the tremendous crops and dairy products our region produces. “With close to 8,000 farms in Massachusetts and nearly $500 million in agricultural products every year, it’s clear that our farmers are playing a vital role in keeping our economy strong and growing. Our ‘Buy Local’ movement has helped to propel Massachusetts to 6th in the nation in number of farms with Community Supported Agriculture,” McGovern added. “I’m looking forward to another great day tomorrow as we continue the farm tour to meet with more of our great local farms to hear about how they’re helping to grow our agricultural economy here in Massachusetts.” Today, Congressman McGovern met with local producers of vegetables, dairy, and meat, and also met with non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations. Joining Congressman McGovern on the tour today were USDA State Director for Rural Development Scott Soares and Commissioner John Lebeaux and Deputy Commissioner Jason Wentworth of the Massachusetts Department of Agricultural Resources. Massachusetts has made great strides in establishing itself as a national leader in the “Buy Local” movement and in the expansion of value-added agriculture. Congressman McGovern looks forward to the opportunity to learn more about the local food economy and to hear directly from farmers, specialty producers, and retail outlets that source and sell locally-grown food and farm ingredients. August 24 – Day 1 of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour: 8:30-9:30AM: Visit to Hanson Farm, Smith and Hanson Road, North Brookfield 9:45-10:45AM: Visit to Clover Hill Farm, 1096 Barre Road, Hardwick 11:00-12:00PM: Visit to Robinson Farm, 42 Jackson Road, Hardwick 1:00-2:00PM: Visit to Boisvert Farm & The North Hadley Sugar Shack, 181 River Drive (Rte.47), Hadley 2:10-3:10PM: Visit to Simple Gifts Farm, 1089 North Pleasant Street, North Amherst 3:25-4:25: Visit to Atlas Farm, 218 Greenfield Road, South Deerfield 4:45-5:45: Visit to Just Roots 34 Glenbrook Drive, Greenfield Click here for info about Day 2 of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour. MORE PHOTOS ###
08.21.2015	PRINCETON, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined the Appalachian Mountain Club, Mass Audubon, and other state and local groups to hike the Midstate Trail to highlight the importance of fully funding the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). The LWCF helps to protect and preserve the Midstate Trail and other sites in Massachusetts and across the country – ensuring families continue to have access to our country’s natural areas. The LWCF is set to expire September 30, 2015 and Congressman McGovern is pushing for its reauthorization and strong funding. Click here to view photos online. “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is one of our country’s most successful land conservation and outdoor recreation programs. The Midstate Trail and so many other sites in Massachusetts and across the country have benefitted tremendously from stateside funding to preserve open space, maintain hiking trails, and develop recreation facilities,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am proud to support the incredible work of LWCF and I will fight to make sure that it’s reauthorized and funded at the highest possible level.” Congressman McGovern is a longtime supporter of the Land and Water Conservation Fund. In 1999, McGovern successfully led the effort to restore funding to the stateside portion of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, despite repeated attempts to defund the program. Joining McGovern on today’s hike were John Judge, President and CEO of the Appalachian Mountain Club, and Gary Clayton, Mass Audubon’s Acting President and VP for Conservation Programs. “Thanks to Congressman Jim McGovern's steadfast support of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the Midstate Trail and many other lands and trails in Massachusetts have been protected as treasured outdoor recreational resources,” said John Judge, President and CEO, Appalachian Mountain Club. “With the Land and Water Conservation Fund set to expire in September, the Midstate Trail as one of the preeminent hiking trails in central Massachusetts makes a strong case for reauthorization and full funding of this critical source of future conservation funding.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is America’s most important tool for protecting lands within our national parks, forests, refuges, and other federal lands and for acquiring and maintaining our state and local parks and forest and wildlife areas,” said Gary Clayton Mass Audubon’s Acting President and VP for Conservation Programs.“From the Cape Cod National Seashore and Minuteman National Historic Park, to Wompatuck and Massasoit State Parks, to important areas like the Quabbin Reservoir and the Silvio Conte & Parker River Wildlife Refuges, LWCF funding has helped acquire and protect some of Massachusetts’s most unique public and historic landscapes.” Also joining today’s event were members of the Appalachian Mountain Club, Mass Audubon, North County Land Trust, Mid State Trail Committee, Princeton Land Trust, Princeton Open Space Committee, and the Nashua River Watershed Association. The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) was created by Congress in 1965 as a bipartisan commitment to protect natural areas, water resources and our cultural heritage, and to provide recreation opportunities to all Americans. LWCF uses revenues from offshore oil and gas to support conservation. Every year, $900 million in royalties paid by energy companies drilling for oil and gas on the Outer Continental Shelf are put into this fund. MORE PHOTOS ###
08.21.2015	On Monday, August 24th and 25th, U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (MA-02) will host a cross-district agricultural tour to meet with farmers in Central and Western Massachusetts to highlight the success of our region’s agricultural industry and the “Buy Local” movement in growing the region’s economy. Congressman McGovern will meet with local producers of vegetables, dairy, and meat, and will also meet with non-profit farming organizations and community development corporations. McGovern will be joined by Scott Soares, USDA State Director for Rural Development; Secretary Matthew Beaton, Mass. Department of Energy and Environmental Affairs; Jason Wentworth, Deputy Commissioner of the Mass. Department of Agricultural Resources; John Lebeaux, Commissioner of the Mass. Department of Agricultural Resources, and other local, state and federal leaders. Massachusetts has made great strides in establishing itself as a national leader in the “Buy Local” movement and in the expansion of value-added agriculture. Congressman McGovern looks forward to the opportunity to learn more about the local food economy and to hear directly from farmers, specialty producers, and retail outlets that source and sell locally-grown food and farm ingredients. Congressman McGovern will see firsthand the impact of local, state and federal programs and discuss additional ways that government at all levels can support the Massachusetts food economy. A Full List of Congressman McGovern’s Massachusetts Farm Tour is below: August 24 – Day 1 8:30-9:30AM: Visit to Hanson Farm, Smith and Hanson Road, North Brookfield 9:45-10:45AM: Visit to Clover Hill Farm, 1096 Barre Road, Hardwick 11:00-12:00PM: Visit to Robinson Farm, 42 Jackson Road, Hardwick 1:00-2:00PM: Visit to Boisvert Farm & The North Hadley Sugar Shack, 181 River Drive (Rte.47), Hadley 2:10-3:10PM: Visit to Simple Gifts Farm, 1089 North Pleasant Street, North Amherst 3:25-4:25: Visit to Atlas Farm, 218 Greenfield Road, South Deerfield 4:45-5:45: Visit to Just Roots 34 Glenbrook Drive, Greenfield August 25 – Day 2 8:30-9:30AM: Visit to Ragged Hill Orchard, 94 John Gilbert Road, West Brookfield 10:00-11:00AM: Visit to Royal Crest Farm, 30 Howe Road, Spencer 11:10-12:10PM: Visit to Breezy Gardens, 1872 Main Street, Leicester 12:25-1:25PM: Visit to Cooper’s Hilltop Farm, 515 Henshaw Street, Rochdale 1:45-2:45PM: Visit to Whittier Farms, 86 Douglas Road, Sutton 3:00-4:00PM: Visit to Foppema Farm, 1605 Hill Street, Northbridge For more info and to RSVP, please contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
08.14.2015	HAVANA, CUBA – Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement after joining U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and other members of Congress for the official re-opening of the U.S. embassy in Havana, Cuba. “Today I was proud to join Secretary Kerry for the re-opening of the U.S. Embassy here in Cuba. This marks the beginning of a new chapter in U.S.-Cuba relations that leaves the Cold War behind and embraces the power of diplomacy. “As a witness to this historic step for our two nations, I urge my fellow members of Congress to put politics aside and seize this moment. We should lift the trade embargo with Cuba and build on the progress made here today. “Normal relations provide us with greater prospects to engage directly with a diverse range of Cuban society. Together, we can create new opportunities for American businesses, increase travel and exchanges, and support efforts in Cuba to advance political and economic reforms and promote human rights. “I want to thank President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their leadership to help make today possible. “Today, the U.S. and Cuba are united in saying we are ready to create a better future for our countries and our people. Now is the time for Congress to lead.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion in the push to normalize U.S.-Cuba relations. In December 2014, when President Obama first announced the new U.S.-Cuba policy, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry to welcome home Alan Gross, the American aid worker who was released from Cuba the same day. Joining Congressman McGovern for the U.S. embassy opening in Cuba today were Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), and Karen Bass (D-CA). ###
08.13.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that tomorrow, August 14, he will join U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and other members of Congress for the official re-opening of the U.S. embassy in Havana, Cuba. This follows the re-opening of the Cuban embassy in Washington, D.C. in July and President Obama’s December 2014 announcement of the normalizing of U.S.-Cuba relations. “On Friday, the U.S. will begin a new chapter in our relationship with Cuba. By re-opening the U.S. embassy in Havana, we are ready to officially end the failed Cold War policy of isolation and embrace the power of diplomacy,” Congressman McGovern said. “With a more open relationship between our two countries, we can work together to expand economic opportunity, support democratic reforms, and strengthen human rights. I am grateful to President Obama and Secretary Kerry for their leadership on this important policy and look forward to joining Secretary Kerry in Havana for this historic moment.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion in the push to normalize U.S.-Cuba relations. In December 2014, when President Obama first announced the new U.S.-Cuba policy, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry to welcome home Alan Gross, the American aid worker who was released from Cuba the same day. Joining Congressman McGovern for the U.S. embassy opening in Cuba will be Senators Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ), and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA), Steve Cohen (D-TN), and Karen Bass (D-CA). ###
08.07.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, joined Senators Ron Wyden (D-OR) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) to announce a bipartisan push to block the sale or transfer of certain arms to Bahrain until the State Department certifies that Bahrain has fully implemented all of the recommendations by an independent oversight commission to strengthen human rights in the country. Congressman McGovern will introduce legislation in the House when Congress returns next month and Senators Wyden and Rubio introduced companion legislation in the Senate earlier this week. “As a world leader, America has a responsibility to strengthen human rights at home and abroad. The recent renewal of U.S. military aid to Bahrain – a country that continues to repress its own people – is extremely concerning,” McGovern said. “If the U.S. is truly committed to regional stability, we must push allies like Bahrain to embrace policies that will strengthen free societies, not silence entire segments of their population. This is the only way to combat extremism. That is why I plan to introduce this important legislation to block the sale of certain arms to Bahrain until they take the strong steps needed to improve human rights in their country. I am proud to partner with Senators Wyden and Rubio on this important effort and urge my colleagues to support this bill when Congress returns.” “This legislation sends the clear message U.S. arms should not aid and abet the Bahraini government’s continued repression of its own people. It is deeply troubling that the State Department has decided to lift its ban on certain arms sales to Bahrain while it continues to torture and imprison peaceful political protesters,” Wyden said. “Senator Rubio and I plan to push hard to pass this bill and reverse this distressing decision.” “The Bahraini government’s ongoing repression of its citizens is unacceptable, and the U.S. should not be providing weapons which could be used to suppress peaceful dissent until the government adopts meaningful political reforms,” Rubio said. “The State Department has made a grave error in looking the other way on human rights in Bahrain, and Congress should reverse this decision.” The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry was established in 2011 to examine the government of Bahrain’s violent crackdown on peaceful protestors. The BICI report contained 26 recommendations and the State Department has only identified five of the 26 that Bahrain has fully implemented. Despite this lack of progress on human rights, the State Department recently decided to lift restrictions on certain arms sales to Bahrain. Wyden and Rubio have repeatedly registered serious concerns about Bahrain’s human rights record and the U.S. government’s response. ###
08.07.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) visited the Sutton Senior Center and Food Pantry to serve lunch to Sutton seniors and highlight the center’s efforts to help reduce senior hunger in Worcester County. Click here to see all the photos from today’s event. “Helping to ensure every senior has food on the table is so important. For so many in our community, the Sutton Senior Center and Food Pantry is making a difference and helping to ensure that our seniors don’t go hungry,” Congressman McGovern said. “Today, 1 in 12 seniors in our country faces hunger – that’s 5.3 million seniors who don’t have enough eat. With so many seniors living on fixed incomes, they are often forced to choose between prescriptions and food – or paying their medical bills or heating their homes. “I am proud of the work the Sutton Senior Center and Food Pantry is doing to help end senior hunger right here in Massachusetts,” McGovern added. “I am grateful to Michelle Edelstein and the wonderful team here for all that they do to help our community and look forward to continuing to work with them to make hunger history.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion of efforts to reduce hunger for seniors and families in need throughout Massachusetts and across the country. Earlier this summer, Congressman McGovern kicked off his 2nd annual Summer Food Rocks Tour to support USDA and Massachusetts officials’ efforts to ensure that low-income students have access to healthy meals while school is out for summer. Read more about Congressman McGovern’s efforts to end hunger here. MORE PHOTOS ###
08.06.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) honored Vietnam veteran Bob LaRose, a Worcester native who served two tours of duty before returning to Worcester to serve with the Worcester Fire Department for 40 years. “Today we are proud to honor Bob LaRose, a Worcester native and Vietnam veteran, for a lifetime of service,” Congressman McGovern said. “When our Vietnam veterans returned home, medals were the last thing on their mind. Ceremonies like this are a wonderful opportunity for us to recognize their brave service. “After Bob’s first tour of duty in Vietnam, he volunteered for a second tour so that his brother wouldn’t have to fight,” McGovern added. “When he returned home, Bob continued to serve our community as a Worcester firefighter and did so for 40 years from 1971 to 2011. With the medals we are presenting today, we express are deep gratitude for decades of truly selfless service to our community here in Worcester and to our country.” At today’s event, Congressman McGovern presented the following medals to LaRose: Army Commendation Medal with three stars Army Medal of Good Conduct (Two medals for serving twice) Vietnam Service Medal with bronze star attachment (Two medals for serving twice) Rep. Of Vietnam Campaign Ribbon with Device Meritorious Unit Commendation Expert Badge and Rifle Bar LaRose enlisted to serve in the Vietnam war in 1967 and after his first tour, he volunteered to return to for a second tour when the Infantry Battalion was called up so that his brother wouldn’t have to fight. After returning from Vietnam, LaRose served as a Worcester firefighter for 40 years from 1971 to 2011. LaRose also helped people with disabilities by contributing to the Carpenters Local 107 with their ramp program. Since 2006 this program has built 137 ramps for disabled people in Worcester County. LaRose also volunteers every other Wednesday with the Friends of Treasure Island Program working on carpentry projects. LaRose lives in Worcester and has four adult children; Bobby, Brian, Michelle, and Tim; and eight grandchildren. ###
08.06.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) toured the EcoTarium, a science and nature museum located in Worcester. Congressman McGovern’s visit focused on the role of the museum as an important educational resource in Central Massachusetts. On the tour, Congressman McGovern discussed the EcoTarium’s role in providing STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) learning opportunities in collaboration with partners, including Worcester Public Schools, National Geographic and others through the National Science Foundation. “With EcoTarium’s rich history of close to 200 years in Worcester, the museum has always been a vital part of our community,” Congressman McGovern said. “Preparing the next generation of scientists and engineers starts with a strong education and EcoTarium is helping to inspire students throughout Worcester with its interactive exhibits and programs. EcoTarium has been a strong partner for Worcester Public Schools and so many in our community and I am grateful to Joe Cox and the museum’s great team for all they do.” Joseph P. Cox, EcoTarium president, said, “It was a delight to host the Congressman for a tour of the EcoTarium, and to show off our gorgeous new Nature Explore® Outdoor Exhibit on this beautiful day. His continuing support of STEM education is an inspiration for us all, and we remain grateful for all he continues to do to ensure Central Massachusetts and its cultural assets are brought to national attention.” Founded in 1825, the EcoTarium is the nation’s second oldest natural history society whose mission is to inspire a passion for science and nature. The EcoTarium provides a blend of interactive exhibits, hands-on activities, educator-led programming, community events, and is an important educational resource for the Central Massachusetts. The EcoTarium is positioning itself for the museum’s 200th anniversary in 2025, ensuring that the EcoTarium remains an educational resource for generations to come. MORE PHOTOS: ###
08.05.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat, issued the following statement in support of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear program. “Keeping Americans safe must be the first priority of Congress and a nuclear-armed Iran poses a grave threat to the United States, Israel, and countries around the world. Since this agreement was submitted to Congress, I have carefully reviewed the details, attended classified briefings with White House and State Department officials, met with nuclear experts, and heard from constituents – both those who are in favor of and opposed to the agreement. Above all else, this deal must be judged on its merits and whether it is the strongest available option to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. I firmly believe that it is. “With a strong set of comprehensive restrictions, this agreement will take the clear and concrete steps needed to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. The diplomatic solution before us is not perfect, but it provides the robust framework we need to monitor Iran’s nuclear program and ensure that it remains peaceful. This agreement would establish the most intrusive inspections regime ever negotiated. And if Iran cheats, this agreement ensures that the consequences will be severe and that the United States and our allies will have the power to re-impose sanctions. “One thing that must be clear is that this agreement looks at Iran with clear eyes and does not underestimate the danger it poses to the region and global security. The agreement will keep in place current sanctions for Iran’s support of terrorism and human rights abuses. And it is precisely because the Iran regime poses such a danger that preventing them from obtaining a nuclear weapon is so important. “Some have suggested that this agreement should include the release of American political prisoners currently held in Iran, but that would be the wrong approach. These innocent Americans should be released by Iran unilaterally and should not be treated as bargaining chips. Such an approach would only give Iran and other countries an incentive to capture other Americans traveling abroad. I will continue to work with my House colleagues and the Administration for the release of these Americans and we will not rest until they are home with their families. “Some opponents claim this deal will only delay when Iran would be able to build a nuclear weapon. The truth is that by enacting this deal, we will be able to ensure that Iran will be much further away from a weapon than they are now. Closing all pathways for Iran to produce a nuclear weapon for the next 10 to 15 years is a far superior choice to simply walking away from this deal and accepting the status quo of no limits on Iran’s nuclear program. “In fact, the end of some commitments in 10 to15 years will not re-open the door to an Iranian nuclear weapon and additional tools that the deal gives us will endure for 20 or 25 years. And under the requirements of this agreement, a range of inspections and monitoring of nuclear-related materials have no end date. Simply put, this deal makes a permanent prohibition on Iran having a nuclear weapons program and establishes a permanent inspections regime that goes beyond any previous inspections regime ever in place in Iran. “The bottom line is that this agreement keeps all options on the table and takes the strong steps needed to neutralize Iran’s nuclear program while preventing the unthinkable alternative of yet another war in the Middle East. By embracing the power of American diplomacy, this agreement will disable Iran’s nuclear program and gives the United States and our allies the tools we need to hold them accountable for years to come. “With this agreement, we have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to block Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and significantly strengthen global security. When this agreement comes before Congress I will support it because it will help to keep Americans safe. I urge my colleagues to join me.” ###
08.04.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Worcester) and Worcester Mayor Joe Petty released the following statements in response to the shooting of a mother and her 2-year-old child Monday night in Plumley Village on on Everett Gaylord Boulevard in Worcester. “I am heartbroken by last night’s tragic shooting of a mother and young child in Worcester,” Congressman Jim McGovern (D-Worcester) said. “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their family. I am grateful to the medical professionals who have helped to stabilize the condition of the mother and child and to the law enforcement officials working tirelessly to bring the perpetrator to justice. I am shocked by this unthinkable violence. Now is a time for Worcester to come together as a community to understand how this happened and how we can prevent this violence from happening again." “This kind of violence cuts our City to the core, particularly when the victims are a toddler and mother—the very definition of innocent bystander. Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their family tonight,” Worcester Mayor Joe Petty said. “Every incidence of violence should shock us and outrage us. Every time we hear about another gun victim we should stop in our tracks and ask how we as a City can do better. We owe it to our neighbors to take this outrage and join together and say, enough. We will work together at all levels of government to ensure that our public safety officials have the support and resources they need. To be clear, the full weight of the Worcester Police Department will be put behind finding the shooter and taking them off the streets. ###
08.04.2015	On Thursday, August 6, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will tour the EcoTarium, a museum of science and nature located in Worcester. Congressman McGovern’s visit will focus on the role of the museum as an important educational resource in Central Massachusetts. Founded in 1825, the EcoTarium is the nation’s second oldest natural history society whose mission is to inspire a passion for science and nature. The EcoTarium provides a blend of interactive exhibits, hands-on activities, educator-led programming, community events, and is an important educational resource for the Central Massachusetts. The EcoTarium is positioning itself for the museum’s 200th anniversary in 2025, ensuring that the EcoTarium remains an educational resource for generations to come. Congressman McGovern will discuss the EcoTarium’s role in providing STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) learning opportunities in collaboration with partners, including Worcester Public Schools, National Geographic and others through the National Science Foundation. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) Joe Cox, EcoTarium President Ray Quinlan, Chair of EcoTarium’s Board of Trustees Susan Foley, EcoTarium Trustee and Capital Campaign Co-Chair Pat Crawford, EcoTarium Deputy Director Linda McGowan, EcoTarium Director of Institutional Advancement WHAT: Tour of EcoTarium Museum to Highlight Science Education Programs WHERE: EcoTarium, 222 Harrington Way, Worcester, MA 01604 WHEN: Thursday, August 6, 10:30AM – 12:00PM For more info and to RSVP, please email Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
08.04.2015	On Monday, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, led 65 Democrats in a letter to the U.S. State Department to support the ongoing peace process in Colombia and to urge all parties at the negotiating table in Havana, Cuba to put victims’ rights and needs at the center of talks. Addressed to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and U.S. Special Envoy to Colombia Bernard Aronson, the letter praises their efforts to provide timely support to the negotiations and the critical initial phases of implementation, should a peace accord be concluded in the coming months “We were very concerned over the escalation of hostilities that took place between late May and early July,” the lawmakers wrote in the letter coordinated by Reps. McGovern and Sam Farr (CA). “It is clear that both sides in the armed conflict are still capable of inflicting harm on each other. However, it is the Colombian people – and especially rural, indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities – who suffer the most from such continued acts of violence and sabotage. “Colombia does not need to add more victims to the toll accrued over half a century,” the lawmakers added. “We therefore welcome the recent announcement by the Government and the FARC to negotiate a bilateral ceasefire agreement on an accelerated timeline and end the violence that so afflicts communities throughout Colombia. We also believe this will help create confidence in the ability of the negotiating parties to reach a final agreement in the coming months. “We further support the work the two parties have been carrying out together to begin demining territory contaminated by anti-personnel landmines, unexploded ordnance and improvised explosive devices,” the lawmakers concluded. “These concrete collaborations improve the lives of civilians living in or near these areas and demonstrate the potential for peacebuilding […] you can count on our continued support as the peace negotiations continue and, hopefully, conclude successfully in the coming months.” The Members of Congress encouraged the Colombian peace negotiators to reach agreements that satisfy the needs of victims, are inclusive of disadvantaged sectors of society, and break with Colombia’s long history impunity. Read the full letter online here. Spanish translation of the letter here. The full text of the letter is below: August 3, 2015 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State Bernard Aronson Special Envoy on Colombia Dear Secretary Kerry and Special Envoy Aronson, We write to express our strong support for the on-going peace process in Colombia and for your efforts to provide timely support to the negotiations and the critical initial phases of implementation, should a peace accord be concluded in the coming months. We also ask that you share this letter with the two negotiating teams in Havana so that they are also aware of our support and the issues we outline below. We believe the commitment by the government and guerrilla negotiating teams to accelerate the timeline and conclude the negotiations in the coming months is an important and welcome decision. We were very concerned over the escalation of hostilities that took place between late May and early July. It is clear that both sides in the armed conflict are still capable of inflicting harm on each other. However, it is the Colombian people – and especially rural, indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities – who suffer the most from such continued acts of violence and sabotage. It is for these communities that we express our greatest concern and solidarity. Colombia does not need to add more victims to the toll accrued over half a century. We therefore welcome the recent announcement by the Government and the FARC to negotiate a bilateral ceasefire agreement on an accelerated timeline and end the violence that so afflicts communities throughout Colombia. We also believe this will help create confidence in the ability of the negotiating parties to reach a final agreement in the coming months. We further support the work the two parties have been carrying out together to begin demining territory contaminated by anti-personnel landmines, unexploded ordnance and improvised explosive devices. These concrete collaborations improve the lives of civilians living in or near these areas and demonstrate the potential for peacebuilding. We recognize that the remaining agenda items under negotiation, which deal with victims of the conflict, transitional justice and ending the conflict, are complex and difficult. We urge you to convey to the negotiating parties our encouragement that these final agreements be inclusive, in particular to the views, needs and priorities of sectors of Colombian society that have been most affected by the conflict, yet also most excluded from decisions on how to repair the social, economic, political, community, familial, emotional and psychological damage they suffer. In particular, we emphasize the direct engagement and involvement of women, Afro-Colombians, Indigenous Peoples, campesino organizations and the internally displaced in the review of these chapters before they are finalized. These sectors will carry the greatest burden in the effort to reinforce and restore peace, reconciliation and reconstruction. There should be a space for them at the table to determine whether the accords genuinely respond to their needs, hopes, priorities and capacities. We also urge that the rights and needs of victims take center stage. In matters of transitional justice, we expressly urge that there be strong and verifiable mechanisms to ensure that victims are guaranteed the right to the truth, reparations and justice, as well as the critical commitment that such acts of violence will not be repeated in the future. We also wish to express, in the strongest possible terms, our concern that the final accord not contribute to Colombia’s long and tragic history of impunity. It is not our place, nor do we intend to impose upon the negotiators what might be the best system or combination of sanctions, punishments, deprivation of liberty or alternative sentencing. We strongly believe, however, that they must break, not reinforce, Colombia’s culture of impunity. Indeed, ending impunity is fundamental to ensuring the guarantee of no repetition. Secretary Kerry and Special Envoy Aronson, we respectfully ask that you convey our support for the peace process and the matters outlined in this letter to President Juan Manuel Santos, the members of the Colombian government and FARC negotiating teams in Havana, Cuba, and to any other key officials within the Colombian government you believe might be interested. Please know that you can count on our continued support as the peace negotiations continue and, hopefully, conclude successfully in the coming months. ###
07.31.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), a senior House Democrat and leading champion of normalizing diplomatic relations with Cuba, released the following statement on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s call today for Congress to end the U.S. trade embargo with Cuba: “Americans are ready for a 21st century approach to Cuba and the re-opening of embassies in Washington and Havana is a strong step. Now it’s time for Congress to take the next step by ending the U.S. trade embargo with Cuba. “The trade embargo has been in place for more than half a century and the simple truth is that this outdated Cold War policy has not worked. “Lifting the trade embargo would open new markets for American businesses and farmers and open Cuba to new ideas, new values, and build a foundation to strengthen human rights. “Close to three-quarters of Americans (72 percent) strongly support ending the trade embargo with Cuba. With strong bipartisan support for lifting the trade embargo – Democrats (82 percent), Independents (72 percent), and Republicans (59 percent) – this is a no-brainer. “It’s time for us to continue the progress made by the historic diplomatic breakthrough between the U.S. and Cuba, led by President Obama and Secretary Kerry. “I applaud Secretary Clinton for calling on Congress to lift the U.S. trade embargo and join her in urging Congress to take this up when we return in September. Americans want a 21st century approach to Cuba and Congress should listen.” ###
07.30.2015	There is a bipartisan, bicameral effort underway in Congress to encourage the United States and the international community to keep the pressure on wanted war criminal Joseph Kony and his Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) who have been terrorizing Central Africa for over two decades. U.S. Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Joseph Pitts (R-PA), who are co-chairmen of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, introduced a resolution yesterday that condemns Kony and the LRA for the ongoing perpetration of crimes against humanity and urges continued support for the efforts of the U.S., African Union and regional governments to bring Kony and his associates to justice. U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Richard Durbin (D-IL) introduced a companion resolution today in the Senate. “The U.S., Uganda and regional actors have made significant progress in combatting Kony and the LRA, but our work will not be done until they are caught and held accountable for the terrible atrocities they have committed,” McGovern said. “I am proud of the work we have done to protect local communities against LRA violence and provide support to former fighters, especially child soldiers, to recover from their ordeal and reintegrate into their communities. This week, I am pleased to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in introducing this important resolution. We will not rest until Kony and the LRA are brought to justice for their crimes and the families and communities of the region are safe.” “Joseph Kony and his notorious Lord's Resistance Army terrorize the people of Central Africa with their vicious campaign of child abduction, sexual assault, and outright violence toward those who are different from them. They have both killed and abducted thousands of innocent civilians. Congress has a moral duty to speak out against this evil, and the Administration has an imperative to act,” Pitts said. “I had the opportunity to travel the region when Kony and the LRA were actively terrorizing villagers, abducting kids to serve as child soldiers and sending them back to their village to murder and mutilate their families and neighbors. I have seen the physical scars of survivors. I have heard firsthand the stories of those fortunate enough to escape Kony’s clutches. Now that the LRA’s ability to carry out attacks has been dramatically reduced, and it’s leadership is on the run, it is imperative for the protection of basic human rights and the security of the region, that we finish the job by removing Kony and his senior leadership from the battlefield,” Boozman said. “I’ve traveled to Uganda and met with survivors of unspeakable LRA violence,” Durbin said. “I saw firsthand the U.S.-funded programs doing incredible work to help victims and communities recover from the LRA. While the United States and Uganda have made notable progress, we should not stop until the LRA is no longer a threat to the families and communities of that region.” For over 25 years, Kony and his ruthless army have caused untold pain to children and families in central Africa. He and his militia are responsible for a litany of human rights violations including abduction, rape, torture and murder. According to the United Nations, Kony and the LRA are responsible for more than 100,000 deaths over the course of the conflict. They have forcibly recruited thousands of children to be used as soldiers and sex slaves and human rights groups indicate that over two million civilians have been displaced since Kony began terrorizing the region. Since 2011, combat-equipped U.S. forces have been in Central Africa providing technical assistance to the efforts of regional forces that are protecting civilians, encouraging defections from the LRA and trying to bring Kony and his senior leadership to justice. Last year, President Obama increased the U.S. commitment to the mission. Due to the continued efforts of the Regional Task Force of the African Union and U.S. military advisors, killings carried out by the LRA have dropped ninety percent since 2011 and approximately twenty-five percent of the core fighting force of the LRA has defected or otherwise been removed from the battlefield since January 2013. However, attacks began increasing again in 2014 and efforts to protect civilians have been hampered by an inability to reach Kony and other LRA leaders who are believed to be hiding in Kafia Kingi, a Sudanese-controlled enclave on the border of Central African Republic and South Sudan. This has become a safe haven for Kony because regional troops hunting for him have been denied access to the territory. The Boozman-Durbin resolution has bipartisan support as Sens. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Jim Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mike Rounds (R-SD), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Gary Peters (D-MI) and Ed Markey (D-MA) have all signed on as original cosponsors. The bipartisan support for the McGovern-Pitts resolution includes Adam Smith (D-WA), Rodney Davis (R-IL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Randy Neugebauer (R-TX), John Lewis (D-GA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Frederica Wilson (D-FL), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) who have all signed on as original cosponsors. ###
07.30.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation in announcing that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded a total of $19,237,879 in grants to seven Massachusetts fire departments and the Quincy-based Fire Protection Research Foundation. Upton Fire Emergency Medical Services was among the Massachusetts fire departments that were awarded grants to support equipment acquisition, training, and staffing. The Upton Fire Department is currently operating with 28 Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) which have been in service for a significant period of time and have become outdated. This marks the fourth consecutive year that the Upton Fire Department has requested a grant to replace SCBA equipment with new air packs that meet modern safety and functional standards. “Our communities are safer thanks to the brave service of our local firefighters," Congressman McGovern said. "With these grants, we are making a strong investment in our Massachusetts firefighters, ensuring they have the tools and resources they need to protect our families and neighborhoods. I join my colleagues across the Commonwealth in thanking our Massachusetts firefighters and fire chiefs for their tireless service and the sacrifices they make every day to keep all of us safe.” Grants were also awarded to were awarded to the, Duxbury Fire Department, Halifax Fire Department, Lawrence Fire Department, Fall River Fire Department, Boston Fire Department, and Bourne Fire Department. Joining Congressman McGovern in today’s announcement were United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey, and Representatives Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and Bill Keating. ”Firefighters put themselves in harm's way every day to protect our neighborhoods and keep our families safe,” said Senator Warren. “These grants will help ensure that Massachusetts' fire departments have the staffing, tools and resources they need to do their jobs safely and effectively. Our fire chiefs and their departments deserve credit for their efforts to get these grants, and I want to thank them for their tireless service to the community.” “Massachusetts is the Bay State, and our firefighters and first responders make it the Brave State,” Senator Markey said. “This federal funding will help our fire departments across the Commonwealth keep their communities safe and secure with the equipment and support they need. I congratulate the recipients for all of their efforts securing these grants and express my gratitude for their service on the front lines keeping Massachusetts safe.” “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day and they need proper equipment and training to do their jobs. The Fire Prevention & Safety grant will allow Quincy's Fire Protection Research Foundation to continue its critical work to address challenges in the fire industry, including fire detection and firefighter safety,” said Congressman Lynch. “In addition, the federal funding for the Boston Fire Department will provide necessary tools to keep Boston's families and firefighters safe. This grant is a direct result of the hard work and commitment of Mayor Marty Walsh, Commissioner Joseph Finn, and the entire Boston Fire Department.” “The Lawrence Fire Department received these needed federal funds through a competitive grant process, which speaks to both the quality of their application and the Department in general,” Congresswoman Tsongas said. “Given the constraints on state and local budgets, competitive grant funds such as these help to maintain public safety in our communities and provide first responders with access to the resources they need to save lives. Our volunteer and career firefighters sacrifice a great deal to protect our communities and it is our duty to provide them with the equipment and training they need to keep their departments running safely and efficiently.” “One of the most important impacts our government can have is providing our first responders with the most modern, efficient equipment available,” said Congressman Keating. “The benefits of grants to firefighters are seen day in and day out in the lives saved and the communities protected.” The following grants were announced today through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG), Fire Prevention & Safety (FP&S), and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant programs: Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) Upton Fire Emergency Medical Services - Upton, MA - Federal Share: $173,334.00, for operation and safety Duxbury Fire Department - Duxbury, MA -Federal Share: $166,667.00, for vehicle acquisition Halifax Fire Department - Halifax, MA -Federal Share: $714,210.00, for vehicle acquisition Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Lawrence Fire Department - Lawrence, MA - Federal Share: $1,181,222.00, for hiring Fall River Fire Department - Fall River, MA - Federal Share: $2,060,920.00, for hiring Boston Fire Department - Boston, MA - Federal Share: $12,778,650.00, for hiring Bourne Fire Department - Bourne, MA -Federal Share: $1,333,104.00, for hiring Fire Prevention & Safety (FP &S) Fire Protection Research Foundation - Quincy, MA - Federal Share: $829,772.00, for research and prevention The AFG and SAFER grant programs are administered by FEMA to ensure that local fire departments and nonaffiliated emergency medical service organizations have the staffing, resources and equipment they need to protect communities and emergency personnel from fires and other related hazards. The FP&S grants support projects that help protect firefighters and the public, including research into firefighter safety. More information on the AFG, SAFER, and FP&S grant programs is available here. ###
07.29.2015	Today, Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Joe Pitts (R-PA) – Co-Chairmen of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission – released the following joint bipartisan statement regarding the State Department’s upgrading of Malaysia to a Tier 2 Watch country in its latest Trafficking in Persons report. The move comes as the Obama administration pushes to complete the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal between the U.S. and 11 countries, including Malaysia. Excerpts from the Joint Bipartisan Statement from Congressmen McGovern and Pitts: “This decision could undermine the global fight to end modern-day slavery by leaving the impression that political considerations have been prioritized over basic human rights. “The Administration’s decision to upgrade Malaysia, in spite of Congressional concerns, raises questions about the political impartiality of the report. Malaysia is one of the 12 nations involved in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations and its upgrade to the Tier 2 watch list comes as TPP negotiators seek to pave the way for Malaysia’s participation in the trade pact. “We call on the Department of State to publicly reveal the criteria and factual basis used to justify the upgrade in the ranking in accordance with the Trafficking Victims Protection Act as amended. Finally, we emphasize the need for bold human rights and anti-trafficking policies that can bring about real progress in Asia as the United States seeks closer relations with the region, including through the Trans-Pacific Partnership.” Full Joint Bipartisan Statement from Congressmen McGovern and Pitts is Below: “As Co-Chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, we express our deep disappointment over the State Department’s decision, in the newest State Department Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report, to upgrade Malaysia from the lowest ranking of Tier 3 to a Tier 2 Watch country. This decision could undermine the global fight to end modern-day slavery by leaving the impression that political considerations have been prioritized over basic human rights. “Last July 17th, we were among the 160 Members of Congress who wrote to Secretary Kerry to emphasize the importance of the TIP report, which has become the global gold standard for assessing how well governments are doing in meeting the challenge of human trafficking. At that time, we warned that we saw nothing that would justify upgrading Malaysia’s ranking, and that such a decision could undermine the credibility of the TIP report. The Administration’s decision to upgrade Malaysia, in spite of Congressional concerns, raises questions about the political impartiality of the report. Malaysia is one of the 12 nations involved in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations and its upgrade to the Tier 2 watch list comes as TPP negotiators seek to pave the way for Malaysia’s participation in the trade pact. “The TIP report states that “the Government of Malaysia does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, however, it is making significant efforts to do so.” Yet the report also observes that practices such as “restricted movement, wage fraud, contract violations, passport confiscation and imposition of significant debts by recruitment agents or employers” are widespread, while trafficking convictions in Malaysia declined from 2013 to 2014. These facts are alarming, as Malaysia is a major destination for foreign workers from Indonesia, Bangladesh, the Philippines, Nepal, and Burma, who migrate in search of economic opportunities but become vulnerable to forced labor and sexual exploitation. The Rohingya refugee population within Malaysia is exceptionally vulnerable to trafficking. In May 2015, the discovery of 139 graves in jungle trafficking camps near the border with Thailand sparked international outcry, as did the subsequent revelation that thousands of Rohingya migrants were held ransom in such camps. “We reiterate our disappointment with the Administration’s decision to upgrade Malaysia’s TIP ranking. We call on the Department of State to publicly reveal the criteria and factual basis used to justify the upgrade in the ranking in accordance with the Trafficking Victims Protection Act as amended. Finally, we emphasize the need for bold human rights and anti-trafficking policies that can bring about real progress in Asia as the United States seeks closer relations with the region, including through the Trans-Pacific Partnership.” ###
07.29.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. At a ceremony celebrating the anniversary today, Congressman McGovern joined House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Democrats, and former Congressman John Dingell, who played a leading role in the push to establish Medicare and Medicaid in 1965. Numbers: Medicare and Medicaid play a big role in helping Massachusetts families in Congressman McGovern’s district, which includes cities in Worcester, Hampshire, Franklin, Hamden and Norfolk Counties. In 2013 alone, Medicare helped 106,818 and Medicaid helped 165,526 in the district. “For generations, American families have counted on Medicare and Medicaid for access to affordable, quality health care. Today, we are proud to celebrate the 50th anniversary of President Lyndon B. Johnson signing these critical programs into law. Protecting access to affordable health care is a fundamental American value and Medicare and Medicaid have helped millions of Americans live with the economic security and dignity they deserve. “When Medicare and Medicaid were created in 1965, they were built on the basic principles that access to health care is a right, not a privilege. No one should be forced into poverty because of health care costs. Medicare has helped to change the lives of millions of Americans for the better – helping them to be independent and financially secure, including an estimated 55 million Americans who are receiving benefits today. “Medicaid has been an especially important part of our country’s social safety net, helping close to 70 million Americans today. For senior citizens, persons with disabilities, and children and young adults from working families, Medicaid is helping to transform their lives and ensure that they have access to quality, affordable health care. “Unfortunately, House Republicans are more interested in attacking Medicare and Medicaid. Instead of supporting these critical programs, the Republican Budget would turn Medicare into a voucher program and put insurance companies ahead of seniors and low-income families. Even as we continue to see the benefits of these programs, 21 states continue to refuse to expand Medicaid, leaving millions of their residents without coverage. “As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of these programs, it’s time for us to come together and work in a bipartisan way to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid and protect affordable access to the highest quality care—not play political games with people’s health and wellness. Putting families first should be our top priority in Congress and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that we keep Medicare and Medicaid strong so that Americans will continue to have access to quality, affordable health care for generations to come.” ###
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) spoke on the House floor to highlight the success of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) national Summer Food Service program in providing healthy summer meals to low-income students in Massachusetts. Video here. Congressman McGovern recently kicked off his 2nd Annual Summer Food Rocks Tour – including visits to Worcester, Leominster, Ware, and Orange – to raise awareness about the USDA program, which ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. This summer, USDA plans to serve more than 200 million free meals to children 18 years and under. Families can find Summer Meals in their community by calling the National Hunger Hotline at 1-866-3-HUNGRY or 1-877-8-HAMBRE, by texting "FOOD" to 877-877, or by visiting http://www.fns.usda.gov/summerfoodrocks. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “For millions of low-income students, summer break isn’t as carefree as it should be. For these children, summer is a time of great uncertainty. During the school year, they have access to reliable, healthy school breakfasts and school lunches. But, when school’s out, these children – and their families – are often left scrambling to find enough to eat. “According to Share Our Strength, a leading national partner on summer meals, 43 percent of low-income families say it’s harder to make ends meet during the summer, and they must budget an extra $300 a month for groceries when kids are home from school in the summer. For families already struggling to put food on the table, these can be daunting challenges. “Only 1 in 6 students that gets a free or reduced price school meal receives a summer meal. As we consider the next Child Nutrition Reauthorization bill, we need to ensure that all students who are eligible for school meals have access to free summer meals. And, that states and local communities have the funding and resources they need to reach all eligible children.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Click here for video of speech. As Prepared For Delivery: “On July 17th, I hosted my second annual Summer Food Rocks Tour in my district to bring attention to the importance of summer meals and USDA’s Summer Food Service Program, which ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. “I was honored to be joined on the tour by USDA Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services, Kevin Concannon, as well as many local, state, federal and non-profit partners. "For millions of low-income students, summer break isn’t as carefree as it should be. For these children, summer is a time of great uncertainty. During the school year, they have access to reliable, healthy school breakfasts and school lunches. But, when school’s out, these children – and their families – are often left scrambling to find enough to eat. “According to Share Our Strength, a leading national partner on summer meals, 43 percent of low-income families say it’s harder to make ends meet during the summer, and they must budget an extra $300 a month for groceries when kids are home from school in the summer. For families already struggling to put food on the table, these can be daunting challenges. “Summer should not be a time of increased hunger among our children. “That’s where USDA’s Summer Food Service Program comes in. It’s a federally-funded, state-administered program that reimburses providers who serve healthy meals to children and teens in low-income areas at no charge during the summer. Local sponsors serve meals at community sites on set days and times. Sites may be located in a variety of settings such as schools, recreation centers, parks, community centers, day camps, housing projects and Indian reservations. “My Summer Food Rocks Tour began at the Koziol Elementary School in Ware, Massachusetts. We had the opportunity to serve breakfast and speak with kids and their families about the importance of summer meals. And, Share Our Strength was there to distribute sunglasses to the children, which they all loved. “Our next stop was Fisher Hill Elementary School in Orange, Massachusetts. There, we met with children attending day camp at the school who receive breakfast through the summer meals program. We got a chance to play basketball with the kids. The kids were definitely better than us. “Then, we were off to the Spanish American Center in Leominster, Massachusetts, where we were hosted by the Center’s Executive Director, Neddy Latimer. We participated in a roundtable discussion on the successes and challenges of the summer meals program. We then had the opportunity to tour the Center’s newly constructed kitchen and serve lunch to an enthusiastic group of children. “Our day ended at the Goddard School in my hometown of Worcester,. Under Secretary Concannon led a roundtable discussion on national standards for the school lunch program. During the discussion, we were treated to a delicious lunch prepared by the Worcester Public Schools Nutrition Department. We wrapped up the visit by touring two Worcester Public Schools food trucks and learning more about this innovative mobile meals program that runs throughout the City. “I want to thank everyone who joined me on my Summer Food Rocks Tour, especially Under Secretary Concannon, the site sponsors and volunteers, and the children and families who reminded me why summer meals are really so important. “A child’s need for healthy, nutritious food doesn’t just end when the school year does. We know that providing children access to healthy meals in the summer months has clear health, education and economic benefits. And, since summer meals must be served in a community setting, children have another incentive to participate in summer enrichment and recreation programs that, in turn, help them return to school ready to learn in the fall. “This summer, USDA plans to serve more than 200 million free meals to children 18 years and under at approved summer meals sites. I have no doubt they’ll achieve this ambitious goal. “But there is still a lot of work to be done. USDA estimates that only 1 in 6 students that gets a free or reduced price school meal receives a summer meal. As we consider the next Child Nutrition Reauthorization bill, we need to ensure that all students who are eligible for school meals have access to free summer meals. And, that states and local communities have the funding and resources they need to reach all eligible children.” “An easy way to find a summer meal site near you is to text FOOD to 877-877 or visit USDA’s Summer Food Rocks page online. “Over August recess, I encourage all of my House colleagues to visit a summer meals site in their district. I know you’ll be just as impressed as I was at the incredible work being done right in your own community to ensure that no child goes hungry in the summer. “We can and should do more to End Hunger Now.” ###
07.27.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined Massport and Worcester Regional Airport officials for a tour of the recently-opened and newly renovated Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) station and a tour of aircraft. Congressman McGovern then joined a roundtable with local officials to discuss the station and the airport’s role in growing the Worcester economy. See photos below. “It’s clear that Massport and Worcester Regional Airport are playing a leading role in growing our region’s economy,” Congressman McGovern said. “Bringing federal dollars back to Worcester has been a top priority for me and I am pleased we were able to secure the funding that made the renovation of this station possible. “We have seen a strong revitalization of the airport in recent years. As it continues to grow, the airport is making it easier for our community to travel and has already pumped roughly $350 million into our economy,” McGovern added. “This is just the beginning and I look forward to working with Massport and our local leaders to support the airport’s continued growth and success.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion of the Worcester Airport’s recent revitalization and helped to secure $3 million in funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the airport’s Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) station. Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s event were Tom Glynn, Massport CEO; Ed Freni, Massport Director of Aviation; Robert Donahue, Massport Fire Rescue Chief; Andy Davis, Worcester Airport Director; Rich Bessom, Massport Program Manager – Horizontal Projects; Jon Pope, Massport Program Manager – Aviation; and John Goglia, former National Transportation Safety Board member. ###
07.23.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, spoke on the House floor to urge his colleagues to reject H.R. 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015, a bill which keeps Americans in the dark about which foods contain GMOs. Watch 2 minute video here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “Poll after poll shows that an overwhelming majority of the American people favor mandatory GMO labeling. They want to know what’s in the food they eat and how it’s grown. We should give them what they want. “Yet, the bill before us goes in the opposite direction. It keeps the American people in the dark about whether their food contains GMOs. “64 countries already have GMO labeling. Why can’t we? American food companies already have to label their foods as containing GMOs when they sell them in those countries. Why can’t American consumers have access to that same information? “Keeping consumers in the dark about what’s in their food is the wrong approach. It is a ‘Washington Knows Best’ approach from politicians inside the beltway who think they know better than the American people. I urge my colleagues to vote ‘no’ on H.R. 1599.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Watch 2 minute video here. As Prepared For Delivery: “I have an idea. It’s a radical idea. It’s something that is unprecedented for this Congress. Something that would genuinely surprise the American people. “And that idea is simple – let’s give the American people what they want. “Poll after poll shows that an overwhelming majority of the American people favor mandatory GMO labeling. People want to know what’s in the food they eat and how it’s grown. We should give them what they want. “Yet, the bill before us goes in the opposite direction. It keeps the American people in the dark about whether their food contains GMOs. No wonder Congress is so unpopular. “To the supporters of this “Keep Americans in the Dark” bill – I would ask one simple question: What are you afraid of? “This debate is not about whether GMOs are good or bad. I consume GMOs. My kids consume GMOs. This is about consumers’ right to know what’s in the food they eat. Plain and simple. “As many of my colleagues know, I am passionate about ending hunger both here in this country and around the world. If I thought for one second that GMO labeling would cause food prices to rise, I wouldn't be calling for GMO labeling. This is a scare tactic used by opponents of GMO labeling. “The fact is, companies change their labels all the time for all kinds of reasons. Transportation and commodity prices are drivers of food prices, not labeling. “If you’re worried about 50 states requiring 50 different labels, then support mandatory GMO labeling. Do not override states that have already embraced GMO labeling or consumers who want them. “There are 64 countries already have GMO labeling. Why can’t we? American food companies already have to label their foods as containing GMOs when they sell them in those countries. Why can’t American consumers have access to that same information. “Keeping consumers in the dark about what’s in their food is the wrong approach. It is a ‘Washington Knows Best’ approach from politicians inside the beltway who think they know better than the American people. I urge my colleagues to vote ‘no’ on H.R. 1599.” ###
07.23.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat, spoke on the House floor on H. Res. 370, the rule on H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act. The bill is opposed by the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Criminal Justice Association, the Major Cities Chiefs Association, the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities, and many more. Watch full video here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “H.R. 3009 paints itself as the remedy […] But it does nothing to address how to improve communication between our law enforcement, immigration, prosecutors, and penal institutions. “Instead, H.R. 3009 chose to penalize local law enforcement agencies […] when they prioritize working with immigrant communities in order to keep neighborhoods, cities and towns safe..[I]t deliberately and cynically undermines their ability to protect their communities, nurture public trust in the police and our legal system, and strengthen public safety. "This bill reeks of prejudice. It isn't mean to solve any problem, it's meant to punish cities that don't embrace the views of anti-immigrant extremists. It's mean to demonize all immigrants as criminals. “This House continues to wait and wait for the Republican majority to show some leadership and bring up a comprehensive immigration reform bill. It’s been more than two years since the Senate passed a strong, bipartisan immigration reform bill and we’re still waiting for House Republicans to act…[T]his bill is just more of the same, old, divisive Republican anti-immigrant formula. America is better than this.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Watch full video here. As Prepared For Delivery: “I rise in opposition to this closed rule. This process is an absolute outrage. I also rise in strong opposition to H.R. 3009. “Along with all my colleagues and every American, my heart goes out to the family of Kathryn Steinle. The murder of every innocent person is a tragedy, and after each such heinous crime, we always ask ourselves could this have been avoided? Could we have done something differently? “H.R. 3009 paints itself as the remedy to Kathryn Steinle’s death. But it does nothing to address how to improve communication between our law enforcement, immigration, prosecutors, and penal institutions. Nor does it improve the protocols and practices of how decisions are made on the release or transfer of a prisoner against whom ICE has lodged a detainer request. “Instead, H.R. 3009 chose to penalize local law enforcement agencies, strip them of their federal grants and funding, when they prioritize working with immigrant communities in order to keep neighborhoods, cities and towns safe. Republicans would rather demonize these cities and local law enforcement agencies and force them to squander scarce local resources on immigration enforcement instead of local policing. In effect, H.R. 3009 will make our cities and communities less safe, rather than more secure. “This is why law enforcement and city governments oppose this bill – it deliberately and cynically undermines their ability to protect their communities, nurture public trust in the police and our legal system, and strengthen public safety. H.R. 3009 is opposed by the Major County Sheriffs’ Association, the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Criminal Justice Association, the Major Cities Chiefs Association, the U.S. Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities. “This bill reeks of prejudice. It isn’t meant to solve any problem. It’s meant to punish cities that don’t embrace the views of anti-immigrant extremists. It’s meant to demonize all immigrants as criminals. It means to punish any city, any police officer, any sheriff and any cop-on-the-beat who challenges the Republican anti-immigrant orthodoxy of “Hate-them-all” and “Deport-them-all” – deport the DREAMers, deport the parents of U.S. citizens, deport children fleeing violence, deport, deport, deport. “This House continues to wait and wait for the Republican majority to show some leadership and bring up a comprehensive immigration reform bill. It’s been more than two years since the Senate passed a strong, bipartisan immigration reform bill and we’re still waiting for House Republicans to act. What we need is a way to bring 11 million of our neighbors, friends, colleagues, small business owners, and hard-working residents out of the shadows. Let them register, be documented, and not fear talking with the police. And let us recognize their achievements and contributions to the American way of life. “This bill had no hearings, no mark-up, no input from local law enforcement, no regular order. In fact, in the topsy-turvy world of the Republican House, the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration Subcommittee is holding its first hearing on this topic today, this morning, when this bill is already here on the House floor for debate and votes later today. “No, this bill is just more of the same, old, divisive Republican anti-immigrant formula. America is better than this. I urge my colleagues to reject this closed rule and to oppose the underlying bill.” ###
07.22.2015	In a letter sent today to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined eight members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation in calling on the agency to take action to support broader access to the opioid overdose prevention treatment, naloxone. There has been much documented success preventing fatalities with the use of naloxone by medical professionals and first responders, and there has been a recent movement to expand access to the overdose treatment for use by trained community and family members, who are most likely to be present during an opioid overdose. More than 1,000 people died of an opioid overdose last year in Massachusetts. Joining Congressman McGovern were Senators Ed Markey and Elizabeth Warren and Reps. Michael Capuano, Katherine Clark, Seth Moulton, William Keating, Joe Kennedy, and Richard Neal. “The routine practice of distributing naloxone or co-prescribing naloxone with prescriptions for opioid painkillers may help to get naloxone into households that may otherwise not have easy access to this life-saving antidote,” write the lawmakers in the letter to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell. “Thousands of Americans who are currently taking prescription opioid painkillers, whether legitimately for the treatment of pain or illicitly without doctor supervision, could potentially be saved from accidental overdose by having wider access to naloxone.” The letter to HHS can be found HERE. In the letter, the lawmakers call on HHS to explore issuing recommendations that could be used to institute best practices for co-prescribing naloxone with opioid painkillers and examine establishing demonstration programs, encouraging federally-funded health centers to adopt policies for co-prescribing, and reducing payment barriers for naloxone coverage and reimbursement. ###
07.22.2015	On Friday, July 17, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) hosted his 2nd annual Summer Food Rocks Tour to bring attention to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) national Summer Food Service program and highlight how it assists low-income students in Massachusetts. The Congressman was honored to be joined on the tour by USDA Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Kevin Concannon as well as numerous local, state, federal and not-for-profit partners. The tour included stops in Ware, Orange, Leominster, and Worcester. See event photos online here. “A child’s need for healthy, nutritious food doesn’t just end when the school year does,” Congressman McGovern said. “With our second annual Summer Food Rocks Tour, I’m excited to be working with our national, state, local and not-for-profit leaders to ensure that every eligible family that requires access to food this summer knows that this program is available. Helping all of our students have a healthy and productive summer is so important. We should do everything we can to ensure that no child goes hungry simply because school is out. I’m proud to see this program continue to make a big difference for our communities. I hope that through this tour, eligible families who do not participate will decide to give it a try.” “Children are particularly vulnerable to hunger and poor nutrition, especially when school is out,” said Kevin Concannon, USDA Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition & Consumer Services. “That’s why this summer, we’ve set a goal of serving 200 million meals nationally; it was encouraging to see the great work being done in Massachusetts to help to reach as many children and teens as possible. USDA is happy to see strong partnerships work diligently to ensure no child goes hungry.” The USDA Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. This summer, USDA plans to serve more than 200 million free meals to children 18 years and under at approved SFSP sites. In addition to USDA Under Secretary Concannon, Congressman McGovern was joined on the tour by national, state, local and not-for-profit leaders including; USDA Regional Administrator Food and Nutrition Service Kurt Messner; Acting Director for Nutrition Health and Safety Programs for the MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Rob Leshin; Director of Child Nutrition Outreach Programs for the MA Department of Elementary and Secondary Education Ashley Krebs, EOS Foundation Director Christy Mach Dubé, representatives of Share Our Strength, Project Bread, the Leominster Spanish American Center, the Montachusett Opportunity Council and The Worcester County Food Bank, as well as numerous state and local elected officials, educational leaders, and food service managers from across Massachusetts. Photos from kickoff of Congressman McGovern’s Summer Food Rocks Tour can be found here. Below is a brief description of each event on Friday’s tour and the state and local leaders who attended: WARE: Tour of Summer Food Service Program at Kaziol Elementary School in Ware, MA In Ware, the Congressman and his guests served breakfast to youngsters and spoke with family members about the importance of the SFSP program. Share Our Strength distributed sunglasses to the children which were enjoyed by all. See photos. ORANGE: Tour of Summer Food Service Program at Fisher Hill Elementary School in Orange, MA In Orange, the Congressman and his guests had the opportunity to spend time with children attending camp at Fisher Hill Elementary School who had enjoyed a SFSP breakfast before taking to the basketball court and playing outside with bubbles provided by Share our Strength. See photos. LEOMINSTER: Roundtable Discussion of Summer Food Rocks Program and Tour of Spanish American Center in Leominster, MA In Leominster, the Congressman and his guests were hosted again this year by Neddy Latimer, Executive Director of the Spanish American Center. Participants discussed the successes achieved by, and the challenges to be addressed by, the SFSP program. The group then toured the newly constructed kitchen at the Spanish American Center and served lunch to an enthusiastic group of children. See photos. WORCESTER: Roundtable discussion of National Standards for School Lunch Program and Tour of Worcester Public Schools Food Truck: At the Goddard School, Congressman McGovern hosted a roundtable discussion of national standards for the school lunch program facilitated by USDA Under Secretary Concannon. During the discussion, guests were treated to a delicious lunch prepared by the Worcester Public Schools Nutrition Department. After the roundtable, participants were able to tour two Worcester Public Schools food trucks and discuss the successes achieved by this innovative program. See photos. ###
07.22.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, led the floor debate for House Democrats on the rule on H.R. 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015. Video here. Today’s debate comes on the heels of Congressman McGovern’s Boston Globe op-ed with Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01), which calls for making GMO labeling mandatory across the country to create one national standard. Read the Boston Globe op-ed here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “At the center of the debate about this bill is Americans’ fundamental right to know what’s in the food they eat and how it’s grown. I believe people ought to have that right. Plain and simple. “This isn’t a debate about the science behind GMOs…[W]hether you love GMOs or hate them, you ought to know if the food that you’re feeding your family is made from them. “Americans have told us loud and clear that they want to know what’s in their food. Poll after poll indicates widespread support for labeling GMOs…[T]o the supporters of HR 1599 – I would simply ask, “What are you afraid of? Why is giving the American people more information about their food such a bad idea?’” “So let me suggest to my colleagues a radical idea: Give the American people what they want.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Watch full video here. As Prepared For Delivery: “I rise today to strongly oppose H.R. 1599, the Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act of 2015, one of the most misnamed pieces of legislation I think we’ve considered this year. “I believe at the center of the debate about this bill is Americans’ fundamental right to know what’s in the food they eat and how it’s grown. I believe people ought to have that right. Plain and simple. “This isn’t a debate about the science behind GMOs. That’s a separate debate. But whether you love GMOs or hate them, you ought to know if the food that you’re feeding your family is made from them. “The Food and Drug Administration requires labeling of thousands of ingredients, additives and processes, many of which have nothing to do with safety or nutrition. For example, the FDA requires mandatory labeling of juice when it’s from concentrate. Food labels are a simple and reliable way to tell people what’s in their food and how it’s made. “Americans have told us loud and clear that they want to know what’s in their food. Poll after poll indicates widespread support for labeling GMOs. A recent poll by The Mellman Group found that 91 percent are in favor of labeling with 81 percent saying they “strongly” prefer GMO labeling. Support for labeling cuts across party identification, gender, age – you name it. “And three states – Vermont, Maine and Connecticut – have listened to their citizens and passed laws requiring that GMO foods be labeled. And dozens more are considering similar initiatives, including my home state of Massachusetts. “Now, I understand the concern with 50 different states passing 50 different state labeling laws. I get it. That’s why I support mandatory GMO labeling. We need a national standard that eliminates confusion and puts the American people in charge. “But, unfortunately, the bill before us only adds to the confusion. It codifies the existing voluntary labeling system for GMO foods that hasn’t worked and hasn’t provided consumers the information they want. It preempts states from responding to consumer demand and requiring GMO labeling and it invalidates state laws already in place. And, it continues to allow foods that contain GMOs to be labeled as ‘natural’ despite the fact that 60 percent of Americans believe that “natural” means GMO-free. “I have a stack of letters here from a variety of organizations opposed to H.R. 1599 – the National Farmers Union – representing family farmers and ranchers across the country, the Consumers Union, National Black Farmers, and 125 CEOs and business leaders from Massachusetts and across the country including: Whole Foods Market Co-CEO Walter Robb Chipotle CEO and Chairman Steve Ells Clif Bar Inc. CEO Kevin Cleary Newman’s Own Organics Co-Founder Nell Newman, Panera Bread Inc. CEO Ron Shaich Patagonia Inc. CEO Rose Marcario American Sustainable Business Council CEO and Cofounder David Levine Sweetgreen Inc. Co-Founder Nicolas Jammet Chef and Founder of the Think Food Group José Andrés Craft Hospitality CEO and well-known chef Tom Colicchio, and many, many others. “The supporters H.R. 1599 oppose mandatory GMO labeling, claiming that GMO labeling would increase food prices for consumers. This is just, simply untrue. I want to read a section of a letter from the CEO of Ben and Jerry’s that proves that point: ‘As an ice cream company that operates in more than 30 countries, many of which require mandatory GMO labeling, we are not swayed by arguments that mandatory labeling will be expensive. The truth is, we regularly make changes, sometimes big, sometimes small to our packaging. ‘Every year, we make changes to between 25% and 50% of our packaging. Over the last 7 years, we've gone through three full line redesigns. In other words, we have changed the packaging on every single pint in our product line as a matter of normal business. I can tell you unequivocally that changing labels does not require us raise the price of our products. Lots of things impact the cost a consumer pays for a pint of Ben & Jerry’s. Label changes are not one.’ “It seems to me that adding a label to indicate that a product that contains GMOs ought to be pretty straightforward. “So, to the supporters of HR 1599 – I would simply ask, “What are you afraid of? Why is giving the American people more information about their food such a bad idea?’” “Perhaps supporters of keeping the American people in the dark believe that if consumers know that GMOs are in their food, they won’t buy them. I don’t believe that to be the case. I, myself, consume GMO foods, my family does, and we will continue to do so even if there is a label. But that’s my choice. “H.R. 1599 really is a “Washington Knows Best” approach. This is the epitome of a “Washington Knows Best” approach. It says: ‘We don’t care what people want. We don’t care what people think. We politicians in Washington, we know best.’ I gotta tell you something, that’s why people hate Congress. That’s why people are frustrated with Congress. They don’t think we listen. “So let me suggest to my colleagues a radical idea – and brace yourselves, because this is a really, really radical idea: Give the American people what they want.” ###
07.21.2015	FITCHBURG, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) will join local business and community leaders for the presentation of a $534,154 grant to the North Central Workforce Board as part of a $3.2 million grant award from the U.S. Department of Labor (USDOL) for a Sector Partnership National Emergency Grant. “Investing in strong workforce training programs is key to helping our local economy and community thrive. I’m proud to join Congresswoman Tsongas and all of our local leaders to celebrate this new funding and the opportunities it will create for our local manufacturing companies and workforce, especially people with disabilities,” Congressman McGovern said. “This partnership will open new doors to members of our community who have the skills to succeed and are eager to work. I am grateful to the U.S. Department of Labor for being a strong partner and investing in our community. By working together, our local leaders will continue to expand economic opportunity here in Fitchburg and throughout Central Massachusetts.” “The Sector Partnership National Emergency Grant will allow both regions to provide a skilled workforce for local manufacturing companies that meets local demand and The Disability Employment Initiative grants will allow us to provide enhanced services to people with disabilities under the new Workforce Investment and Opportunity Act and connect employers to this untapped talent source of qualified, skilled individuals who happen to have a disability” said Workforce Board Directors Tim Sappington and Jeff Turgeon. The $534,154 award will support partnerships between the North Central and Central Mass Workforce Boards and Mount Wachusett Community College (MWCC) and Mass Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MassMEP). MWCC will be offering their new Industrial Readiness and Quality Control trainings and MassMEP will be offering their CNC operator training. The grant is for two years and the goal is to train a total of 80 eligible unemployed individuals in advanced manufacturing skills to meet the local industry demand. The North Central and Central Mass Workforce Boards also recently received $1,140,000 from a USDOL Disability Employment Initiative. These grants will provide training funds and support for eligible individuals with disabilities interested in full time employment. The North Central Workforce Board received $640,000 and will be offering training in Healthcare, Manufacturing, Hospitality and Finance for this three year project. The Central Mass Workforce Board received $500,000 for their initiative and will offer training for career pathways in Human Services, Healthcare, and Customer Service. ###
07.20.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement on the death of Tibetan activist Tenzin Delek Rinpoche: “Last week I was deeply saddened to learn of the tragic death of the well-known Tibetan monk, Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. Tenzin Delek was serving a life sentence under very harsh conditions for allegedly ‘causing explosions’ and ‘inciting separatism,’ charges against which he steadfastly maintained his innocence. Just last April, I had written to the U.S. State Department to encourage our government officials to prioritize Tenzin Delek’s release on medical parole, because he was reported to be suffering from serious health problems. In late June, the State Department assured me the message had been transmitted, but now we see that China turned a callous blind eye to my pleas and those of many others. The Chinese authorities bear direct responsibility for Tenzin Delek’s unnecessary death. “But the barbarity of the story does not end there. Tenzin Delek’s family asked the Chinese government to return his body to them, so that they could carry out funeral rites in accordance with Tibetan tradition. This very basic, very human request was supported by Tibetan religious leaders and many others around the world. Instead, Chinese authorities cremated the body at a secret prison outside Chengdu, returning only ashes to his distraught family and community. The authorities’ only humane gesture, which was minimal and under pressure, was to permit several monks and family members, including two sisters, to view the body before the cremation. The monks were able to wash and dress the body, and carry out prayers, as was the family. But let me be clear: the authorities’ actions after Tenzin Delek’s death display the same utter contempt for their own laws, and for religious traditions, that characterized their treatment of this spiritual leader during his life. “We do not know the cause of Tenzin Delek’s death. He died while family members were waiting to see him, in what would have been only his second family visit in 13 years. His sisters, after seeing the body, report that his lips and fingernails had turned black; they believe he was murdered. At a minimum, it was the height of cruelty to have allowed a prisoner who was tortured, suffering from medical problems, and had been denied medical treatment, to die in prison. “I do not believe that we can expect the Chinese government to tell the world the truth about Tenzin Delek Rinpoche’s death. For this reason, today I am calling for an immediate independent international investigation into the circumstances surrounding his death, with the participation of forensic and human rights experts from the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. I also call on the Chinese government to allow a visit and investigation by the UN’s Special Rapporteur on torture, Juan Mendez, in light of the allegations of torture against Tenzin Delek, and China’s upcoming review this fall under the Convention Against Torture. "Frankly, these independent investigations would be in China’s best interests. Given their treatment of the man before his death, and of his body afterwards, authorities’ statements have little credibility. “Tenzin Delek’s death is being felt very strongly in Tibetan communities – we’ve already seen reports of police firing into the air to disperse the crowds that gathered to demand the return of the body to his home in Sichuan. I am concerned for the safety of the members of Tenzin Delek’s family and I have received very disturbing reports that his sister, Dolkar Lhamo, and her daughter, Nyima Lhamo, have been detained by the police. Please be assured that my voice will be heard if they are harmed or their rights are violated in any way. “My heart goes out to the family of Tenzin Delek, to his religious followers, and to the communities he served. He was an outstanding human being who defended his culture and his people, and paid dearly for it. He will not be forgotten.” ###
07.17.2015	WARE, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern will kick off his 2nd Annual Summer Food Rocks Tour to highlight USDA's national Summer Food Service program and how it helps low-income students in Massachusetts. As part of today’s tour, Congressman McGovern will lead a roundtable with state and local leaders to talk about how the summer food program helps to ensure that no child in Central Massachusetts goes hungry this summer. Partnering with Congressman McGovern are the USDA Food and Nutrition Service, the Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, and numerous local non-profits to highlight the availability of free, nutritious food for our children. The USDA Summer Food Service Program (SFSP) ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals when school is not in session. This summer, USDA plans to serve more than 200 million free meals to children 18 years and under at approved SFSP sites. Full info below: WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) USDA Under Secretary Kevin Concannon Rep. Donahue (Worcester) Rep. Berthiaume (Spencer) Rep. Whipps-Lee (Athol) Sen. Moore (Millbury) Selectman Lanciani Worcester School Committee Member Hilda Ramirez Other State and Local Leaders WHAT: Congressman McGovern's 2nd Annual Summer Food Rocks Tour - Highlighting Summer Food Service for Low-Income Students, including roundtable with state and local leaders WHERE: Kaziol Elementary School, 4 Gould Road, Ware, MA WHEN: Today, July 17 from 7:45AM to 2:30PM with a 10:35 AM Roundtable Discussion ###
07.14.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement on the Obama Administration's announcement that it has reached an agreement with Iran. “Today’s historic nuclear agreement between the U.S. and Iran is a major step forward for American diplomacy,” Congressman McGovern said. “This deal is built on the framework reached in April and the product of months of principled negotiation. I commend the President as well as Secretary Kerry and Secretary Moniz for their courage, determination, and leadership in working with the P5 + 1 partners to make this deal a reality. “Preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon is essential to the security of the U.S., the Middle East, and countries around the world,” McGovern added. “With this agreement we have an opportunity to avert the unthinkable alternative of yet another war in the region and advance the broader goal of containing nuclear weapons globally. Along with my colleagues in Congress, I look forward to carefully reviewing the agreement and having a robust debate.” ###
07.14.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, delivered the following opening statement at today’s hearing entitled “Tibet & China: Searching for a New Way Forward.” Watch livestream here. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s opening statement: “All of us are present today because we care about the fundamental rights of Tibetans, including the right to worship as they choose and to enjoy and protect their culture. But the situation in Tibet is dire, and we may be running out of time to guarantee those rights. “At the risk of sounding “un-Dalai-Lama-like” – I am angry and frustrated. I am outraged by the Chinese government’s treatment of the Tibetan people. To be blunt – it is unconscionable. We need to be doing something different. We need to have the guts to take some action. “To the People’s Republic of China, I have one more message. Perhaps you think that with the eventual inevitable death of His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, the issue of Tibetan human rights will die, too. But that would be a wrong calculation. We in the U.S. Congress will not forget Tibet, nor will the millions of others around the world who take their inspiration from the Tibetan way of life. You would be well-advised to reach an agreement with the Dalai Lama while you still can.” Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s hearing were Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi; Dr. Sarah Sewall, Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy and Human Rights, and Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues for the U.S. State Department; Sophie Richardson, China Director, Human Rights Watch; Richard Gere, Chairman of the Board, International Campaign for Tibet; and Kaydor Aukatsang, Representative of His Holiness the Dalai Lama to the Americas. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s opening statement is below. Watch livestream here. As Prepared For Delivery: “Good afternoon, and thank you for attending today’s hearing, Tibet & China: Searching for a New Way Forward. I would like to welcome our distinguished witnesses who are leading efforts on behalf of the U.S. government and civil society to promote respect for the human rights of Tibetans. I would also like to thank the staff of the Commission for organizing this important hearing. “Yesterday I began the day with the news of the tragic and unnecessary death of the revered Tibetan monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche in a Chinese prison. Tenzin Delek was in the thirteenth year of a twenty-year sentence for allegedly ‘causing explosions’ and ‘inciting separatism,’ charges against which he steadfastly maintained his innocence. He was serving his sentence under very harsh conditions. According to reports, his family was allowed only one visit in 13 years; and although he was said to suffer from a heart condition, bouts of unconsciousness and uncontrollable shaking of parts of his body, it’s not clear whether he received any medical treatment in prison. “As recently as April, I urged the State Department to prioritize his release on medical parole in our engagement with China, and just two weeks ago I was assured that message had been delivered. Yet here we are, with another Tibetan leader dead. “All of us are present today because we care about the fundamental rights of Tibetans, including the right to worship as they choose and to enjoy and protect their culture. But the situation in Tibet is dire, and we may be running out of time to guarantee those rights. “His Holiness the Dalai Lama has been in exile for 56 years. As we celebrate his 80th birthday, the Chinese government has recently asserted its right to approve his successor. The very continuation of the ancient line of Tibetan spiritual leadership and reincarnation is in question. “Since 2009, more than 130 Tibetans inside China have taken the unimaginable step of setting themselves on fire – at least 112 are believed to have died. Some chose self-immolation to protest Chinese government policies, others to call for the return of the Dalai Lama. In response, Chinese authorities have intensified official reprisals. “In April, the Chinese government issued a new white paper on Tibet, with its own version of history and an unprecedented demand that the Dalai Lama publicly state that Tibet has been an integral part of China since antiquity, as a pre-condition for improving relations with China. “Congress has taken action on behalf of Tibet in the past. We approved the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, which is supposed to guide U.S. government policy -- it encourages dialogue between the Chinese government and representatives of the Dalai Lama, and created the post of Special Coordinator for Tibetan Issues within the Department of State. Just last week the House approved H. Res. 337, calling for substantive dialogue, without preconditions, in order to address Tibetan grievances and secure a negotiated agreement for the Tibetan people. “But I get the sense that China doesn’t take us seriously. On the dialogue front, China and Tibet held nine rounds of talks between 2002 and 2010 but reached no agreements. No talks have been held since 2010. Were there any consequences to the Chinese for its intransigence and the breakdown of the talks? “Then there’s the issue of access to Tibetan territory. The Chinese government does not grant the U.S. the same access to the People’s Republic that we grant China – and it imposes even greater restrictions on access to Tibet. As our first witness Under Secretary Sarah Sewall reported in her comments in Geneva last month, over the last four years, 35 of 39 requests made by the U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulates to visit the Tibet Autonomous Region were denied. Again, what are the consequences to the Chinese for this behavior? Are there any consequences whatsover? “At the risk of sounding “un-Dalai-Lama-like” – I am angry and frustrated. I am outraged by the Chinese government’s treatment of the Tibetan people. To be blunt – it is unconscionable. “We need to be doing something different. We need to have the guts to take some action. Everyone in the world says how much he or she admires the Dalai Lama. Every head of state, every international organization – all declare how much they care about Tibet and worry about abuses against the Tibetan people. But nothing changes. We must all come together now to change the status quo, to change the game the Chinese government has been playing for so many decades. The situation is urgent – it can wait no longer. And shame on us if we stand by, with empty words, and continue to watch the people of Tibet suffer, and their culture, religion and way of life be exterminated, day by day, year by year, until nothing is left. “To the People’s Republic of China, I have one more message. Perhaps you think that with the eventual inevitable death of His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, the issue of Tibetan human rights will die, too. But that would be a wrong calculation. We in the U.S. Congress will not forget Tibet, nor will the millions of others around the world who take their inspiration from the Tibetan way of life. You would be well-advised to reach an agreement with the Dalai Lama while you still can. The future without him is unclear. Today, all around the world, we are seeing the consequences of the repression of religious and ethnic minorities. There is still time to recognize that inclusion and respect for human rights offer the best path to security. “Before I turn to my other House colleagues, I ask that we now observe a moment of silence to remember and honor the life of Tenzin Delek.” ###
07.13.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, released the following statement on the death of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, a Tibetan human rights activist who had been imprisoned by the Chinese government for the last thirteen years. “I am deeply saddened by the tragic and unnecessary death of the well-known Tibetan monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche in a Chinese prison. Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was serving a twenty-year sentence under very harsh conditions for allegedly ‘causing explosions’ and ‘inciting separatism,’ charges against which he steadfastly maintained his innocence,” Congressman McGovern said. “As recently as April I called upon the U.S. government to make his release on medical parole a priority so that he could receive treatment outside Tibet and China for the serious health problems he was reported to be suffering. China turned a blind eye to my pleas and those of many others, and now a respected spiritual leader is no longer with us. “It is imperative that China return Tenzin Delek Rinpoche’s body to his family, and respect their wishes to bury him in accordance with Tibetan tradition. Any other course of action would be barbarous,” McGovern added. “The death of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche only underscores the urgency of the situation in Tibet and the need for the international community to hold China accountable for their human rights abuses.” Congressman McGovern has been a leading voice in Washington calling for the release of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche. In April 2015, he called on the State Department and the U.S. Embassy in China to make Tenzin Delek’s release on medical parole a priority, citing his poor health. In June 2015, the State Department responded, saying that they recently urged the Chinese government to release Tenzin Delek on medical parole and that they continue to press the Chinese government to respect universal human rights. ###
07.09.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat, led today’s floor debate for House Democrats on H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act and called out House Republicans for their amendment to allow the Confederate flag to be displayed in National Parks and cemeteries run by the National Park Service. Excerpts from Congressman McGovern’s floor speech today: “Americans are ready to leave behind the discrimination and hate symbolized by the Confederate flag, but my friends on the other side of the aisle seem to have a different idea. Last night House Republicans introduced an amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill that simply has no place on the House floor. “House Republicans tried to sneak this amendment into the bill late last night, hoping no one would notice. We noticed. The American people noticed and I am ashamed that in 2015, Congress would even consider a measure that seeks to perpetuate the hate and racism that the Confederate flag represents. “Congress should not promote this symbol of hate. Now is a time for us to come together. I am proud to join my colleagues who are standing up today for all Americans united against hate.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Full video here. As Prepared for delivery: “I thank the gentleman from Texas, Mr. Burgess, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes and I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself such time as I may consume. Before I speak on this bill, I want to thank Leader Pelosi for leading today’s efforts to hold House Republicans accountable for their divisive Confederate flag amendment. “It is stunning to me that my Republican friends decided to refer the Democratic Leader’s resolution to committee so that we could not have a debate. The legislature in South Carolina could have a debate, but my Republican friends in Congress ensured that we could not have that debate. “The fact is, Americans are ready to leave behind the discrimination and hate symbolized by the Confederate flag, but my friends on the other side of the aisle seem to have a different idea. “Last night House Republicans introduced an amendment to the Interior Appropriations bill that simply has no place on this House floor. It would undo the successful Democratic amendments adopted by voice that would have barred the display of Confederate flags in federal cemeteries and barred the National Park Service from doing business with gift shops that sell Confederate flag merchandise. “Simply put, while South Carolina voted this week to take the Confederate flag down, Republicans in Congress were ready to put it back up. “Even more troubling, House Republicans tried to sneak this amendment into the bill late last night, hoping no one would notice. We noticed. “The American people noticed and I am ashamed that in 2015, Congress would even consider a measure that seeks to perpetuate the hate and racism that the Confederate flag represents. “Now my friends on the other side of the aisle, especially the leadership, seem to be in disarray. “The Speaker of the House is trying to distance himself from the measure, notwithstanding that the Republican Chairman of the House Appropriations Interior Subcommittee who offered the amendment said that he did so at the request of leadership. “The Confederate flag is a symbol of racism and a reminder of one of our nation’s darkest periods of division. It has no place in America’s National Parks. “Congress should not promote this symbol of hate. Now is a time to come together and I am proud to join my colleagues who are standing up today for all Americans united against hate. “I just want to say one final thing. The fact that the Interior Appropriations bill was pulled from consideration on this House floor by my Republican friends because they believed that without this pro-confederate flag amendment that they could lose up to 100 of their own members, is stunning to me. “It never ceases to amaze me. Just when I think this institution can’t sink any lower, then something like this happens. And so I would urge my colleagues to stand with me and vote against the previous question so we can actually have this debate. A debate I think the American people would like to have.” ###
07.08.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, spoke on the House floor to call for passage of H. Res. 337, a bipartisan resolution calling for meaningful dialogue and a negotiated settlement for the people of Tibet. Congressman McGovern introduced the bipartisan resolution with Representative Joseph Pitts (PA), his fellow co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission; House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA); Representative Eliot L. Engel (NY), the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee; and Representative Matt Salmon (AZ), Chairman of the Asia Pacific Subcommittee. “We are all here because we care about the fundamental human rights of Tibetans, including the right to worship as they choose and to enjoy and protect their culture,” Congressman McGovern said. “But we may be running out of time to guarantee those rights. “Since 2009, more than 130 Tibetans inside China have taken the unimaginable step of setting themselves on fire – at least 112 are believed to have died. Some chose self-immolation to protest Chinese government policies, others to call for the return of the Dalai Lama. In response, Chinese authorities have intensified official reprisals,” McGovern added. “Surely the people of Tibet must wonder whether anyone is hearing their desperate cries. With this resolution we are attempting to send a clear message back to Tibet that, yes, we hear you. You are not alone. “We need to have the guts to take some action. Everyone in the world says how much they admire the Dalai Lama. Every head of State, every international organization – all declare how much they care about Tibet and worry about Tibetan human rights abuses,” McGovern concluded. “But things have only gotten worse. We must all come together now to change the status quo, to change the game the Chinese government has been playing for so many decades. The situation is urgent. It can wait no longer.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. Video of floor speech here. As Prepared For Delivery: “I thank the gentleman for yielding me time. And I want to thank Chairman Royce, Ranking Member Engel, Subcommittee Chairman Salmon, and my friend and fellow Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, Congressman Pitts, for working in such a bipartisan way to bring this resolution to the House floor during this week when we are all celebrating the 80th birthday of His Holiness the Dalai Lama. I especially want to thank Democratic Leader Pelosi for her many years of leadership in support of the Tibetan people. She is a true champion in the struggle to protect their basic human rights and autonomy. “We are all here because we care about the fundamental human rights of Tibetans, including the right to worship as they choose and to enjoy and protect their culture. But we may be running out of time to guarantee those rights. As we celebrate the 80th birthday of Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama, the Chinese government has recently asserted its right to approve his successor. The very continuation of the ancient line of Tibetan spiritual leadership and reincarnation is in question. Next Tuesday, on July 14th, the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission will hold a hearing on the situation in Tibet with the aim of identifying new, creative ideas to advance the basic human rights of Tibetans and ensure Tibetan autonomy. “I share the concerns of my colleagues that the situation in Tibet is dire. Since 2009, more than 130 Tibetans inside China have taken the unimaginable step of setting themselves on fire – at least 112 are believed to have died. Some chose self-immolation to protest Chinese government policies, others to call for the return of the Dalai Lama. In response, Chinese authorities have intensified official reprisals. Surely the people of Tibet must wonder whether anyone is hearing their desperate cries. With this resolution we are attempting to send a clear message back to Tibet that, yes, we hear you. You are not alone. “Regrettably, the human rights abuses in Tibet are neither new, nor unknown. On the contrary, Tibet is a very sensitive issue in U.S.-China relations. U.S. policy is supposed to be guided by the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, which encourages dialogue between the Chinese government and representatives of the Dalai Lama. But Chinese intransigence has closed down dialogue since 2010. China also severely restricts access to Tibet and Tibetan regions, especially for U.S. journalists, officials and citizens, even though, I might add, Chinese citizens and officials enjoy unrestricted access here in the United States. “In April, the Chinese government issued a new white paper on Tibet, with its own unbelievable version of history and an unprecedented demand that the Dalai Lama publicly state that Tibet has been an integral part of China since antiquity as a pre-condition for improving relations with China. “We need to be doing something different. We need to have the guts to take some action. Everyone in the world says how much they admire the Dalai Lama. Every head of State, every international organization – all declare how much they care about Tibet and worry about Tibetan human rights abuses. But things have only gotten worse. We must all come together now to change the status quo, to change the game the Chinese government has been playing for so many decades. The situation is urgent. It can wait no longer. And shame on all of us if we stand by, with empty words, and continue to watch the people of Tibet suffer and their culture, religion and way of life be exterminated, day by day, year by year, until nothing is left. “So, I thank my colleagues for bringing this urgent matter to the attention of the Congress and I urge all my colleagues to support H. Res. 337.” ###
07.07.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined state and local leaders to celebrate the advertisement of Phase I of the Blackstone Heritage Corridor Visitor Center in Worcester with the bid ready for review by construction contractors. The Visitor Center is set to open in 2017 and will be a hub for recreational, historical, cultural, and geographic attractions in Worcester and the National Heritage Corridor. Congressman McGovern helped to secure funding for the Visitor Center through a federal highway department appropriation. The Visitor Center is being constructed by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDOT). “Today marks a big victory for families and businesses in Worcester and throughout the National Heritage Corridor,” Congressman McGovern said. “Helping to secure the federal funding for this project has been a major priority for me and I am so grateful to all of the partners who have helped to make this a reality. With the advertisement of the project bid ready for review by construction contractors, we are on track for the 2017 opening. This visitor center is a strong investment in the region and I look forward to seeing all the ways it will help to bring our communities together.” “The construction of the new Blackstone Heritage Corridor Visitor Center in Worcester is an excellent example of state and federal government working together with stakeholders on a project that will truly benefit the public and the region for years to come,” said Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito. “I am so appreciative of the collaborative and lasting efforts of so many that will result in this project coming to fruition.” “It is exciting to celebrate this important step forward for the Blackstone Heritage Corridor Visitor Center,” said Highway Administrator Thomas J. Tinlin. “MassDOT is happy to help with this important project that will serve as a Blackstone River Bikeway access point by providing trails, boardwalks, observational platforms, interpretive signage and kiosks, and paths with connectivity to the bikeway and to Worcester’s Blackstone Linear Park. With MassDOT constructing the visitor center, we are demonstrating our continued commitment to strengthen our economy and quality of life.” “The Blackstone Heritage Corridor Visitor Center will provide residents and visitors alike with the opportunity to explore and enjoy the natural resources that the Blackstone River Valley has to offer,” said Energy and Environmental Affairs Secretary Matthew Beaton. “I commend the work of all individuals and groups who have worked tirelessly to ensure that this vision would become a reality.” “Holy Cross is committed to supporting initiatives and programs that contribute to the quality of life in the City and region. The Visitor Center will provide visitors and neighbors alike, including members of our Holy Cross community, a unique and interactive opportunity to celebrate the history of Worcester and Blackstone Valley,” said Rev. Philip L. Boroughs, S.J., president of the College of the Holy Cross. Joining Congressman McGovern today were Secretary Matthew Beaton, Massachusetts Department of Energy and Environmental Affairs; Acting Highway Administrator Thomas Tinlin, MassDOT; Father Philip Boroughs, President of the College of the Holy Cross; Charlene Perkins Cutler, Executive Director of the Blackstone Heritage Corridor; and leaders from the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation. ###
07.01.2015	ANKARA, TURKEY – Today, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) completed a two-day visit to Turkey as part of a Congressional Delegation to the Middle East this week led by U.S. Senator Tim Kaine (VA). Yesterday, the delegation traveled to the Syrian border town of Gaziantep to meet with interim Syrian government officials and local council representatives, Syrian opposition forces, as well as independent Syrian media activists. The delegation also visited an urban refugee center that provides Syrian refugees with critical basic services and the headquarters of the Syrian American Medical Society for a roundtable with local NGOs providing humanitarian assistance, emergency response, and medical care to victims of the conflict in Syria. In December 2013, McGovern joined U.S. Representatives Ed Royce (CA-39), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and, and Bill Keating (MA-09) in a letter to Secretary Kerry calling for U.S action to address Syria’s growing humanitarian crisis. As of today, the U.S. has contributed more than $3 billion in humanitarian assistance to help the millions of Syrian refugees displaced by the crisis. Following his meetings in Gaziantep, Congressman McGovern stated, “Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have been killed by the Bashir al-Assad regime, ISIS, and countless militia groups. Millions have been internally displaced or have become refugees. “The Syrian government continues to target civilians, using barrel bombs – which are deadly and indiscriminate,” McGovern continued. “Bashir al-Assad is a war criminal who for the sake of the Syrian people should step down immediately. Russia and Iran should join other world leaders to force Assad to leave and prevent even more bloodshed.” “Ultimately there must be a political solution – one which allows the Syrian people to determine their own future and respects the rights of all the Syrian people. In the meantime we and other international donors must increase our humanitarian aid to the region to alleviate the enormous suffering,” McGovern concluded. “As the United States continues to confront the challenges in the region, Turkey continues to be an important ally and I am grateful to the Turkish government for their leadership in addressing the Syrian refugee crisis as well as the threat of ISIS and other extremist groups.” Today in Ankara, the delegation met with Turkish Prime Minister Davutoğlu and Foreign Minister Çavuşoğlu to discuss a wide range of topics including the strong U.S.-Turkey partnership and shared regional concerns such as Syria, Iraq, Iran, and Russia. The delegation also discussed counter-ISIL efforts and how to better secure Turkey’s border from foreign fighters and other extremist threats. Kaine expressed his deep appreciation for the generosity of the Turkish government and people in addressing the Syrian refugee crisis and for Turkey’s ongoing military and intelligence cooperation. The delegation also met with think tank representatives to discuss the recent election and the future of the Kurdish peace process. Earlier this week, the delegation spent two days in Iraq focused on political reconciliation and the U.S. mission against ISIS. Other delegation members include Senator Joe Donnelly (IN), Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Congressmen Stephen Lynch (MA-08), Brian Higgins (NY-26) and Peter Welch (VT-At-Large). ###
07.01.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat and leading advocate of modernizing U.S. relations with Cuba, praised the announcement by President Obama that the Administration has reached a deal with Cuba to re-establish diplomatic relations and re-open embassies. The effective date for re-establishment is July 20 when the Cuban government will re-open its embassy in Washington. “Today’s announcement that the U.S. will re-open its embassy in Cuba is a victory for American diplomacy and a strong step forward for all who are working to achieve modern, normal relations between our two countries,” Congressman McGovern said. “In 2015, Americans know it’s time to embrace a truly 21stcentury approach to foreign policy that leaves the Cold War behind. This historic action brings us one step closer to making that a reality. “By re-opening embassies in each other’s countries, we will be able to create new economic opportunities for American businesses, increase travel and exchanges, and support efforts to strengthen democratic reforms and human rights protections,” McGovern added. “I want to thank President Obama and Secretary Kerry, along with the two negotiating teams, for their leadership and work to make this happen. Today, the U.S. and Cuba are saying with one voice that we are ready to create a better future for our countries and our people. I look forward to seeing the U.S. flag waving proudly above our embassy in Havana later this month.” In December 2014, when President Obama first announced the normalization of U.S. relations with Cuba, Congressman McGovern joined Secretary Kerry to welcome home Alan Gross, the American aid worker who was released from Cuba the same day. ###
06.30.2015	On a Congressional Delegation (CODEL) trip to the Middle East this week, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) met with two constituents. During the delegation’s time in Iraq, Congressman McGovern met with military and diplomatic leaders, including John Sullivan of Worcester and Scott Harney of Everett, both serving in the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. View photo online here. “On my Congressional trip to Iraq this week, I was proud to meet with two constituents serving our country in the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad,” Congressman McGovern said. “John Sullivan of Worcester and Scott Harney of Everett are both doing good work here and I am grateful for their service. This trip is all about recognizing the important work our brave men and women in uniform and in our civilian services are doing to protect our national security and giving them the support they need to do it.” From left to right: John Sullivan of Worcester, Congressman McGovern, Scott Harney of Everett. In Baghdad on Sunday evening, the delegation met with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi to discuss efforts to build a more unified and inclusive government representative of all Iraqis. The delegation stressed the importance of the partnership between the U.S. and Iraq and noted the United States' strong support to Government of Iraq-led efforts to defeat ISIS. On Monday, the delegation met with Iraqi Minister of Defense Khaled al-Obeidi, Speaker of the Iraqi Parliament Salim al-Jabouri, Anbar Governor Rawi, and other Sunni tribal leaders to hear their perspectives on the current successes and challenges to national reconciliation efforts, including decentralization and economic issues, and winning the battle against ISIS. Throughout the meetings, the delegation stressed the importance of prioritizing Sunni engagement, bringing all armed groups under the control of the central government and guarding against Iranian influence. They also met with U.S. servicemembers as well as foreign service officers to listen to their impressions from their time in Iraq and to thank them for their service and sacrifice, especially when being so far from loved ones. Today, the delegation will travel to Turkey, including a visit to Ankara. Read more about the trip here. ###
06.29.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat, released the following statement on the announcement by the U.S. State Department that the U.S. will renew military aid to Bahrain. “Today's action by the Administration to renew foreign military sales to Bahrain is a dangerous step backward for human rights. “If the U.S. is truly committed to regional stability, we must push our allies to embrace policies that will strengthen free societies, not silence entire segments of their population. This is the only way to combat extremism. “Last week's release of Ibrahim Sharif and other political prisoners is an important step, but Bahrain must do more to respect the basic human rights of its Shi’a majority and Sunni critics. As long as Bahrain continues to unjustly imprison its own citizens, any commitment to human rights remains an empty promise. “Allowing Bahrain to continue to exclude its Shi’a citizens and Sunni activists will only increase the risk of civil unrest, leaving them vulnerable to extremists in the region. Bahrain must respect the basic human rights and dignity of all its citizens, including the right to participate freely and fully in civil and political life. “The renewal of U.S. military aid sadly demonstrates, once again, how so-called national security interests continue to trump human rights. If America is truly committed to supporting open and democratic societies, it must hold Bahrain accountable.” As co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, Congressman McGovern has been a leading champion of policies that promote human rights and democratic societies around the world. ###
06.29.2015	AMMAN, JORDAN – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), a senior House Democrat, arrived in Amman, Jordan after spending three days in Kuwait and Iraq. McGovern is joining a Congressional Delegation to the region focused on the U.S. mission against ISIS and the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Iraq and Syria. In Kuwait City on Saturday, the delegation paid their respects at the Grand Mosque to national officials and families impacted by the Friday ISIS bombing that claimed 27 lives and injured hundreds more. “In recent days we have seen the horror of a violent attack in a house of worship in Charleston. In Kuwait City, the seven of us attended events where we offered our condolences to the people of Kuwait following the horrific attack on the Imam Sadiq Mosque‎. The alliance between the United States and Kuwait is deeply important to both nations and we stand with our friends at this difficult time,” the Congressional delegation said on Saturday. Sunday, the delegation traveled to Erbil and met with Kurdistan Regional Government President Masoud Barzani and Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani, as well as a group of humanitarian leaders. President Barzani and Prime Minister Barzani thanked the U.S. and Coalition partners for critical airstrikes and noted the growing threat from ISIS. The delegation emphasized the importance of close Erbil-Baghdad ties and commended the leaders for the Peshmerga's success against ISIS and for their support to internally displaced persons. They also reiterated their deep appreciation to local leaders in Erbil, including Archbishop Warda of the Chaldean Catholic Church, for the valuable role these individuals are playing in providing critical humanitarian assistance. Later the delegation visited the Combined Joint Operations Center (CJOC) to learn more about counter- ISIS operations and the Coalition's support of the train and equip program. The Erbil-based CJOC is responsible for coordinating Coalition air support with ground combatants in Kurdistan involved in the mission against ISIS. In Baghdad on Sunday evening, the delegation met with Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi to discuss efforts to build a more unified and inclusive government representative of all Iraqis. The delegation stressed the importance of the partnership between the U.S. and Iraq and noted the United States' strong support to Government of Iraq-led efforts to defeat ISIS. On Monday, the delegation met with Iraqi Minister of Defense Khaled al-Obeidi, Speaker of the Iraqi Parliament Salim al-Jabouri, Anbar Governor Rawi, and other Sunni tribal leaders to hear their perspectives on the current successes and challenges to national reconciliation efforts, including decentralization and economic issues, and winning the battle against ISIS. Throughout the meetings, the delegation stressed the importance of prioritizing Sunni engagement, bringing all armed groups under the control of the central government and guarding against Iranian influence. They also met with U.S. servicemembers as well as foreign service officers from Virginia and other delegation members’ states to listen to their impressions from their time in Iraq and to thank them for their service and sacrifice, especially when being so far from loved ones. “In our visit to Iraq this week, we have seen firsthand the challenges that American troops face in the fight against ISIS,” Massachusetts Congressman McGovern said. “Meeting with both U.S. and Iraqi military and diplomatic leaders, it’s clear that Congress must do its part to shape our strategy for this mission. Iraq remains both a very complicated and dangerous place. There are no easy answers or good options. It is important that whatever mission is undertaken in Iraq be clearly defined – including how it ends. I am worried that we are getting more deeply involved in yet another messy war without fully understanding all the implications. Congress needs to debate and act on a policy and I will continue my push to ensure Congress does its job.” “Our two days in Iraq provided a close-up view of the fight against ISIL and the support the United States and Coalition partners are providing to help Iraq defeat this major Sunni terrorist threat,” said Senator Kaine. “Because the success of the mission depends heavily on the efforts of the Abadi government to repair the sectarian divisions fomented by the government of former Prime Minister Maliki, we emphasized the need for inclusion at every opportunity. The appreciation expressed for American support was notable, particularly in Erbil, where President Obama’s decision to initiate airstrikes last August was recognized as critical to the survival of the Kurdish Regional Government.” Tomorrow, the delegation will travel to Turkey, including a visit to Ankara. Other delegation members include Senator Joe Donnelly, Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard, Congressmen Stephen Lynch, Brian Higgins and Peter Welch. ###
06.26.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) welcomed the news that MassDevelopment has awarded $400,000 to the Massachusetts Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MassMEP) to help accelerate their outreach and training programs for the defense supply chain. The funds are part of a $1,475,588 grant to MassDevelopment from the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) to undertake economic adjustment activities in Massachusetts. MassDevelopment works to identify gaps and resources available to the manufacturing companies in the defense industry that will be impacted by sequestration. “With strong partners like MassDevelopment and MassMEP, it’s clear that Massachusetts will continue to be a leader in the manufacturing sector and support the good-paying jobs that help our families succeed and our communities grow. This award will be a big boost for Massachusetts manufacturers and a strong investment in our economy,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “I am pleased that the Defense Department has recognized the leading role MassDevelopment is playing to support the local manufacturing companies helping to supply our brave men and women in uniform. Working together we can help our companies continue to fuel the strong economic growth our families need.” “MassDevelopment works with both the defense and manufacturing sectors, two critical, economically intertwined areas of the Massachusetts innovation economy,” said MassDevelopment President and CEO Marty Jones. “MassMEP plays a leadership role in strengthening manufacturers, and we look forward to working with such a fine organization on its important efforts.” Jack Healy, President of MassMEP stated, “It is a privilege to be chosen to assist the Defense Supplier Network in our state in this endeavor. The variety and unique range of technologies provided by enterprises within this network make it imperative that we help them to competitively position their firms for a future of diminishing defense funding." The MassDevelopment project, funded by the federal Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA), will develop a proactive response to mitigate the potential impact of federal defense budget cuts and sequestration on an industry that has become increasingly dependent on defense contracts. The project will map a strategy to capitalize on the Commonwealth's competitive advantage within its defense industry, conducting a comprehensive economic diversification study and developing an implementation strategy to create an economic base that becomes less dependent on defense contracting. Establishing a Baseline for Defense Industry The study will be conducted in two distinct, yet interdependent, phases. Phase I, "Setting the Stage for Action," will address the assessment and economic diversification approach. Phase II, "Taking Action," will address the implementation strategy and sustainability. MassMEP will focus on: The potential for expanding technology transfer and identifying methods to accelerate the commercialization of defense-related products, and Identifying the potential for new applications of defense-related products and expanding the defense industry customer base. The challenges budget cuts present provide an opportunity to identify new economic growth sectors related to assets in the industry. MassMEP will identify potential support services, create enterprise clusters, and develop other innovative techniques to identify, recruit, and grow development of a supply chain for Massachusetts' manufacturers. Using the services provided in the MassDevelopment OEA grant and MassMEP's existing resources, MassMEP will be able to assist manufacturing companies in identifying additional opportunities for growth and employee retention. About Massachusetts Manufacturing Extension Partnership Massachusetts Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MassMEP), part of the national NIST MEP system, is a leading resource for manufacturers. Committed to success in manufacturing, MassMEP transforms companies through solutions focused on innovative growth, operational excellence, and workforce development. The organization cultivates a sustainable community built on supportive relationships, idea sharing, achievement, and next generation manufacturing. For more information, visit www.massmep.org ###
06.26.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision on marriage equality: “At long last, the Supreme Court has recognized that every loving couple has the right to marry. I am especially proud to be from Massachusetts – the first state in the nation to legalize marriage equality in 2004. Today’s ruling is a powerful statement for full equality. Marriage will now be legal for LGBT Americans in all 50 states across the country. “As we celebrate today, we know that the fight for full equality must continue. Our work will not be finished until we know that every LGBT American knows that they will never lose their job, lose their home, or live in fear because of who they are and who they love. “Finally, I want to honor those brave men and women in our country who, over many years, have fought for equal rights and equal protection under the law for all LGBT citizens. Some have lost their lives, have been victims of violence, and have faced discrimination. Today’s victory is a result of their courage and their commitment. Because of them, we are a better country.” ###
06.25.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision in the King v. Burwell case: “Today is a major victory, ensuring that millions of Americans across the country will continue to have access to high-quality, affordable health care like we do in Massachusetts. Massachusetts was proud to lead the way in health care reform and today’s Supreme Court’s decision sent a powerful message that the Affordable Care Act is here to stay. “By upholding the part of the law that makes it easier for families to afford health insurance, the Court has protected the incredible progress we have achieved. More than 16 million uninsured Americans have gained coverage since the law was passed and today, close to a third of Americans who were uninsured just a few years ago are now insured. “Today’s ruling is the second time the Supreme Court has upheld the Affordable Care Act. This should send a clear message to Republicans that it is time for them to end their destructive crusade against the health law. As we celebrate today, we must continue to work together to strengthen the Affordable Care Act and reaffirm our commitment to ensuring that health care is a right for every American.” ###
06.25.2015	Today, Representatives Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Joseph Pitts (PA), co-chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, joined Representative Eliot L. Engel (NY), the top Democrat on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and Representative Matt Salmon (AZ), Chairman of the Asia Pacific Subcommittee, to introduce H. Res. 337, a measure calling for meaningful dialogue and a negotiated settlement for the people of Tibet. The resolution also acknowledges the contributions of His Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama in advance of his 80th birthday, including his tireless efforts to promote, through peaceful means, genuine autonomy for the people of Tibet. “Open and free societies are essential to supporting and strengthening human rights around the world and the United States must be a leader in promoting these values,” Rep. McGovern said. “His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama has been a true champion of these goals and a powerful voice in advancing the human rights and religious freedom of the Tibetan people. As co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, I had the pleasure to meet His Holiness in 2009 and am proud to join my colleagues in supporting this bipartisan resolution. As a strong partner and advocate for the promotion of democracy and a free society in Tibet, the United States has a unique role to play and this resolution will help to bring a spotlight to this important issue.” Representative Pitts said, “The Dalai Lama has spoken eloquently about the genuine threat of extinction to his culture and to his people after half a century's oppression by communist China. All Americans should support freedom and autonomy for the Tibetan people, who, though they respect human rights, are denied their inalienable rights by an occupying power. I am pleased to support this resolution, and, as co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, the upholding of the inherent dignity and rights of all.” “Throughout his life, His Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama, has championed greater understanding, harmony, and respect among all religious faiths. As the spiritual and temporal leader of the Tibetan people, he has been a model for all of us on the importance of preserving the cultural, religious, historical, and linguistic heritage—not just for the Tibetan people but for all people. His Holiness has done outstanding work to safeguard the environment in the Tibetan plateau, to promote democracy among the Tibetan people, and to champion non-violent conflict resolution,” said Rep. Engel. “This resolution reaffirms the unwavering friendship between the Tibetan people and the United States, and I'm proud to offer it along with Representatives Salmon, Pitts and McGovern.” Representative Salmon added, “I had the pleasure of meeting His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama in 1999, and have always been amazed by his tireless promotion of human rights and religious freedom on behalf of the Tibetan people. The Dalai Lama’s leadership has been central to preserving Tibetan culture and heritage worldwide, despite continued and escalating restrictions on Tibetan religious practices and linguistic heritage. I am pleased to be introducing this resolution with Rep. Engel, and hope that it will spur renewed interest between the People’s Republic of China and the Dalai Lama to hold substantive discussions about Tibet and the Tibetan people.” In addition to underscoring the close ties between the American and Tibetan people, the resolution also calls on the government of the United States to uphold its commitment to preserving the human rights, political and religious freedom of the people of Tibet. Additionally, it calls on the People’s Republic of China to enter into meaningful dialogue with the Dalai Lama and his representatives, without any preconditions, in order to produce negotiated settlement for the Tibetan people. ###
06.24.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Nutrition, delivered the following statement at the House Agriculture Committee hearing reviewing U.S. International Food Aid Programs led by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). “Investing in these programs is also an investment in our national security,” Congressman McGovern said. “It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to know that when people can actually put food on the table for their children, make a living off the land and see a future for their family, they are less likely to take up arms against us or their neighbors. “We can be proud of these programs. We should be providing both USDA and USAID more support,” McGovern added. “And I urge all my colleagues on this panel to go and see first-hand the incredible diversity and success of our international food aid programs. They will make you wave the flag.” Congressman McGovern has seen firsthand how U.S. food aid has helped communities around the world. In his statement, he highlighted his trips to see these programs in action in South America and Africa and renewed his call for Congress to strengthen its investment in the international food aid programs led by USDA and USAID. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s statement is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “I want to thank the Chairman and Ranking Member and our witnesses today for recognizing the importance of our international food aid and nutrition. “When I travel to other countries, I try to make a point of seeing first-hand some of our international food aid programs. So I know what I’m talking about when I say that they are impressive. I’ve been doing this for a number of years. In 2003, on my second trip to Colombia, I went to see a school feeding program, a pilot program that would later become a model for the George McGovern-Robert Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition, in an area where tens of thousands of internally displaced Colombians were living on the outskirts of Bogota. “I remember standing in the school yard of this elementary school with U.S. Ambassador Anne Patterson when we were approached by the grandmother of one of students. She came up to us and she thanked us for providing these meals. She asked us to tell the American people, to tell the American president, that if it weren’t for the support of this school and these meals, she would likely have had to let her son join one of the guerrilla or paramilitary groups, just so he would get fed. But now, she could send her son to school, she could make sure that he received two good meals each day, and the armed actors weren’t going to get him; he had a chance to make something better of himself. “In 2007, I traveled to Africa, specifically to see our food aid programs in all their diversity. In remote Diri Dawa, Ethiopia ,we saw a combination of USAID and USDA-supported programs diversify seeds and food crops, help support a milk cooperative, better manage water and the use of fertilizer, and benefit from targeted drip irrigation. This community was in the middle of as desolate an area as I’ve ever seen, but the community was a sea of green and productive land. The program was a partnership between U.S. Food for Peace, Catholic Relief Services and the local Catholic Archdiocese. “These programs in Ethiopia became models for what we now call resilience – helping communities become self-sufficient and better able to withstand both the economic and the weather shocks that so afflict that region. When the most recent famine hit the Horn of Africa, these villages did not fail; they did not fall into hunger and starvation; they did not lose their livelihoods. And these successful programs served as the models for the creation of Feed the Future and the strengthening of our Food for Peace developmental programs. “I’ve worked closely with USDA and USAID to improve our programs, make them more efficient, more effective and better able to incorporate nutrition and resilience into every aspect of their programming. I admire how USDA and USAID now track and monitor our programs, so much more oversight than in the past. “Our response in November 2013 to Typhoon Haiyan that hit the Philippines is probably the clearest demonstration to how effective and how improved our emergency response programs now are. “Investing in these programs is also an investment in our national security. It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to know that when people can actually put food on the table for their children, make a living off the land and see a future for their family, they are less likely to take up arms against us or their neighbors. “We can be proud of these programs. We should be providing both USDA and USAID more support. And I urge all my colleagues on this panel to go and see first-hand the incredible diversity and success of our international food aid programs. They will make you wave the flag.” ###
06.24.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), welcomed the news that Boston 2024 has chosen the DCU Center in Worcester to host Olympic handball if Boston becomes the host city for the 2024 Olympic Games. In addition to the DCU Center, Boston 2024 also selected the Boston Convention & Exhibition Center and the Tsongas Center at UMass Lowell. Together, the three venues would host eight Olympic events. The DCU Center would host the men's and women's Olympic Handball events – about 76 games – with 330 athletes (180 men, 150 women) competing for six medals in front of as many as 988,000 spectators. Read more about the events here. “I am pleased that Boston 2024 selected the DCU Center as its venue for Olympic handball,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. “With its successful track record of hosting major events, the DCU Center is an ideal location for athletes and spectators alike. I am excited to welcome the world to our city and showcase the vast cultural, recreational and academic resources of Worcester and the Central Massachusetts region on the international stage.” “Our region is already home to many world-class venues, including several that strategically align with our vision for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Boston,” said Boston 2024 Partnership CEO Rich Davey. “We’re fortunate to tap into these well managed and easy-to-access facilities to showcase the best of our region in our opportunity to host the best sporting events in the world.” "We're pleased that Boston 2024 has listened to leaders across the Commonwealth and proposed expanding to other cities throughout the state,” said Worcester Mayor Joe Petty. “This is an opportunity to boost Worcester's economy and put our city on display to the world. I'm encouraged by Boston 2024's plans to host a community meeting and their commitment to hearing from the people who call this city their home. I look forward to engaging with Boston 2024 and all Worcester residents as this proposal continues to evolve." "We are honored to be among an elite group of host venues for the prestigious Olympic Games and, if selected, we are ready to do our part in ensuring that Boston 2024 is a successful and memorable event for all,” said Sandra Dunn, General Manager of the SMG-managed DCU Center. The DCU Center, located in Worcester, opened in 1982, added a convention center in 1997 and underwent a significant renovation and expansion in 2013. The DCU Center has hosted American Hockey League games, NCAA hockey, professional bull riding events, and continues to host annual concerts, family performances, tradeshows and other athletic events. ###
06.23.2015	Today in Congressman Jim McGovern’s (MA-02) #EndHungerNow speech on the House floor, he highlighted the impact of last year’s farm bill on families receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistant Program (SNAP) and Low-Income Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) benefits. As a result of a policy change to the relationship between SNAP and LIHEAP benefits in the 2014 farm bill, SNAP recipients are seeing their benefits cut. In his speech, Congressman McGovern highlighted the story of Judy Beals, a disabled senior from Belleville, Wisconsin, who saw her SNAP benefit cut from $120 a month to $16 a month. You can read more about her story here. “The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the change [in last year’s farm bill] would reduce benefits for about 850,000 low-income households by an average of $90 a month in the 14 states and the District of Columbia that took advantage of a state option to link LIHEAP and SNAP,” Congressman McGovern said. “These cuts are much more than just abstract numbers. We’re starting to hear real stories from real people who are seeing their SNAP benefits cut. Hunger is worse because of these cuts.” “Judy Beals, a disabled senior, from Belleville, Wisconsin…saw her SNAP benefit cut from $120 a month to $16 a month. $16 a month in food assistance. That is unconscionable. How can anyone afford to feed themselves for a month on that? She’s now forced to eat just once a day now that her SNAP benefit has been cut, as she tries to figure out how to pay her other bills,” McGovern added. “If we make further cuts to SNAP, we will no doubt hear of more stories like Ms. Beals’, where those who are already struggling to put food on their table see their food assistance benefits cut. The bottom line is that we should not be making hunger worse in this country.” The text of Congressman McGovern’s full floor speech is below. Full video here. As Prepared For Delivery: “M. Speaker, last Congress, we passed a new farm bill. As a member of the Agriculture Committee, I couldn’t support it, either in committee or on the House floor. I couldn’t support it because it cut SNAP – the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program – our nation’s premier anti-hunger program. I couldn’t support a bill that made hunger worse. “At the time, members – of both parties – offered many assurances that the changes to SNAP’s relationship with LIHEAP – the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program – wouldn’t hurt SNAP recipients. That the changes were merely “closing a loophole” rather than a true benefit cut. “I was skeptical of those assurances at the time -- and with good reason. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that the change would reduce benefits for about 850,000 low-income households by an average of $90 a month in the 14 states and the District of Columbia that took advantage of a state option to link LIHEAP and SNAP. States chose to use this option to alleviate some of the heartbreaking choices that poor families face. Seniors and the disabled are all too often the ones forced to choose between buying food or heating their homes or paying for their prescriptions. “Throughout the farm bill process, anti-hunger advocates in “heat and eat” states vigorously opposed the LIHEAP cuts to SNAP, saying that their effects would be much greater than the CBO estimate. And, I’m sorry to say, they were right. These cuts are much more than just abstract numbers. We’re starting to hear real stories from real people who are seeing their SNAP benefits cut. Hunger is worse because of these cuts. “Take Judy Beals, a disabled senior, from Belleville, Wisconsin. Earlier this year, she saw her SNAP benefit cut from $120 a month to $16 a month. Let me repeat that:$16 a month in food assistance. That is unconscionable. How can anyone afford to feed themselves for a month on that? “Ms. Beals says she’s now forced to eat just once a day now that her SNAP benefit has been cut, as she tries to figure out how to pay her other bills. “And to add insult to injury, Ms. Beals found out that her SNAP benefit had been cut at the register at the grocery store with a cart full of groceries. “M. Speaker, Ms. Beals’ story isn’t unique. The Hunger Task Force in Milwaukee estimates that in Wisconsin alone, 255,000 families have seen their SNAP benefits reduced since the LIHEAP cuts went into effect. “And, we’re hearing similar stories in New Jersey – another state that didn’t extend its “heat and eat” program. The Food Bank of South New Jersey estimates that 160,000 New Jersey residents have lost about $90 a month in SNAP benefits due to the farm bill cut. “Now to be fair, several states, including my home state of Massachusetts, did the right thing and found a way to make up the money lost by the LIHEAP cut in the farm bill. Republican and Democratic governors stepped up and recognized that those already struggling to put food on the table would be worse off if they didn’t find a way to fix the cut. “But in those states that didn’t make up the money, we’ll continue to hear stories of people who have seen their SNAP benefit cut. “M. Speaker, I’m proud to serve on the House Agriculture Committee. Since the beginning of this congress, the Committee has been conducting a “top-to-bottom” review of SNAP. “Now, I have no idea where these hearings are going and, once again, we’ve heard assurances that there will be no cuts to SNAP. But color me skeptical. “I have a sinking feeling in my stomach that these hearings are not leading to a place that is good for millions of struggling Americans. “SNAP is a good program. It is effective and efficient. SNAP is a program that works. “Instead of cutting SNAP or making other harmful policy changes, we should be strengthening the program. Democratic and Republican witnesses alike have testified before the Agriculture Committee that the SNAP benefit is already too low. We’ve heard that the certification and re-certification process is time consuming and onerous, especially for working families. “We’ve heard that charities alone cannot solve the problem of hunger. Charities do incredible work but they cannot meet the demand for food assistance. They need a strong federal partner. “We need better coordination among all stakeholders – federal agencies, non-profits, faith-based organizations and businesses – to end hunger. That’s why I’ve been advocating for a White House Conference on Food, Nutrition and Hunger. We need a coordinated holistic plan to end hunger now. “If we make further cuts to SNAP, we will no doubt hear of more stories like Ms. Beals’, where those who are already struggling to put food on their table see their food assistance benefits cut. “The bottom line is, M. Speaker, that we should not be making hunger worse in this country.” ###
06.19.2015	FITCHBURG, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) joined business and community leaders at the North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce (NCM) in Fitchburg to announce that the NCM’s Development Corporation has been designated by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) as a Microlender for local small businesses. The SBA presented the NCM’s Development Corporation with a check of $500,000 for the microloan program. “Supporting our small businesses is key to helping our community succeed. I’m proud to join Congresswoman Tsongas and all of our local leaders to celebrate this new opportunity for the North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce and our local businesses,” Congressman McGovern said. “Thanks to this partnership between the Small Business Administration and the Chamber, these microloans will help our entrepreneurs and small business owners who were previously unable to get a loan. They will now be able to get a loan of up to $50,000 and this will open the door to new opportunities for our community, create new jobs, and keep our economy strong and growing. I am grateful to the SBA for their leadership and for being a strong partner in supporting all of our small businesses here in Massachusetts.” The North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce’s Development Corporation will now be able to issue loans of up to $50,000 (microloans) to small businesses who were previously unable secure funding through traditional lenders. The microloans come with technical assistance to help ensure small businesses succeed and reduce the risk of default. The SBA Microloan program provides direct loans or grants to eligible non-profit microlenders so that they may provide micro-level loans, business training and technical assistance to start-up, newly established and growing small businesses. Joining McGovern and Tsongas at today’s event were Roy Nascimento, President of North Central MA Chamber of Commerce; Seth Goodall, New England Regional Administrator, Small Business Administration; Robert Nelson, Massachusetts Director, Small Business Administration; State Representative Stephen DiNatale; Fitchburg Mayor Lisa Wong; Leominster Mayor Dean Mazzarella; Ray Martino, President, Simonds International; Chairman, North Central Massachusetts Development Corporation Board of Directors, and other community leaders. ###
06.19.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined Worcester community leaders to participate in the first West Boylston Street Beautification Project and tree planting. Community members and volunteers came together to plant 30 trees along the stretch of West Boylston Street across from the Greendale Fire Station. “Today I am proud to join our great Worcester community to celebrate the first phase of the West Boylston Street Beautification Project and Tree Planting,” Congressman McGovern said. “We can already see the difference these beautiful trees will make and I want to thank all of our great leaders and volunteers who helped to make this possible. Projects like these will help us to sustain a vibrant neighborhood where businesses and families thrive. This is just the beginning and I look forward to working with our community to support many more projects like this.” “The work of the Worcester Tree Initiative continues to improve the landscape of our neighborhood and Saint-Gobain is honored to support and be a part of their effort,” said Bradley H. Johnson, vice president, Saint-Gobain Abrasives North America. Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s event were Worcester City Manager Ed Augustus, Jr., State Representative Jim O’Day, Worcester City Councilor Tony Economou, Worcester DPW Commissioner Paul Moosey, Pan Am Railways president David A. Fink, as well as volunteers and community members. ###
06.19.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined the MetroWest legislative delegation to announce they have worked successfully with the Baker-Polito administration and the Central MA Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) to restore the I-495/Rte. 9 project in their Long Range Transportation Plan, Mobility 2040. McGovern and the delegation welcomed MassDOT’s proposal to include the I-90/I-495 Interchange Improvements Project in the Capital Investment Plan (CIP). This outcome was reached after learning earlier this week that the projects were in jeopardy of being removed from the list of projects prioritized for state-wide infrastructure investment. “Supporting these infrastructure projects is key to growing the MetroWest economy. I am pleased that we were able to work with Secretary Pollack and the Baker-Polito Administration to re-prioritize these projects,” Congressman McGovern said. “Investing in Central Massachusetts helps to keep the region strong and growing. I was proud to work with my colleagues in Congress to secure the funding for the initial planning and design of the I-90/I-495 Interchange. This is a strong step and I look forward to seeing the continued progress of these infrastructure investments.” Senator Jamie Eldridge (D-Acton), and Rep. Carolyn Dykema (D-Holliston), Rep. Hannah Kane (R-Shrewsbury), Rep. Danielle Gregoire (D-Marlborough), Rep. Kate Hogan (D-Stow), Rep. David Linsky (D-Natick) and Rep. Chris Walsh (D-Framingham) advocated for the inclusion of these projects in the Central Massachusetts Long Range Transportation Plan in a June 17, 2015 letter to Transportation Secretary Stephanie Pollack. In the letter, which was presented at Wednesday’s MPO meeting in Worcester, legislators outlined concerns for safety, congestion, and economic potential of the region if these two crucial projects were removed from the list of priority investments. Congressman McGovern and the delegation worked with the 495/MetroWest Partnership and the community of Westborough to receive the support of the Baker-Polito administration for restoration of the projects to the list of regional priorities. At Wednesday’s meeting, Steve Woelfel of MassDOT assured those in attendance that the department continues to be committed to the I-90/I-495 Interchange Improvements Project. Following this statement, MassDOT provided funding options for the project stating the agency “will continue to work on this project’s planning, design and environmental” analysis. “The Baker / Polito Administration will continue to prioritize transportation investments like these that are important to regional economic activity. Advancing these two projects through to construction will require that we continue this strong federal, state, local, and regional partnership to create a 21st century transportation system throughout the Commonwealth,” said MassDOT Secretary and CEO Stephanie Pollack. “I would like to thank Secretary Pollack and the Baker-Polito Administration for their swift action in re-prioritizing these projects. Their commitment to the concerns of MetroWest communities is greatly appreciated,” stated Representative Carolyn Dykema. “The 495/9/90 Interchanges are the most highly trafficked in the region and these improvements are essential for the quality of life, safety, and continued economic growth in MetroWest. While there are still many details that remain, retaining the projects as regional priorities is an important step.” “Restoration of the 495/90 and 495/9 interchange improvements projects is critical to the MetroWest and Central MA regional economies and necessary to alleviate the significant congestion and safety concerns with the current infrastructure,” stated Representative Hannah Kane. “I am grateful that the Baker-Polito Administration and Secretary Pollack worked quickly to reaffirm to the delegation and the communities in the corridor that these projects were still a priority. The administrations immediate response is indicative of their commitment to be a partner to communities and illustrates a willingness to prioritize infrastructure improvements outside of Rt. 128 belt.” "I'm pleased that Governor Baker's Central Mass MPO representative, Steve Woelfel of MassDOT Planning, expressed support for increased state investment in the 495/9 and 495/90 interchange improvements," said State Senator Jamie Eldridge . "I want to express my deep appreciation to the 495/Metrowest Partnership, and my colleagues in the Metrowest Legislative Caucus for reminding the Baker-Polito administration of the importance of providing state funding to these two critical road improvement projects." “We greatly appreciate the Baker-Polito Administration’s and Secretary Pollack’s commitment to these projects, which have been regional priorities for over a decade,” noted Jessica Strunkin, Deputy Director of the 495/MetroWest Partnership. “The 495/9/90 interchanges are critical to the 495/MetroWest economy, which is responsible for over $21 billion in annual payroll and 1 out of every 11 jobs in the Commonwealth.” Both projects were listed on the 495/MetroWest Region’s Top Ten Transportation Nightmares in 2014 and also in 2004. ###
06.18.2015	FITCHBURG, MA – Tomorrow, June 19th, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) will join business and community leaders at the North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce (NCM) in Fitchburg to announce that NCM has been designated by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) as a Microlender for local small businesses. The North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce will now be able to loan funds up to $50,000 (microloans) to small businesses that were denied by banks or only issued a partial amount of needed funds. The microloans come with technical assistance to help ensure more small businesses succeed and help reduce the risk of default. SBA will be presenting a $500,000 check to NCM. The SBA Microloan program provides direct loans or grants to eligible non-profit microlenders so that they may provide micro-level loans, business training and technical assistance to start-up, newly established and growing small businesses. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (MA-03) Roy Nascimento, President of North Central MA Chamber of Commerce Seth Goodall, New England Regional Administrator, Small Business Administration Robert Nelson, Massachusetts Director, Small Business Administration State Representative Stephen DiNatale, Mayor Lisa Wong, City of Fitchburg Mayor Dean Mazzarella, City of Leominster Ray Martino, President, Simonds International; Chairman, North Central Massachusetts Development Corporation Board of Directors WHAT: Press Conference Announcing NCM as an SBA Microlender for Small Businesses WHERE: North Central Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce, 860 South Street, Fitchburg WHEN: Friday, June 19, 2015 at 3:00PM – 4:00PM ###
06.18.2015	Tomorrow, June 19th, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will join Worcester community leaders to participate in the first West Boylston Street Beautification Project and tree planting. Community members and volunteers will come together to plant 30 trees along the stretch of West Boylston Street across from the Greendale Fire Station. This event will be the first of what Congressman McGovern hopes will be many beautification projects along West Boylston Street. Congressman McGovern will thank all the community leaders and members who made this project possible and all parties will participate in the planting of the final tree of the thirty trees to be planted. WHO: Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) Worcester City Manager Ed Augustus, Jr. State Representative Jim O’Day Worcester City Councilor Tony Economou Worcester DPW Commissioner Paul Moosey Pan Am Railways president David A. Fink WHAT: Commemoration of West Boylston Street Beautification and Tree Planting WHERE: In front of Greendale Fire Station, 438 West Boylston Street, Worcester WHEN: Friday, June 19, 2015 at 1:00 PM ###
06.17.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, is leading debate on the House floor ahead of a vote on H. Con. Res. 55, his bipartisan resolution that would force Congress to debate an Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) for U.S. military engagement against ISIS. “For over 10 months, the United States has been engaged in hostilities in Iraq and Syria without debating an authorization for this war,” Congressman McGovern said. “Over 4 months ago, the President sent to Congress the text for an Authorization for the Use of Military Force on combating the Islamic State in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere, yet Congress has failed to act on that AUMF, or bring an alternative to the House floor, even though we continue to authorize and appropriate money for sustained military operations in those countries. “If Congress had lived up to its responsibilities, we wouldn’t need to be so blunt,” McGovern added. “Congress needs a clear deadline for a debate an AUMF for Iraq and Syria. That deadline is the withdrawal of our troops by the end of this year. It gives this House, this Republican Leadership, six entire months to get an AUMF enacted. It gives this House, this Leadership, six more months in which to simply do their job.” Today’s debate and vote comes less than two weeks after the bipartisan concurrent resolution, under the provisions of the War Powers Resolution, was introduced by McGovern along with Reps. Walter Jones (R-NC) and Barbara Lee (D-CA). McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress calling for House Republican Leadership to honor their Constitutional duty as the leaders of the House to bring to the floor an AUMF for a debate and vote. McGovern introduced a similar resolution in July 2014 and a revised version of that resolution passed with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 370-40, but the House Republican Leadership has refused to bring an AUMF to the floor for a vote in the 10 months since U.S. combat operations began – even after President Obama sent a draft AUMF request in February. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “M. Chairman, I rise in support of H. Con. Res. 55, which comes before the House today under the provisions of the War Powers Resolution. Along with my colleagues Walter Jones and Barbara Lee, we introduced this bipartisan bill to force a debate on how Congress has failed to carry out its Constitutional duty to authorize our military engagement in Iraq and Syria. “Last August, the President authorized airstrikes against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. For over 10 months, the United States has been engaged in hostilities in Iraq and Syria without debating an authorization for this war. On February 11th this year, over 4 months ago, the President sent to Congress the text for an Authorization for the Use of Military Force on combating the Islamic State in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere, yet Congress has failed to act on that AUMF, or bring an alternative to the House floor, even though we continue to authorize and appropriate money for sustained military operations in those countries. “This is unacceptable. This House appears to have no problem sending our uniformed men and women into harm’s way; it appears to have no problem spending billions of dollars for the arms, equipment and airpower to carry out these wars; but it just can’t bring itself to step up to the plate and take responsibility for these wars. “Our service men and women are brave and dedicated. Congress, however, is guilty of moral cowardice. The Republican Leadership of this House whines and complains from the sidelines, and all the while it shirks its Constitutional duties to bring an AUMF to the floor of this House, debate it and vote on it. “This resolution requires the President to withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq and Syria within 30 days or no later than the end of this year, December 31, 2015. If this House approves this resolution, Congress would still have 6 months in which to do the right thing and bring an AUMF before the House and Senate for debate and action. Either Congress needs to live up to its responsibilities and authorize this war, or by its continuing neglect and indifference, our troops should be withdrawn and come home. It’s that simple. “Two weeks ago, General John Allen, the U.S. envoy for the U.S.-led coalition fighting ISIL, said that this fight may take ‘a generation or more.’ And according to the Pentagon, we have spent more than $2.74 billion in the fight against the Islamic State. That’s roughly $9.1 million each and every day. We have approximately 3500 boots on the ground and that number is rising. “If we are going to invest a generation or more of our blood and our treasure in this war; and if we’re going to continue to tell our Armed Forces that we expect them to fight and die in these wars; it seems to me the least we can do is stand up and vote to authorize these wars, or we should end them. We owe that to the American people; we owe that to our troops and their families; and we owe that to the oath of office each of us took to uphold the Constitution of the United States. “M. Chairman, we’re going to hear all kinds of crazy today about this resolution. Some Members will say that it demands the withdrawal of our troops in 30 days. Well that’s true if you only read half a sentence in the bill; the other half makes clear the President has until the end of the year to withdraw our troops. “Some Members will claim this resolution will undercut our troops while they are carrying out bombing campaigns and training Iraqi and Syrian soldiers under dangerous conditions. They will claim it will deny the Iraqis and the Kurds our critical support in the fight against the brutal terror and threat of ISIS. They will claim it will leave ISIS unchecked by U.S. airpower and allow them to overrun the region. “The truth is that it is precisely these threats and challenges that make this debate so urgent. With such compelling issues at hand, how can Congress stand by and do nothing? How can Congress not have this debate and vote on an authorization for this war? “By setting a clear deadline Congress cannot ignore, this resolution provides a strong guarantee that Congress will finally do its job. That Congress will honor its duty to our troops and all Americans by debating and voting on an authorization for this war. Our troops deserve a Congress that has the courage to stand with them. “I see the courage and sacrifice of our uniformed men and women, but I see nothing but cowardice from the House Republican leadership of this Congress. If they believe we should send our military forces to Iraq and Syria to fight ISIS and possibly die over there, then for heaven’s sake, we should do our duty; we should do our job; and bring an AUMF to the House floor, debate it and take some responsibility for this war. “That’s all this resolution is trying to do. Give the House Republican leadership a deadline that even they can’t ignore – either enact an AUMF over the next 6 months or withdraw our forces from Iraq and Syria. One or the other. “M. Chairman, I am deeply troubled by our policy in Iraq and Syria. I do not believe it is a clearly defined mission – and I fear it might be just more of the same. I am not convinced that by enlarging our military footprint, we will end the violence in the region; defeat the Islamic State; or address the underlying causes of the unrest. “But regardless of whether you support the war or oppose the war, believe we should escalate our involvement or place restrictions on it, the bottom line is that Congress needs to debate an AUMF and vote on it. “That’s our duty. That’s our job. And if we don’t have the guts to do so, then we should at least have the decency to bring our troops home to their families and loved ones. “I hope each Member of this House, before they come down to the floor to vote on this resolution, takes a minute to look in the mirror. Ask yourself: Why do we get to go home to our families when our troops don’t have that privilege? They have been sent to Iraq and Syria to fight in our name, but we don’t have the courage to stand up for them and authorize the war – and we don’t have the guts to bring them home? “Take a minute and ask: We’re willing to send our troops into danger; we’re willing to spend billions upon billions of borrowed money for this war; but we’re not willing to carry out our Constitutional duty, the same Constitution we keep asking our troops to put their lives on the line to protect? How can we keep asking them to sacrifice for us, when we’re not willing to put anything on the line for them? “This resolution is, I admit, a bit of a blunt instrument. But if Congress had lived up to its responsibilities, we wouldn’t need to be so blunt. Congress needs a clear deadline for a debate on an AUMF for Iraq and Syria. That deadline is the withdrawal of our troops by the end of this year. It gives this House, this Republican Leadership, six entire months to get an AUMF enacted. It gives this House, this Leadership, six more months in which to simply do their job. “A vote for this resolution is not a vote to pull out. It’s a vote to give the House Republican leadership a deadline they can’t ignore. To force them to do their duty as the leaders of this House by finally bringing an AUMF to the floor for a vote. “I urge my colleagues to vote in support of H. Con. Res. 55, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
06.13.2015	GRAFTON, MA – Today, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) toured the Community Harvest Project and hosted a roundtable on The Farm to Health Center Initiative and its work to reduce hunger and enhance positive medical outcomes for low-income families in Central Massachusetts. Joining Leader Pelosi and Congressman McGovern were Jodi Koeman, Executive Director of Community Harvest Project, and leaders from The Farm to Health Center Initiative, the Worcester County Food Bank, the Family Health Center of Worcester, as well as state and local leaders. “I am proud of the efforts of these organizations, Congressman McGovern and House Democrats in championing and leading the efforts to end hunger across the country," said Leader Nancy Pelosi. "It is our moral obligation to ensure that no child goes to bed hungry at night, seniors can rely on their next meal, and struggling families can put food on the table.” “Today is my third visit to the Community Harvest Project and with each visit I am more impressed. This farm is a wonderful place where the community truly comes together. The fresh fruits and vegetables grown here help to put food on the table for so many of our families in need and this is all possible thanks to dedicated leaders and the volunteers who help to farm these crops every year,” Congressman Jim McGovern said. “Our community is stronger when every family has access to healthy food and by helping to make that a reality, this project is a model for communities across the country. Leader Pelosi is a tremendous champion for everyday Americans. I am grateful to have her join us here today and I am proud to have her as a partner in Congress standing up for important projects like this. I also want to thank Jodi Koeman and everyone here for all their work to make the Community Harvest Project and The Farm to Health Initiative possible.” “We were excited to host Congressmen McGovern and Leader Pelosi at Community Harvest Project to show them first hand the work we do to bring the community together for hunger relief,” said Jodi Koeman, Executive Director. “We are proud to highlight the Farm to Health Center Initiative. This initiative is a great example of how organizations can collaborate to improve access to healthy fresh fruits and vegetables which affects the overall health of individuals and families struggling with food insecurity." The Farm to Health Center Initiative is a collaboration between the Community Harvest Project, UMass Medical School students, and Family Health Center of Worcester (FHCW) physicians. The project is aimed at reducing rates of food insecurity by increasing patient access to and consumption of fresh produce. The Community Harvest Project, in collaboration with University of Massachusetts Medical School and the Family Health Center of Worcester, has served as a model for innovative community-based solutions to increase access to fresh, high-quality and nutritional food to patients and over 99,000 of the most food insecure residents of Massachusetts. Today’s event highlighted the important connection between healthy food, healthy lifestyles and healthy communities for the future of our children, seniors, hardworking families and our country. At a time when House Republicans are assaulting the food safety net, Leader Pelosi, Congressman McGovern and House Democrats are working to ensure that no child is hungry, that seniors aren’t choosing between food and medicine, and that struggling families can put food on their tables. Congressman McGovern, as Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Nutrition, has been a leading champion in Congress in the push to reduce hunger in Worcester County and across the country, raising awareness through his regular #EndHungerNow speeches on the House floor. ###
06.11.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced the Massachusetts winners of $148,000 in grants from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to support renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. Nationwide the USDA will award $6.7 million in grants to 544 energy projects across the country. These awards are part of the USDA’s Rural Development Rural Energy for America Program (REAP). “Our farmers and small business owners are the lifeblood of our economy. By investing in renewable energy projects in Central and Western Massachusetts, these grants will help our farmers and small businesses save money, create jobs, strengthen conservation, and continue to move our country toward energy independence,” Congressman McGovern said. “I am grateful to Secretary Vilsack for recognizing the great work our Massachusetts communities are leading in renewable energy.” Massachusetts awardees include Applefield Farms, Inc. in Stow; Clarkdale Fruit Farms, Inc. in Deerfield; The Kitchen Garden, LLC in Templeton; Bedford Blueberry Goat Farm LP in Bedford, Clark Brothers Orchards, LLC in Ashfield, Wenham Pond Cranberry, Inc. in Wareham; Thomas Bohan in New Braintree, Jonathan Carr in Hadley, Walter Czajkowski in Hadley, and Bruce Scherer in Orange. Congressman McGovern has long been a strong supporter of REAP its continued investment in Massachusetts. REAP was created by the 2002 Farm Bill and was reauthorized by the 2014 Farm Bill. REAP funding has helped farmers expand renewable energy use in recent years. The new Census of Agriculture shows the number of farms utilizing renewable energy production has doubled in the last five years. Since 2009, USDA has awarded $545 million to support more than 8,800 REAP projects nationwide. This includes $361 million in grants and loans for almost 2,900 renewable energy systems. For the remaining 5,900 projects, USDA provided $184 million to help rural small businesses and agricultural producers make energy efficiency improvements such as lighting; heating, ventilation and cooling; irrigation; insulation and motor replacements. When fully operational, these projects are estimated to generate and save 7.3 billion kilowatt hours of electricity annually – enough to power more than 660,000 homes for a year. Eligible agricultural producers and rural small businesses may use REAP funds to make energy efficiency improvements or install renewable energy systems, including solar, wind, renewable biomass (including anaerobic digesters), small hydroelectric, ocean energy, hydrogen and geothermal. Click here for the full awards list. ###
06.11.2015	This Saturday, June 13 at 12:30 p.m., House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) will join local leaders to tour the Community Harvest Project (CHP) in Grafton and host a roundtable on The Farm to Health Center Initiative (FHCI) and its work to reduce hunger and enhance positive medical outcomes for low-income families in Central Massachusetts. The Farm to Health Center Initiative is a collaboration between CHP, UMass Medical School (UMMS) students, and Family Health Center of Worcester (FHCW) physicians. The project is aimed at reducing rates of food insecurity by increasing patient access to and consumption of fresh produce. At a time when House Republicans are assaulting the food safety net, Congressman McGovern and House Democrats are working to ensure that no child is hungry, that seniors aren’t choosing between food and medicine, and that struggling families can put food on their tables. The Community Harvest Project, in collaboration with University of Massachusetts Medical School and the Family Health Center of Worcester, has served as a model for innovative community-based solutions to increase access to fresh, high-quality and nutritional food to patients and over 99,000 of the most food insecure residents of Massachusetts. Leader Pelosi, Rep. McGovern and Executive Director Jodi Koeman will highlight the important connection between healthy food, healthy lifestyles and healthy communities for the future of our children, seniors, hardworking families and our country. A full list of roundtable and event participants is below. WHO: House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Congressman Jim McGovern CHP Executive Director Jodi Koeman FHCI founders Kathryn Bailey, Rachel Erdil, and Liz Rosen WCFB Executive Director Jean McMurray FHCW Vice President Noreen Johnson Smith State and Local Leaders Area Health Center Directors Local Hospital Executives Members of Congressman McGovern’s Congressional Youth Caucus WHAT: Tour and Roundtable Discussion on The Farm to Health Center Initiative WHERE: Community Harvest Project / Brigham Hill Community Farm Conference Room, 37 Wheeler Road, North Grafton, MA 01536 WHEN: Saturday, June 13th, 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Congressman McGovern, as Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Nutrition, has been a leading champion in Congress in the push to reduce hunger in Worcester County and across the country, raising awareness through his regular #EndHungerNow speeches on the House floor. For more information and to RSVP, please contact Abraham White at abraham.white@mail.house.gov. ###
06.10.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Nutrition Subcommittee, delivered the following opening statement at this morning’s House Agriculture Committee hearing entitled: “Past, Present, and Future of SNAP: The Means to Climbing the Economic Ladder.” “It should be clear to everyone on this Committee who has sat through at least five SNAP hearings already – that SNAP is something that is working,” Congressman McGovern said. “Time and time again, we’ve heard from witnesses – both Democratic and Republican – that SNAP is a good program. It’s efficient and effective. “We’re told by charities and non-profits that they cannot feed the hungry on their own; they need a strong federal partner,” McGovern added. “They urged us not to cut SNAP – and, in fact, they urged us to strengthen the program […] In the past couple of years, this Congress has cut SNAP, demagogued poor people and increased hunger in America. I think enough damage has been done.” Congressman McGovern’s full opening statement is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “There’s lots of wrong in the world for us to do endless hearings on. But, it should be clear to everyone on this Committee who has sat through at least five SNAP hearings already – that SNAP is something that is working. Time and time again, we’ve heard from witnesses – both Democratic and Republican – that SNAP is a good program. It’s efficient and effective. “And we’re told by charities and non-profits that they cannot feed the hungry on their own; they need a strong federal partner. They urged us not to cut SNAP – and, in fact, they urged us to strengthen the program by making it easier for eligible people to enroll and re-enroll in the program. “And – let’s be clear – while today’s hearing is entitled “Past, Present, and Future of SNAP: The Means to Climbing the Economic Ladder” – SNAP is a food program – it’s not a jobs program or a housing program. “Two-thirds of SNAP recipients are kids, seniors or the disabled – most of whom are not expected to work – unless some here want to repeal child labor laws or force grandma back to work. “Of those who can work – the majority do work. But here’s the thing that should really trouble all my colleagues – there are those who work full time in this country and earn so little that they still qualify for SNAP! “And no matter how much you want to tweak, change or supposedly want to reform SNAP – the only way to solve that problem is by increasing wages. And while you’re at it – we should adequately fund job training programs so there are enough slots for people who need them. “I have no idea where these hearings are leading to. But I have a sinking feeling in my stomach that they’re not leading to a place that’s good for millions of struggling Americans. We need better coordination amongst federal agencies. We need to overcome silo mentality and we need a more comprehensive approach to ending poverty. Quite frankly it requires a discussion beyond just the Agriculture Committee. “In the past couple of years, this Congress has cut SNAP, demagogued poor people and increased hunger in America. “I think enough damage has been done.” ###
06.05.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, released the following statement in response to the release of a series of new reports from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) on truck size and weight. These reports were required by (MAP-21), the most recent surface transportation reauthorization bill, which was passed by Congress in 2012. The reports released today found “very significant data limitations” that hampered DOT’s ability to conduct a full analysis of how bigger trucks would impact U.S. highways and roads and recommend no changes to current size and weight limits for trucks. Today’s release comes as Congress prepares to vote on H.R. 2577, the FY 2016 Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill. ”Keeping Americans safe on the road should be a top priority for Congress, but too often special interests like the trucking industry get to write the rules in transportation bills,” Congressman McGovern said. “I’ve been eagerly awaiting this comprehensive study on truck size and weight required by MAP-21 because this will help us to put Americans’ safety first. Today’s study shows that we simply don’t have enough reliable data to fully understand the economic and safety impact of big trucks on our roads and bridges. As Congress prepares to vote on T-HUD, we have to accept the fact that without the data we need, it is irresponsible to allow bigger and heavier trucks on our highways.” Earlier this week, Congressman McGovern spoke on the House floor calling for the defeat of policy riders in the FY 2016 T-HUD bill that cater to the trucking industry by allowing bigger and heavier trucks on the road. The DOT reports released today take a comprehensive look at the current state of America’s bridges and roads and the impacts of vehicles of various sizes and weights – including those vehicles currently operating above Federal truck size and weight limits. For more information about the reports released today, click here. ###
06.05.2015	WORCESTER, MA – Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) applauded the opening of the newly renovated Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) station at Worcester Regional Airport (ORH). Congressman McGovern helped to secure $3 million in funding from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for the project. Combined with $2.5 million from Massport, the project’s funding and completion marks another safety enhancement made since Massport took ownership of the airport in 2010. “Improving and strengthening infrastructure at the Worcester Regional Airport has been a top priority for me and I am pleased we were able to secure the funding that made this renovation possible,” Congressman McGovern said. “In recent years, we have seen a revitalized airport that has already pumped roughly $350 million into our economy and made it easier for our community to travel. I look forward to continuing to work with Massport, local officials and my federal colleagues to support Worcester Regional Airport’s continued growth and success.” “The Baker-Polito Administration is committed to the safety of the residents of the Commonwealth,’’ said Lt. Governor Karyn Polito. “Worcester Regional Airport is the gateway to the heart of the Commonwealth and we appreciate this effort to make a safe facility even safer.’’ “Safety and security are Massport’s top priority and these upgrades allow our firefighters to provide a greater level of service to ORH customers and carriers,” said Massport CEO Thomas P. Glynn. “We will continue to invest in the airport because it is an economic engine for Central Massachusetts and provides convenient access to the national air system for the people in this region.” Upgrades to the facility include: Renovated the existing Old Tower Building into an ARFF Station that will meet current FAA ARFF Program Guidelines; Provided much needed repairs to the building envelope and replacement of deteriorated building systems; A full remediation of the building to remove all hazardous materials and demolish the obsolete Control Tower to make way for a new roof for the entire building; Bigger bays better accommodate larger and more modern safety equipment including two (2) 3,000 gallon ARFF vehicles Office space for essential airport safety and security functions, staff, offices and equipment New interior layout designed to meet FAA standards for ARFF structures. New doors and windows to improve energy efficiency within the building; Congressman McGovern has been a strong champion of the Worcester Regional Airport and the revitalization effort led by local leaders. Massport estimates Worcester Regional Airport will generate $369 million of economic activity over the next 10 years. Massport commissioned Frasca & Associates, L.L.C. in 2013 to assess the ten year economic impacts anticipated from new airline service by JetBlue Airways and Massport’s current and future investments in the airport. The study examined the direct and induced aviation-related economic impacts these activities will have to the Central Massachusetts regional economy. Massport continues to move forward with the installation of a Category III instrument landing system at the airport to make a safe facility even safer. The so-called CAT III system will be purchased and installed by Massport and operated and maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration; it allows for landings in near zero visibility weather conditions. The system, which will cost some $30 million, will be installed over the next few years. ###
06.04.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA), second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, was joined by Reps. Walter Jones (R-NC) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) in introducing a bipartisan concurrent resolution (PDF) under the provisions of the War Powers Resolution, to force the House to debate on whether U.S. troops should withdraw from Iraq and Syria. This resolution can be brought up for a vote the week of June 22. McGovern has been a leading voice in Congress calling for House Republican Leadership to honor their Constitutional duty as the leaders of the House to bring to the floor a vote on the Authorization of the Use of Military Force (AUMF) on the U.S. mission to combat the Islamic State in Iraq, Syria, and elsewhere. McGovern introduced a similar resolution in July 2014 and a revised version of that resolution passed with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 370-40, but the House Republican Leadership has refused to bring an AUMF to the floor for a vote in the 10 months since U.S. combat operations began – even after President Obama sent a draft AUMF request in February. The full text of Congressman McGovern’s speech is below. As Prepared For Delivery: M. Speaker, today, along with my colleagues Walter Jones (R-NC) and Barbara Lee (D-CA), I introduced H. Con. Res. 55 in order to force this House and this Congress to debate on whether U.S. troops should withdraw from Iraq and Syria. We introduced this resolution under the provisions of section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution. As all of my House colleagues know, last year, the President authorized airstrikes against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria on August 7th. For over 10 months, the United States has been engaged in hostilities in Iraq and Syria without debating an authorization for this war. On February 11th this year, nearly 4 months ago, the President sent to Congress the text for an Authorization for the Use of Military Force – or an AUMF – on combating the Islamic State in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere, yet Congress has failed to act on that AUMF, or bring an alternative to the House floor, even though we continue to authorize and appropriate the money required for sustained military operations in those countries. Frankly speaking, M. Speaker, this is unacceptable. This House appears to have no problem sending our uniformed men and women into harm’s way; it appears to have no problem spending billions of dollars for the arms, equipment and airpower to carry out these wars; but it just can’t bring itself to step up to the plate and take responsibility for these wars. Our servicemen and servicewomen are brave and dedicated. Congress, however, is the poster child for cowardice. The Leadership of this House whines and complains from the sidelines, and all the while it shirks its Constitutional duties to bring an AUMF to the floor of this House, debate it and vote on it. Our resolution, which will come before this House for consideration in 15 calendar days, requires the President to withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq and Syria within 30 days or no later than the end of this year, December 31, 2015. If this House approves this resolution, Congress would still have 6 months in which to do the right thing and bring an AUMF before the House and Senate for debate and action. Either Congress needs to live up to its responsibilities and authorize this war, or by its continuing neglect and indifference, our troops should be withdrawn and come home. It’s that simple. I am deeply troubled by our policy in Iraq and Syria. I do not believe it is a clearly defined mission – with a beginning, a middle and an end – but rather, just more of the same. I am not convinced that by enlarging our military footprint, we will end the violence in the region; defeat the Islamic State; or address the underlying causes of the unrest. It’s a complicated situation that requires a complicated and more imaginative response. I’m also concerned by recent statements by the Administration about how long we will be engaged in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere fighting the Islamic State. Just yesterday, on June 3rd, General John Allen, the U.S. envoy for the U.S.-led coalition fighting ISIL, said that this fight may take “a generation or more.” He was speaking in Doha, Qatar at the U.S.-Islamic World Forum. M. Speaker, if we are going to invest a generation or more of our blood and our treasure in this war, then shouldn’t Congress at least debate whether or not to authorize it? According to the National Priorities Project, based in Northampton, Massachusetts, in my Congressional district, every single hour the taxpayers of the United States are paying $3.42 million for military actions against the Islamic State. $3.42 million every hour, M. Speaker. This is on top of the hundreds of billions of tax dollars spent on the first war in Iraq. And nearly every single penny of this war chest was borrowed money, put on the national credit card – provided as so-called emergency funds that don’t have to be accounted for or subject to budget caps like all other funds. Why is it, M. Speaker, that we always seem to have plenty of money or the will to borrow all the money it takes to carry out wars? But somehow, we never have any money to invest in our schools, our highways and water systems, or our children, families and communities? Every day this Congress is forced to make tough, serious, painful decisions to deprive our domestic economy and priorities of the resources they need to succeed. But somehow, there’s always money for more wars. Well, if we’re going to continue to spend billions on war; and if we’re going to continue to tell our Armed Forces that we expect them to fight and die in these wars; then it seems to me the least we can do is stand up and vote to authorize these wars, or we should end them. We owe that to the American people; we owe that to our troops and their families; and we owe that to the oath of office each of us took to uphold the Constitution of the United States. I want to be clear, M. Speaker. I can no longer criticize the President, the Pentagon or the State Department when it comes to taking responsibility for this war against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. I may not agree with the policy, but they have done their duty. At every step of the way, beginning on June 16, 2014, the President has informed Congress of his actions to send U.S. troops to Iraq and Syria and to carry out military operations against the Islamic State. And on February 11th of this year, he sent Congress the draft text of an AUMF. M. Speaker, while I disagree with the policy, the Administration has done its job. It has kept the Congress informed, and as military operations continued to escalate, they sent a request for an AUMF to the Congress for action. It is this Congress – this House – that has failed, and failed miserably, to carry out its duties. Always complaining from the sidelines, the Leadership of this House failed to act last year to authorize this war, even as it escalated and expanded nearly every month. The Speaker said it wasn’t the responsibility of the 113th Congress to act, even though the war started during its tenure. No! No! Somehow it was the responsibility of the next Congress, the 114th Congress. Well, the 114th Congress convened on January 6th and it still hasn’t done a single, solitary thing to authorize the war against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The Speaker asserted that Congress couldn’t act on the war until the President sent an AUMF to Congress. Well, M. Speaker, the President did just that on February 11th – and still the Leadership of this House has done nothing to authorize the use of military force in Iraq and Syria. And now, the Speaker is saying he wants the President to send Congress another version of the AUMF because he doesn’t like the first one. Are you kidding me? Well, I’m sorry, Mr. Speaker, it doesn’t work that way. If the Leadership of this House doesn’t like the original text of the President’s AUMF, then it is the job of Congress to draft an alternative, report that revised AUMF out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, bring it the floor of the House, and let the Members of this House debate and vote on it. That’s how it works. If you think the President’s AUMF is too weak, then make it stronger. If you think it’s too expansive, then set limits on it. And if you’re opposed to these wars, then vote to bring our troops home. In a nutshell, do your job. It doesn’t matter if it’s hard work. That’s what we are here to do. That’s what we are charged under the Constitution to do. And that’s why Members of Congress get a paycheck from the American people every week – to make the hard decisions, not run away from them. All I ask, M. Speaker, is for Congress to do its job. That’s the duty of this House and of the Majority in charge of this House – to simply do its job; to govern, M. Speaker. But instead, all we witness is dithering, and twiddling, and complaining, and whining, and blaming others, and the complete and total shirking of responsibility, over and over and over again. Enough! So, with great reluctance and frustration, Representatives Jones, Lee and I have introduced H. Con. Res. 55. Because if this House doesn’t have the stomach to carry out its Constitutional duty to debate and authorize this latest war, then we should bring our troops home. If the cowardly Congress can go home each night to their families and loved ones, then our brave troops should receive the same privilege. Doing nothing is easy. And I’m sad to say, war has become easy; too easy. But the costs, in terms of blood and treasure, are very high. I urge all my colleagues to support this resolution and demand that the Leadership of this House bring to the floor of this House an AUMF for the war against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria before Congress adjourns on June 26th for the 4th of July recess. Congress needs to debate an AUMF, M. Speaker. It just needs to do its job. ###
06.03.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, spoke on the House floor to call out House Republicans for using H.R. 2289, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) reauthorization bill, to undermine the Commission’s ability to enforce protections put in place by the Dodd-Frank Act that would help to keep the financial industry accountable and prevent another financial crisis. “Since my friends on the other side of the aisle assumed the majority, they have made it their mission to undermine the Dodd-Frank Act and hamstring the ability of our regulators to put in place strong rules to prevent another financial crisis,” Congressman McGovern said. “Congress has not done its part to provide the agency with the resources it needs to police these incredibly complex markets, populated by highly sophisticated and extremely powerful entities. Remember AIG, the insurer brought down by derivatives trades that the CFTC is now policing? If that memory is fuzzy, I’m sure you remember the funds we provided to bail AIG out – that came to a total of $67.8 billion,” McGovern added. “That would be enough to fund the CFTC at the level requested in the President’s budget for over two hundred years. “The Commission needs a Reauthorization, but it certainly doesn’t need one saddled with changes that will hamstring its internal operations, prolong its rulemakings through an inflexible cost benefit analysis requirement that opens it to litigation risk, and force it to allow a race to the bottom on international rules governing a global market.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “Today I rise in strong opposition to this rule and the underlying legislation. “Since my friends on the other side of the aisle assumed the majority, they have made it their mission to undermine the Dodd-Frank Act and hamstring the ability of our regulators to put in place strong rules to prevent another financial crisis. “And this legislation is no exception. “H.R. 2289 reauthorizes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission through 2019, while making substantial changes to the CFTC’s internal operations and rolling back key Dodd-Frank provisions intended to strengthen our financial regulatory framework. “I have specific concerns with the new cost benefit requirements imposed in Title II of the legislation. The CFTC already conducts cost-benefit analyses on its rulemakings, and this provision could significantly slow down the rulemaking process while also creating openings that will put the CFTC at the risk of increased litigation. “Title II of H.R. 2289 also proposes several unnecessary changes to the Commission’s internal operations that could make it more difficult to manage the agency. “According to CFTC Chairman Massad, the provisions contained in Title II could weaken the Commission’s ability to respond in a timely and effective manner. For example, if these measures were currently in place, it would have made it more difficult for the Agency to positively respond over the past 10 months to concerns raised by market participants. “Also included in this bill are substantial changes to rulemakings taking place at the Commission under the Dodd-Frank Act. “I’m particularly concerned by the Cross-Border language contained in the bill, which will undercut the efforts already underway by the Commission to negotiate on an international system of safe and robust derivatives rules that are necessary to apply to the global derivatives market. H.R. 2289 requires the CFTC to create a rule that will automatically allow U.S. banks and foreign banks conducting business in the U.S. to do so under the rules imposed by foreign jurisdictions – all of which are currently more lenient than our own. We’ve seen this kind of race to the bottom before, and we know how it ends. “Worse yet, is that this legislation hamstrings an agency that is already woefully underfunded. “The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the CFTC will need 30 additional personnel annually to handle the increased workload imposed by both the new Cost Benefit Analysis requirements and the mandated Cross Border rule contained in this legislation. Will my friends on the other side of the aisle provide the necessary funding increases to the CFTC to carry out these requirements? “I doubt it. “Dodd-Frank significantly expanded the CFTC’s role in overseeing our financial markets, and they have already completed over 80 percent of their required rulemakings, the best rate of any financial regulator. They have done so, despite the fact that Congress has not done its part to provide the agency with the resources it needs to police these incredibly complex markets, populated by highly sophisticated and extremely powerful entities. Remember AIG, the insurer brought down by derivatives trades that the CFTC is now policing? If that memory is fuzzy, I’m sure you remember the funds we provided to bail AIG out – that came to a total of $67.8 billion. That would be enough to fund the CFTC at the level requested in the President’s budget for over two hundred years. “The Commission needs a Reauthorization, but it certainly doesn’t need one saddled with changes that will hamstring its internal operations, prolong its rulemakings through an inflexible cost benefit analysis requirement that opens it to litigation risk, and force it to allow a race to the bottom on international rules governing a global market. “I ask my colleagues to join me in opposing this rule and the underlying legislation.” ###
06.02.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, spoke on the House floor to denounce provisions in the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) and Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) appropriations bills that would undermine the progress of recent efforts by President Obama to normalize U.S.-Cuba relations. “Today I want to express my concern about the dangerous and backward-thinking policies being pushed by conservative hardliners in the both the CJS and T-HUD appropriations bills,” Congressman McGovern said. “Obviously there are some members here who are nostalgic for the Cold War and policies of the past. Thanks to the leadership of President Obama and this administration, we are making real progress in normalizing relations with Cuba and connecting them with the 21st century economy. “Instead of celebrating this progress, hardliners are once again trying to shut down the new openings for greater citizen diplomacy created by the administration,” McGovern added. “This is the wrong thing to do for America, this is the wrong thing to do for American companies, and this is the wrong thing to do for the American people.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “Today I want to express my concern about the dangerous and backward-thinking policies being pushed by conservative hardliners in the both the CJS and T-HUD appropriations bills. “Obviously there are some members here who are nostalgic for the Cold War and policies of the past. Thanks to the leadership of President Obama and this administration, we are making real progress in normalizing relations with Cuba and connecting them with the 21st century economy. We are ending a dumb and counterproductive policy. “In 2011, after President Obama reinstated the rules allowing Cuban Americans to visit their relatives on the island and permitting all Americans to send remittances to Cubans, hardliners used the appropriations process to prevent the policies from being implemented. “Thankfully, Senate Democrats kept the hardliners’ provisions out of the omnibus bill and legislation reversing the modest but hopeful travel and remittance reforms never reached the President's desk. “As a result, hundreds of thousands of trips between the U.S. and Cuba have taken place every year since, reuniting families and increasing the number of Cubans receiving the economic support they need to run their own businesses and lead more independent lives. “Instead of celebrating this progress, hardliners are once again trying to shut down the new openings for greater citizen diplomacy created by the administration. This is the wrong thing to do for America, this is the wrong thing to do for American companies, and this is the wrong thing to do for the American people. “For the first time in six decades, the U.S. government is encouraging citizen diplomacy, greater travel and trade, telecommunications, travel, and other industries, to build relationships and stronger ties with counterparts among the Cuban people and new entrepreneurs. “American businesses are already seeing the potential for economic growth. That’s why Jet Blue and other airlines are expanding charter services and planning commercial routes, why ferry companies are planning to set sail for Havana, why Airbnb and Netflix are hoping to build real businesses in the Cuban market, why Governors in red and blue states alike are trying to position companies in their states to succeed. “This provision is anti-business. Airlines and maritime businesses have already taken steps to initiate travel service to-and-from Cuba based on the Administration’s December 17, 2014 announcements and these provisions would block them. “Even the U.S. Chamber of Commerce strongly opposes such policies. In a letter, the Chamber said they support “the freedom of American citizens to travel to and trade with Cuba” and that “Cuba is the only country in the world where the U.S. government restricts travel by American citizens, who are able to travel freely even to Iran and North Korea, despite the lack of any evidence that this ban benefits Americans or Cubans.” As the Chamber notes, “restrictions on the ability to travel significantly impacts the ability of U.S. firms to export to Cuba” and this could mean U.S. exporters would be unable to effectively compete with foreign businesses. These policies will hold America back in an increasingly global economy. “It is why Americans across the country, and Cuban Americans in the communities where they live, are so deeply committed to a policy that puts the Cold War behind us and puts our country on a path to creating a new and brighter future with Cuba. “Simply put, the Cuba provisions in these two appropriations bills are trying to pull the plug on new efforts by U.S. citizens and U.S. companies to expand their presence in Cuba. As the policy moves forward, they keep trying to pull us back into the Cold War – and a policy that failed for over 50 years. “So let’s be clear, the T-HUD appropriations bill would ground new commercial or charter flights that came into being after March 15, 2015. Jet Blue and Tampa International Airport are just two beneficiaries of the President’s new policy who would be adversely affected. “With new ferries leaving port, as much as $340 million dollars would be pumped into Florida’s economy. These provisions would hold back that economic growth, hurting American businesses in Fort Lauderdale, Tampa, Orlando and Miami. “The CJS bill would shut down U.S. exports to Cuba in ways that will affect telecommunications firms now in negotiations to open up phone and Internet connections with the island. “Do we want Cubans to be better connected to the outside world? I thought the answer to that question was a huge, bipartisan yes. “The ugly truth is that the provisions in these two bills are hiding their real intent to shut down the growing connections between Cuba and U.S. citizens and U.S. companies. The hardliners pushing these policies falsely claim that the provisions only deal with confiscated property and limits on benefits to the Cuban state and military. But the reality is that they want to stop the progress towards normal relations with Cuba and turn the clock backwards. “The real question is: Do we want to extend and expand our commerce and communications with the Cuban people as President Obama is attempting to do? Or does Congress want to shut it all down? The sponsors of the provisions inside the CJS and THUD appropriations bills clearly want to shut it all down. “An appropriations bill is no place to conduct foreign policy, and we all know how this movie ends – with a veto showdown. “Sooner or later all these restrictions are going to either be negotiated out of the bills or into more flexible language, or they will land on President's desk and face a veto. “I urge my colleagues to oppose this rule and the underlying appropriations legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
06.02.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02), second-highest ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee, spoke on the House floor to call for the defeat of policy riders in the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) appropriations bill that put the trucking industry ahead of the health and safety of American travelers. “In just the past four years, we have seen a dramatic 17 percent increase in the number of truck crash deaths and an alarming 28 percent increase in injuries. Instead of advancing safety measures to make our roads safer, Congress is about to roll back significant safety laws and regulations that will result in more deaths and injuries on our roads and highways,” Congressman McGovern said. “In fatal truck and car crashes, 96 percent of the fatalities are the occupants of the passenger car. “Public opinion is clear: Americans do not want bigger trucks or tired truckers on the road. 76 percent of Americans opposed longer and heavier trucks and 80 percent opposed increasing truck driver working and driving hours,” McGovern added. “Making our roads less safe might be good policy for fundraising, but lousy policy for the safety of American people. We must remove these dangerous policy riders and ensure that this T-HUD bill is putting the safety of everyday Americans first.” The full text of Congressman McGovern’s floor speech is below. As Prepared For Delivery: “Today, I want to highlight the big giveaways to the trucking industry in the T-HUD bill. This bill is loaded up with pet projects of the trucking industry that threaten the health and safety of the travelling public. “This bill should be focused on strengthening America’s infrastructure – repairing crumbling bridges, investing in public transportation, and making our roads safer – but instead puts the trucking industry in the driving seat, leaving the average American left behind. “The bill would increase truck weights in Idaho and Kansas, allow twin 33 foot trailers on Interstates, delay full implementation of DOT’s hours of service rule which requires minimum rest periods for truckers, and prohibit DOT from increasing minimum insurance requirements for big trucks and motor coaches. “With all that we know today, it is simply outrageous that we would allow bigger and heavier trucks on our highways. Today’s bill is intended specifically to appropriate funds, not authorize new policy. Yet this is exactly what these policy riders are doing. They don’t belong on this bill. “Furthermore, there was not a single hearing on these trucking riders. These issues are important enough that they should be openly debated as part of a comprehensive surface transportation authorization bill, not tacked on to an appropriations bill. They don’t belong here, but this process has become so corrupted that anything goes. “Making these controversial policy changes before DOT finishes their comprehensive truck size and weight study that was required by MAP-21, would be irresponsible. We should allow DOT the time it needs to get their study right. “Simply put, these trucking industry riders will make our highways less safe at a time when our infrastructure funding is woefully inadequate and our roads and bridges are crumbling. “In just the past four years, we have seen a dramatic 17 percent increase in the number of truck crash deaths and an alarming 28 percent increase in injuries. Instead of advancing safety measures to make our roads safer, Congress is about to roll back significant safety laws and regulations that will result in more deaths and injuries on our roads and highways. In fatal truck and car crashes, 96 percent of the fatalities are the occupants of the passenger car. “Public opinion is clear: Americans do not want bigger trucks or tired truckers on the road. 76 percent of Americans opposed longer and heavier trucks and 80 percent opposed increasing truck driver working and driving hours. Making our roads less safe might be good policy for fundraising, but lousy policy for the safety of American people. “We must remove these dangerous policy riders and ensure that this T-HUD bill is putting the safety of everyday Americans first. “Sooner or later all these restrictions are going to either be negotiated out of the bills or into more flexible language, or they will land on President's desk and face a veto. “I urge my colleagues to oppose this rule and the underlying appropriations legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.” ###
06.01.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that the application deadline for Massachusetts state and local agencies, tribes and certain private nonprofit agencies that may be eligible for federal disaster assistance for damages associated with the January 26-28, 2015 Blizzard has been extended to June 10, 2015. “In 2015, Massachusetts faced one of our harshest winters and this federal aid will provide much-needed relief for our small businesses working to recover,” Congressman McGovern said. “Our small businesses and local non-profits are key to keeping our communities strong and economy growing in Worcester and across the Commonwealth. I am pleased the deadline to apply for this aid has been extended to June 10 and encourage all eligible residents to apply.” To be eligible for assistance, applicants must submit Request for Public Assistance (RPA) forms to the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) by the deadline date. The RPA is an applicant’s official notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) of its intent to apply for disaster assistance. Assistance was authorized through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) under a Major Disaster Declaration for Public Assistance (PA). The disaster assistance has been made available to ten (10) counties: Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes, Essex, Middlesex, Nantucket, Norfolk, Plymouth, Suffolk and Worcester Counties. All counties had eligible costs that exceeded federal financial thresholds. Under the Public Assistance Program, affected local governments, state agencies, tribes, and eligible private non-profit organizations are eligible to apply for reimbursement by the federal government for 75 percent of the approved costs of emergency protective measures, storm-related overtime for first responders, clearing debris from public roads and public property, and repairing, replacing, restoring or reconstructing damaged public facilities and infrastructure. In addition, municipalities and state agencies, tribal nations, and certain private non-profits in nine (9) counties: Worcester, Barnstable, Bristol, Dukes, Essex, Middlesex, Norfolk, Plymouth, and Suffolk Counties are eligible for Snow Assistance because these counties received a record or near record (within 10 percent of the record) snowfall. Eligible applicants in the nine counties will be reimbursed for 75 percent of their costs for a continuous 48 hour period of snow plowing, snow removal and road surface treatment associated with the blizzard of January 26-28. Copies of the Request for Public Assistance form can be obtained from the MEMA website at: www.mass.gov/mema. Completed RPA forms can be scanned and emailed to disaster.recovery@state.ma.us or faxed to (508) 820-1404. FEMA has specific guidelines for determining eligibility of Private Non-Profits (PNPs) which require submission of additional forms and documentation. These required PNP forms are also available on the MEMA website. PNPs are reminded that all required documentation must be submitted to MEMA by the June 10, 2015 deadline. ###
05.28.2015	Today Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) joined community leaders at a groundbreaking for the new Gardner Kilby Hammond bike path. Congressman McGovern secured nearly $3 million in federal funding to create the lighted bike path, which will provide additional pedestrian and bike access to the Boys and Girls Club for the Main South neighborhood. “Today is a truly exciting day. This bike path and the sports field that will follow it are so important to the Main South neighborhood,” Congressman McGovern said. “This project will bring more access to green space and outdoor recreation opportunities for families in this neighborhood and is just another step toward a rejuvenated Main South. I am proud to work with great partners in the City, Clark University, and the Main South Community Development Corporation to help us revitalize this neighborhood. I look forward to coming back in the spring for a ribbon cutting on the bike path and a ground breaking for the field.” The nearly $3 million project secured by McGovern will also include roadway improvements, which will be made to Kilby and Gardner streets, including street light modifications, sidewalk replacement, curb resetting, roadway mill and overlay, and full depth pavement repairs as necessary. Improvements will also include additional crosswalks and shared roadway markings to tie the improvements into the bike path. Joining Congressman McGovern at today’s bike path groundbreaking were Worcester City Manager Edward Augustus, Jr., Worcester City Councilor Sarai Rivera, MassDOT’s District Highway Director Jonathan Gulliver, National Grid Massachusetts President Marcy Reed, Main South CDC Executive Director Steve Teasdale, Clark University President David Angel, and Erwin “Dusty” Miller from the Boys and Girls Club. ###
05.27.2015	Today, Congressman James P. McGovern (MA-02) and Congressman Walter B. Jones (NC-03) sent a letter to Speaker John Boehner urging him to take action on President Obama’s Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) request released on February 11, 2015 to authorize military operations against the Islamic State (ISIL). Earlier this week, Speaker Boehner said in a news conference that he is asking the president to start over and draft another AUMF. President Obama started launching airstrikes against ISIL on August 7, 2014, 293 days ago, surpassing the 60-day window the president has to launch an offensive without congressional authorization. Initially, the Obama administration held that the airstrikes were legal under the AUMF President Bush signed into law on September 18, 2001, right after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, even though ISIL is a new and distinct threat. On September 25, 2014, Speaker Boehner told The New York Times that he wanted to wait until 2015 to bring an AUMF to the House floor for a debate and a vote to avoid bringing it up during a lame duck session. On December 6, 2014, Speaker Boehner said that House Republicans would work with the president to get an AUMF request approved if the president sent one to Congress. On February 11, 2015, President Obama sent his AUMF request to Congress. In over three months, the House has failed to act on the president’s request, or any alternative. “Congress has a constitutional responsibility to authorize war,” Congressman McGovern said. “The wars in Iraq and Syria are intensifying with the United States getting more deeply involved each day. The president has done his job by sending Congress his proposed AUMF. It is now time for Congress to do its job and debate and vote on it.” “For 14 years, the American people have felt the cost and pain of war in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have spent over $1.5 trillion and lost over 6,800 brave men and women. ISIL is a new and distinct threat, and the American people expect Congress to meet its constitutional responsibility to have a debate and a vote on whether yet another war is worth the grave cost,” said Congressman Jones. “I urge Speaker Boehner to do his duty as leader of the House of Representatives and take action on the existing AUMF request so that substantive changes can be made and their merit debated in an open fashion on the House floor. We have wasted enough time. Political expediency should never trump a moral and constitutional duty.” On February 6, 2015 in anticipation of President Obama sending an AUMF request to Congress, Congressman McGovern and Congressman Jones sent a letter to Speaker Boehner urging him to schedule a full debate on the president’s AUMF request. On February 23, 2015, Congressman Jones led a coalition urging Speaker Boehner to follow regular order on President Obama’s AUMF request so that the House could make changes to it and have an open debate and a vote on it. Last September, when the president started conducting airstrikes against ISIS and arming Syrian rebels, Congressman McGovern and Congressman Jones led a letter to Speaker Boehner asking for a full debate on an authorization for the use of military force in the region. Last July, Congressman McGovern and Congressman Jones introduced H. Con. Res. 105 to prohibit the deployment of U.S. armed forces in a sustained combat role in Iraq without congressional authorization. The resolution passed with 370 votes. Last August, Congressman McGovern, Congressman Jones, and Congresswoman Lee formed a bipartisan coalition to urge the House Foreign Relations Committee to draft an authorization regarding Iraq and Syria. They also urged Speaker Boehner to bring up the authorization for a debate and a vote before Congress recessed at the end of September. ###
05.19.2015	At the end of March, I had the privilege of spending some time with the Highland Valley Elder Services’ Meals on Wheels program in Northampton, Massachusetts as part of their “March for Meals Month” to raise awareness about senior hunger. I began my visit in the kitchen at the Walter Salvo Elder House where an average of 550 healthy meals are prepared from scratch every weekday for delivery to homebound seniors and disabled residents of Hampshire County. I had the opportunity to chat with Highland Valley Director Allan Ouimet and Nutrition Program Director Nancy Mathers. Then, I helped volunteer driver Arthur Mongeon pack up the day’s meals in insulated coolers to keep the food hot. This day’s meal was homemade chicken covered in gravy, mashed potatoes, green beans, cranberry sauce, applesauce and milk. The food looked and smelled delicious. Reminded me of what my grandmother used to make. I joined Arthur on his normal “N1” route, making stops at 15 homes in Northampton. At each stop, I had the opportunity to deliver the meal and chat with the residents. It was an eye-opening experience and I thoroughly enjoyed hearing people’s stories. Each meal delivered contains one-third of the daily nutritional recommendations. For many individuals, the meal they receive from Meals on Wheels is the only well-balanced meal they eat all day. The individuals who receive these meals are low-income and often have significant health challenges that make it simply too difficult to prepare a full meal, never mind going out to the grocery store to shop. One of the most interesting things I learned from my visit is that Meals on Wheels is so much more than just a meals program. People who are homebound – many who live alone – look forward to the brief, daily visits from volunteers. These visits lift their spirits and allow them to socialize. And volunteers can check in and see how they’re doing. Because of programs like Meals on Wheels seniors can stay in their own homes where they’re most comfortable and live independently longer. When we talk about food insecurity in this country, nearly everyone talks about children. And we’re right to want to do everything we can to end childhood hunger. But lost in that narrative is the reality that among the food insecure, the rising population is seniors. One in twelve seniors in our country is faced with the reality of hunger. That’s 5.3 million seniors who don’t have enough eat. Many are living on fixed incomes that often force them to choose between prescriptions and food – or paying their medical bills or heating their homes. Seniors and the disabled represent about 20 percent of those who receive Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program -- or SNAP -- benefits. The average SNAP benefit for households with seniors is a meager $134 per month. Unfortunately, we also know that eligible elderly households are much less likely to participate in SNAP than other eligible households. Many seniors may not realize that they qualify for assistance, or they may simply be reluctant to ask for help. Seniors have unique nutritional needs. Hunger is especially dangerous for seniors and can exacerbate underlying medical conditions. Food insecure seniors are at increased risk for conditions like depression, heart attack, diabetes and high blood pressure. May is Older Americans Month and national organizations like Feeding America, the nationwide network of food banks, are focused on raising awareness about senior hunger through their hashtag Solve Senior Hunger social media campaign. In July, we’ll mark the 50th anniversary of the Older Americans Act , which provides a range of critical services – including Meals on Wheels – that enable about 11 million older adults to stay independent as long as possible. To honor that significant anniversary, I hope that Congress will pass a strong reauthorization of OAA programs, which have been flat-funded over the past decade and without a long-term authorization since 2011. Demand for OAA programs and services continues to rapidly increase as our population ages, and to think that more and more seniors will experience hunger is heartbreaking. I’m proud to represent the wonderful people and the work they do at Highland Valley Elder Services throughout Western Massachusetts. Every day they are making the lives of seniors a little better and a little brighter. We in Congress should do our part to ensure that our nation’s seniors don’t go hungry. We should pass a strong reauthorization of the Older Americans Act that adequately fund programs like Meals on Wheels. And we should reject harmful cuts to SNAP that will disproportionately harm the most vulnerable among us – children, seniors and the disabled. We should urge the White House to hold a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition to come up with a comprehensive plan to end hunger once and for all in this country. We can and should do more to End Hunger Now. ###
05.18.2015	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) today announced that low-interest economic injury disaster loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) will be available to Massachusetts small businesses, small agricultural cooperatives, small aquaculture businesses and private non-profit organizations affected by the record-breaking snowfall and extreme cold temperatures between Jan. 26, 2015 and Feb. 22, 2015. SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet made the loans available following a disaster declaration request from Massachusetts Gov. Charles D. Baker on May 12. The declaration covers Worcester, Barnstable, Bristol, Essex, and Suffolk, and the adjacent counties of Middlesex, Norfolk, and Plymouth. “In Massachusetts, we faced one our harshest winters this year and many small businesses were impacted. These loans will provide much-needed relief to Massachusetts small business owners in Worcester and across the Commonwealth,” Congressman McGovern said. “Thanks to the leadership of SBA Administrator Maria Contreras-Sweet and this administration, our businesses will get the help they need to recover and continue to be the engines of economic growth our communities need.” Eligible entities may qualify for loans up to $2 million. The SBA offers Economic Injury Disaster Loans (EIDLs) to help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. The rates on these loans are 4.00 percent for small businesses and 2.625 percent for non-profit organizations with terms up to 30 years. The SBA determines eligibility for the loans based on the size and type of business and its financial resources. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Applications and program information are available by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing), or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can also be downloaded from the SBA’s website at www.sba.gov/disaster. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. For more info about SBA’s Disaster Loan Program, visit our website at www.sba.gov/disaster. The deadline to return economic injury applications is February 15, 2016. ###
05.14.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced that Abraham White has joined his office as Press Secretary. White will oversee McGovern’s communications in the district and nationally. White joins McGovern’s office after serving as Deputy Press Secretary for former-Senator Tom Harkin (IA) at the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee. Prior to joining Harkin’s office, White served with the communications team at the Center for American Progress, managing press for Generation Progress, their youth advocacy team. “I’m thrilled Abraham is joining our team. He is a seasoned communicator who comes to our office with strong experience working for leading members of Congress and national advocacy organizations. He did amazing work for my friend, Senator Tom Harkin, and I’m proud to welcome him to my staff,” McGovern said. “I’m excited to join the great team Congressman McGovern has assembled to fight every day for the people of Massachusetts,” added White. White can be reached at abraham.white@mail.house.gov or 202-225-6101, and on Twitter @abwhite7. ###
05.13.2015	MomsRising, a national grassroots organization of moms, delivered a petition signed by more than 25,000 moms from all across the country urging this Congress not to cut SNAP in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget. Every member of this House received the petition signed by moms in their district. Today, that petition has grown to nearly 50 thousand signatures and it keeps growing. This is just the latest petition from MomsRising urging Congress to prioritize children in the budget and protect SNAP from cuts and other structural changes. I am proud to stand with them in this call. share: f t May 13, 2015 M. Speaker, a few weeks ago, MomsRising, a national grassroots organization of moms, delivered a petition signed by more than 25 thousand moms from all across the country urging this Congress not to cut SNAP in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget. Every member of this House received the petition signed by moms in their district. Today, that petition has grown to nearly 50 thousand signatures. And it keeps growing. This is just the latest petition from MomsRising urging Congress to prioritize children in the budget and protect SNAP from cuts and other structural changes. I want to share one of the stories from a mom – Monique from Ohio writes: "I was raised to always work and so was my husband. We have tried to instill this in our daughter. Even going so far as to work opposite shifts and have family babysit if there was an overlap. When my husband was laid off 2 years ago and then couldn’t find work, I tried my best to keep us floating on just my income. Walking to work because I didn't have the bus fare. Often having $20 or less after paying the bills to feed my family for a week. I resisted getting on welfare, having been raised to never take a handout. My pastor was the one who pointed out that I had already paid for that right through my taxes over several decades. Since signing up for SNAP benefits, I can feed my family filling, nutritious meals again. Of course, my husband is still looking for work (that will pick up the slack) and, once he finds it, we will happily forgo the benefits again. Until then all I can say is thank God (and the government) for having a safety net in place! END QUOTE Unfortunately, Monique’s story is not unique. But it shows that without SNAP, her family would have been much worse off during tough times. One in five children in the United States experiences hunger. Without the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, that number would sadly be much higher. Already, nearly half of all SNAP participants are children under the age of 18. Nearly, half, M. Speaker. And this is despite the fact that SNAP households with children have high work rates. Families with children who are WORKING continue to earn so little that they still qualify for SNAP and they still struggle to put food on the table. M. Speaker, we know that hunger can lead to a myriad of negative outcomes for children. From health problems and compromised immune systems to poor nutrition to an inability to concentrate and succeed in school, childhood hunger means kids suffer. Despite these sobering statistics, the Republican budget resolutions passed by the House and Senate made draconian cuts to SNAP and other critical programs to help poor children and their families. And the budget conference report only makes these cuts worse. It builds upon the $125 billion cut to SNAP in the House budget. To achieve a cut of that magnitude by block granting the program and capping its allotment means that states would be forced to cut benefits or cut eligible individuals and families off the program. There are simply no good choices. In short it would make hunger worse. Much worse. M. Speaker, SNAP is one of the only remaining basic protections for the very poor. For many of the poorest Americans, SNAP is the only form of income assistance they receive. SNAP provides food benefits to low-income Americans at a very basic level. SNAP benefits are already too low; they average less than $1.40 per person per meal. We should not be balancing the federal budget on the backs of poor and working families. We should not be making childhood hunger worse in America. I commend MomsRising for their leadership and for taking action to protect SNAP and ensure that all children have access to healthy, nutritious foods. Later today, MomsRising will start a Twitterstorm under the hashtag Mission Possible to highlight how building a strong economy for women, families, and the nation is Mission Possible with policies to protect SNAP, promote healthy nutrition, guarantee paid sick days, require equal pay for equal work and make childcare more affordable. These are economic security priorities that boost our families and our economy. As the old adage goes “mother knows best.” We should listen to our moms, especially around Mother’s Day. We should be strengthening families’ economic security. And, we should be working to End Hunger Now, not making it worse.
04.17.2015	Worcester, Massachusetts April 18, 2015 My dear friends – I feel so very honored and very humble to be able to join all of you today to remember and commemorate the 100th Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide. It is particularly special that Archbishop Khajag Barsamian has come to participate in today’s activities and remembrances here in Worcester, one of the oldest Armenian communities in the United States, and often referred to as the “first community.” His presence lends us grace, and we are thankful he is here. Worcester has been blessed with a vibrant Armenian community for much longer than a century. I have learned so much about that history from the Reverend Aved Terzian of the Armenian Church of Our Savior, from so many of you, and especially from my friend and mentor, George Aghjayan, who has written so beautifully about the histories of this community, both here in Worcester and about its roots in Armenia and Turkey. I cannot imagine Worcester without the Armenian-American community and its contributions. On this special occasion, I would like read to you a letter I sent on Wednesday to President Obama. It grew out of a simple question I had asked George to look into for me – How many survivors of the Armenian Genocide remain in Worcester? And that’s how I learned the story of Rose Der Davidian, who is now 105 years old, and when she married, became Rose Der Sahagian, or as George writes, “Sweet Rose, the last survivor of the first community.” In her honor, this is the letter I sent to the President:
04.10.2015	I have long supported removing Cuba from the State Sponsors of Terrorism List. I welcome President Obama’s decision to remove Cuba from this list and strongly support him in his efforts to normalize relations. share: f t I have long supported removing Cuba from the State Sponsors of Terrorism List. I believe that the value and integrity of the list is strengthened by Cuba’s removal. Not only does this action help facilitate the establishment of fully-functioning embassies in both countries, but it will also strengthen the dialogue between our law enforcement and justice officials on cases regarding criminal fugitives. Additionally, it will help facilitate economic development by allowing U.S. business and banking sectors to engage in private sector enterprises in Cuba. I welcome President Obama’s decision to remove Cuba from this list and strongly support him in his efforts to normalize relations. ###
04.02.2015	Today, we witnessed what months of determined diplomacy can accomplish – the announcement of a framework for drafting a final agreement on stopping the progress by the Government of Iran to develop nuclear weapons. share: f t Today, we witnessed what months of determined diplomacy can accomplish – the announcement of a framework for drafting a final agreement on stopping the progress by the Government of Iran to develop nuclear weapons. As outlined by the framework, the final agreement would not only be a “good deal” – it has the potential of being an historic one. A strong and verifiable final agreement will also avert the U.S. and other nations from engaging in yet another war in the Middle East, which I believe is an unthinkable alternative. At the same time, this framework and the final agreement would strengthen all efforts to contain nuclear weapons globally. I congratulate Secretary of State Kerry, the negotiators from Iran and our P5 + 1 partners for their steadfastness and courage. In the coming weeks, I will continue to closely monitor the drafting of the final agreement. As President Obama stated, the details of a final agreement matter and must match the sweeping framework announced today.
03.24.2015	We shouldn’t balance the budget on the backs of poor and working families. They didn’t cause the financial crisis and they shouldn’t be the ones forced to get us out of this mess. share: f t March 24, 2015 I thank the gentlelady for the time. M. Speaker, the last 8 years have been very difficult. We are recovering from the single greatest economic crisis since the Great Depression. This recovery hasn’t been easy and it’s forced us to make difficult decisions. Working on our budget priorities and wrestling with spending cuts have been difficult to say the least. But our economy is turning around, thanks in large part to an increase in hiring and the success of the Affordable Care Act. Yet we still must wrestle with the nation’s budget. Why is it that every time House Republicans try to put our fiscal house in order, they ask those among us who can least afford it to make the most sacrifices? M. Speaker, we shouldn’t balance the budget on the backs of poor and working families. They didn’t cause the financial crisis and they shouldn’t be the ones forced to get us out of this mess. There’s a lot to dislike in the Republican budget. From repealing the Affordable Care Act to ending Medicare as we know it to slashing Pell grants. Quite frankly, it’s awful. But I want to focus on what the Republican budget does to SNAP, the nation’s premier anti-hunger program. Once again, the Republican budget would turn SNAP into a block grant, resulting in sharp cuts of $125 billion. On top of that, the Republican budget requires another cut of at least $1 billion – maybe more – from SNAP. M. Speaker, SNAP is one of the only remaining basic protections for the poor. For many of the poorest Americans, SNAP is the only form of income assistance they receive. The numbers don’t lie, but the stories are far more powerful. Just listen to people who rely on SNAP to make ends meet: Thousands of people sent messages to Congress written on paper plates, pleading with us not to cut SNAP. One woman wrote: “SNAP means that as a single mother, I was able to finish college, feed my family, and find a career.” For the life of me I can’t figure out why House Republicans are hell-bent on arbitrarily cutting a program that feeds hungry kids, seniors and working families. These SNAP cuts are deep and hurtful. We’ve already seen how the Farm Bill cuts of $8.6 billion are wreaking havoc among the hungry – imagine what a cut of $125 billion or more would do. Republicans claim that SNAP spending is out of control, yet the Congressional Budget Office shows that SNAP spending is going down as the economy recovers and people go back to work. Last night in the Rules Committee I offered an amendment to strike these SNAP cuts from the Republican budget. The Republicans blocked my amendment while at the same time increasing spending for the Pentagon by over $90 billion without paying for it. M. Speaker, budgets are moral documents and what the Republicans are doing is immoral. Penalizing working families – and yes, the majority of people on SNAP who can work do work – by taking away food in the guise of fiscal prudence is just wrong. Cutting SNAP while increasing unchecked spending for the Pentagon is hypocritical. I yield back the balance of my time.
03.09.2015	I congratulate the Colombian government and the FARC negotiating teams for reaching this historic agreement to begin the removal of anti-personnel landmines throughout Colombia. After Afghanistan, Colombia is the most mine-affected country in conflict in the world, and it will take many years to fully remove all landmines from Colombia. This concrete agreement also contributes to even greater confidence that the negotiations are serious, are moving forward and that a final peace accord will be achieved. share: f t Representative James P. McGovern (MA), a leading advocate in the U.S. House of Representatives in support of the International Treaty to Ban Landmines, issued the following statement on the Colombian Humanitarian De-Mining Agreement: "I congratulate the Colombian government and the FARC negotiating teams for reaching this historic agreement to begin the removal of anti-personnel landmines throughout Colombia. After Afghanistan, Colombia is the most mine-affected country in conflict in the world, and it will take many years to fully remove all landmines from Colombia. This concrete agreement also contributes to even greater confidence that the negotiations are serious, are moving forward and that a final peace accord will be achieved. I hope the de-mining agreement is but the first of others to humanize and de-escalate the conflict and provide relief to the long-suffering Colombian people, especially those who live and work in rural communities. I urge the Colombian Army, the FARC, Norwegian People's Aid, and other international organizations charged with carrying out the de-mining process to work together and act expeditiously to bring immediate relief to those communities most affected by landmines and to put an end, once and for all time, to the use of this terrible and indiscriminate weapon. I further call upon the ELN to join this initiative and stop its own use of anti-personnel landmines which has caused and continues to cause so much harm and anguish to the rural civilian population.” Related Press FARC agrees to help landmine removal in Colombia Colombia, FARC rebels agree to remove landmines
03.04.2015	Later this morning, I will join my colleague, Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins of Kansas, at DC Central Kitchen to officially re-launch the House Hunger Caucus. I couldn’t be happier that we are continuing this important bipartisan Caucus in the 114th Congress. I’m thrilled to have her partnership in this Caucus and I look forward to working with her. I encourage my House colleagues to join the House Hunger Caucus. As Members, we don’t have to agree on everything to agree on something. Ending hunger should be something that we can all agree on. share: f t March 4, 2015 M. Speaker, later this morning, I will join my colleague, Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins of Kansas, at DC Central Kitchen to officially re-launch the House Hunger Caucus. I couldn’t be happier that we are continuing this important bipartisan Caucus in the 114th Congress. I’m thrilled to have her partnership in this Caucus and I look forward to working with her. M. Speaker, several years ago, my good friend and former colleague, Republican Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson, and I founded the House Hunger Caucus as a forum for Members to discuss, advance, engage and work on issues related to domestic and international hunger and food insecurity. Over the years, the Hunger Caucus has hosted a number of briefings on topics ranging from introductions to the major domestic and international hunger programs to food deserts in rural and urban America to global agriculture and farmer-to-farmer initiatives to international school feeding and child nutrition programs, just to name a few. And the Caucus doesn’t just look at existing programs. It also gets involved in emergency responses as they are unfolding. In 2011, during one of the worst droughts in recent memory, the Hunger Caucus held timely briefings on the U.S. response to the famine in the Horn of Africa. Members and staff were able to hear directly from those on the ground providing assistance to deal with this unprecedented crisis. One of the most important objectives of the Hunger Caucus is to foster better communication among anti-hunger advocates by bringing together stakeholders from federal agencies, state and local governments, non-profits, faith-based organizations, academia and business to discuss long-term strategies for ending hunger. The Caucus also serves as a vehicle for anti-hunger organizations to communicate directly to Congress about hunger and food insecurity issues. One of my top priorities for the Hunger Caucus this year is to make sure that we hear directly from those who have experienced hunger and poverty firsthand. We need to make sure their voices are heard in the discussions here in Washington. One of the greatest assets of the House Hunger Caucus is that it is bipartisan. Republican or Democrat, it is a way for Members to come together to work to end hunger. M. Speaker, hunger touches every one of us here in this House. There is not a congressional district that is hunger free. According to the USDA, more than 17.5 million American households were food insecure in 2013, meaning that their access to adequate food was limited by a lack of money or other resources. 5.6 percent of households were considered to have very low food security. In other words, those households were hungry. Hunger disproportionately affects the most vulnerable among us – children, seniors and the disabled. Last year, 16 million children, or 1 in 5, experienced hunger. And, increasingly veterans and military families are experiencing hunger. On the international side, about 805 million people in the world, or one in nine, suffer from hunger, according to the most recent U.N. reports. This is a decrease of 100 million over the past decade and 209 million since the early 1990s. The U.S. can be proud of its leadership in reducing global hunger and addressing the root causes of food insecurity. Through partnerships with other nations, international organizations, and our own farmers, NGOs and private sector communities, we are advancing agricultural development, increasing child nutrition, reducing malnutrition among infants and children, empowering small farmers around the globe, especially women, and providing nutritious meals in school settings. While the journey is long, we now have a proven and coordinated set of programs that effectively address global hunger. M. Speaker, as we re-establish the Hunger Caucus, I can’t think of a better location to do it at than DC Central Kitchen, a unique anti-hunger organization that prepares five thousand meals a day for more than 80 local non-profit partners helping those going through tough times. One of DC Central Kitchen’s greatest strengths is its Culinary Jobs Training program, where men and women who have faced the most difficult of situations - homelessness, addiction or incarceration - participate in a rigorous job training program to prepare for culinary careers. As part of our kick-off this week, the Hunger Caucus will host a briefing for House staff entitled “Domestic Hunger 101” tomorrow at 1:00 PM. The briefing will be given by CRS experts and is intended to present a broad overview of the major domestic federal anti-hunger programs. I look forward to continuing the important work of the House Hunger Caucus with Congresswoman Jenkins. I encourage my House colleagues to join the House Hunger Caucus. As Members, we don’t have to agree on everything to agree on something. Ending hunger should be something that we can all agree on.
03.04.2015	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern released a bipartisan letter signed by 67 Members of Congress to King Salman, the new King of Saudi Arabia, encouraging him to advocate for human rights and democratic reforms in his country. share: f t Today, Congressman Jim McGovern released a bipartisan letter signed by 67 Members of Congress to King Salman, the new King of Saudi Arabia, encouraging him to advocate for human rights and democratic reforms in his country. In a region that faces mounting unrest as the public demands more responsive governments, Saudi Arabia has an historic opportunity to lead by example. By ending its ban on women drivers, lifting restrictions on public gatherings and social media, reforming anti-terror laws that make criminals out of people who peacefully express criticism, ending torture, and allowing religious minorities to exercise their faiths, Saudi Arabia can set high expectations in the region for security, opportunity and the just treatment of peoples. The letter, coordinated by Representatives McGovern (D-MA) and Peter Roskam (R-IL), also urges the King to cancel unjust prison sentences imposed on blogger Raif Badawi and his lawyer, Waleed Abu al-Khair, and to free them and other prisoners of conscience immediately and unconditionally. “Taken together, these actions will clearly demonstrate to an expectant international audience that King Salman is committed to protecting human rights and advancing democratic reforms,” said McGovern. You can read the full letter here.
02.26.2015	Last Thursday I launched #FillUpYourPlate on my website at mcgovern.house.gov. It’s a place where people can tell me what SNAP, or food stamps, means to them or how hunger has impacted their lives. Responses are posted on my website to create a wall of virtual paper plates. I encourage people to visit my website at mcgovern.house.gov to share what SNAP means to them. share: f t February 26, 2015 M. Speaker, in 2013, I participated in my first “Monte’s March” to raise money for The Food Bank of Western Massachusetts. Along with my friend, local radio host Monte Bel Monte – and several others - we walked 26 miles in one day through western Massachusetts. Along the way we stopped at the Amherst Survival Center, where low-income people can go to receive food, clothing, medical advice and a number of other services to help them through hard times. The executive director handed me a stack of paper plates. On the plates, people who used the Amherst Survival Center had written how hunger had impacted their lives. Inspired by this simple yet powerful message, last Thursday I launched #FillUpYourPlate on my website at mcgovern.house.gov. It’s a place where people can tell me what SNAP, or food stamps, means to them or how hunger has impacted their lives. Responses are posted on my website to create a wall of virtual paper plates. M. Speaker, yesterday the House Agriculture Committee – where I am proud to serve – held the first hearing in its “top-to-bottom” review of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. SNAP is the nation’s pre-eminent anti-hunger program that provides critical food assistance to more than 46 million Americans. Last year, 16 million children – or 1 in 5 American children – relied on SNAP. Unfortunately, every indication is that Republicans will once again try to cut this critical safety-net program. M. Speaker, I fully support rigorous oversight of federal programs. But we shouldn’t single SNAP out for aggressive or unnecessary scrutiny. It already has one of the lowest error rates among all federal programs. And, CBO projections show that it SNAP caseloads and spending are expected to fall as our economy continues to improve. One of the reasons I started the #FillUpYourPlate campaign was to make sure that the voices of those who use SNAP - who are struggling to make ends meet – are heard in the discussion here in Washington. All too often, the real stories and struggles of those who are struggling in get drowned out by false rhetoric and partisan talking points. M. Speaker, so far I’ve received more than 100 virtual paper plates. I want to read just a few of the messages. From Michelle: "SNAP means that many junior ranking members’ families will not go hungry while their military spouses are away defending this nation." From Patricia: "I am a single mother of two. I currently work at Dunkin Donuts. If my SNAP benefits got cut I would not be able to pay my rent because I would be spending all of my paychecks on food for my children. I lived in a homeless shelter for a year before coming to my apartment in October of 2014. If my SNAP benefits are cut I'll be back in a shelter. I do not plan on being on SNAP benefits forever. I would like to finish my degree and get a job that will support my household without any assistance but for now I need the help." From Cherise: "It means my children won’t go to bed hungry and can function better in school because they have food in their bellies. It also lets me buy more healthy and fresh foods I wouldn't have access to if I had to pay out of pocket. I am grateful for this program. There is no joy in watching children struggle over something so easily prevented." From Sabine: "SNAP to my family means I don't have to choose between paying the lights or making sure I feed my son breakfast in the morning. Having my SNAP benefits takes a huge load off my $243 take home checks from work a week. With SNAP my son is guaranteed food in his tummy." From David: "It meant my family was still able to eat while I was between jobs. My wife had to quit her job to stay at home and take care of our special-needs daughter. A month after the birth of our second daughter I lost my job, and went almost a year before finding a job that paid enough to provide for our family. At one time I was holding four part-time jobs at the same time. I never thought I would have to rely on government assistance, but now don't know how we would have gotten by without it." M. Speaker, I am committed to make sure the voices of those who rely on SNAP are heard in the debates here in Washington and I am committed to End Hunger Now. I encourage people to visit my website at mcgovern.house.gov to share what SNAP means to them.
02.26.2015	After giving this issue a great deal of thought, I have decided not to attend the Prime Minister’s speech. share: f t After giving this issue a great deal of thought, I have decided not to attend the Prime Minister’s speech. I have been and will continue to be a strong supporter of Israel, but the timing and circumstances of this speech are deeply troubling. For Speaker Boehner to use our relationship with Israel to score partisan political points is wrong. And for him to purposefully exclude the Obama Administration from the invitation is a serious breach of protocol and of common sense. The House chamber should not be used as a platform for a foreign leader to run his re-election campaign. I hope Speaker Boehner will heed the calls from those of us in the House who have urged him to at least delay the Prime Minister’s speech until after the Israeli election and after the Iran nuclear negotiations deadline. ###
02.11.2015	I’m pleased that we are finally discussing a new authorization for military force in the Middle East, something that should have happened a long time ago. Congress has been negligent, ignoring its constitutional duties on matters of war and peace. I hope that when a resolution comes to the floor, the House will be given the opportunity for a full and fair debate. share: f t I’m pleased that we are finally discussing a new authorization for military force in the Middle East, something that should have happened a long time ago. Congress has been negligent, ignoring its constitutional duties on matters of war and peace. I hope that when a resolution comes to the floor, the House will be given the opportunity for a full and fair debate. Further, I am troubled by the Administration’s request, which I believe is far too open-ended and does little to constrain this or the next Administration from engaging in sustained combat. We should be doing much more to promote a legitimate and lasting political solution in the region. And we should be wary of believing that any Congressional resolution will suddenly cause 50 million people in the Middle East to decide to live peaceably together.
02.10.2015	I rise today to highlight two important new reports released today by the Food Research and Action Center, or FRAC, on the school breakfast program. FRAC’s reports – the School Breakfast Scorecard; and School Breakfast – Making it Work in Large District show that we’ve made progress in expanding access to school breakfast, but that work remains to be done. share: f t February 10, 2015 M. Speaker, I rise today to highlight two important new reports released today by the Food Research and Action Center, or FRAC, on the school breakfast program. FRAC’s reports – the School Breakfast Scorecard; and School Breakfast – Making it Work in Large District show that we’ve made progress in expanding access to school breakfast, but that work remains to be done. During the 2013-2014 school year, 11.2 million students received a healthy school breakfast on the average school day. That’s an average of 320,000 more students per day who received school breakfast than the year before. The reports show that more students than ever are participating in the school breakfast program and receiving a healthy breakfast on school days. We’ve made real progress in making sure that students who are eligible receive breakfast. The School Breakfast Program, along with National School Lunch Program, are critically important anti-hunger programs that ensure that our most vulnerable children don’t go hungry. M. Speaker, there’s truth to the old adage that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Research shows that students who eat a healthy breakfast have improved test schools, miss fewer days of school and make fewer trips to the nurse’s office. But for many students, they begin their school day on an empty stomach with the last meal they ate having been yesterday’s school lunch. Monday mornings are especially difficult for students from families struggling to put food on their tables at home. They may have gone the entire weekend without eating a full or balanced meal. Recent data from the Census Bureau show that one in five children received SNAP, or food stamp, benefits last year. Too many of our children don’t know where their next meal will come from, making the meals they can count on in school all the more important. Our economy is still recovering from the Great Recession and economic gains are uneven, especially among low-income families. Too many families are still operating with tight family budgets and struggling to pay the bills and put enough nutritious food on the table. I’m sure all of us can relate to the hectic morning rush to get kids and parents out the door on time in the mornings, especially when both parents are working to make ends meet. M. Speaker, one of the best attributes of the school breakfast program is the flexibility that schools have to design programs that work for their own students and their own schools. The FRAC reports highlight a number of ways that school districts have successfully made the school breakfast program work for them. Some schools have breakfast in the classroom where students can eat a healthy breakfast at their desks while getting ready for the day. School districts with a high proportion of low income students can qualify for a community eligibility provision where all students in the school can receive free breakfast and lunch. Still other schools serve traditional breakfasts in the cafeteria at the start of the day. Regardless of the model used, the school breakfast program ensures that students, especially low-income students, are ready to learn and aren’t distracted by hunger. The Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 provided many important updates to the school breakfast program, including improving nutrition standards. Last year was the first school year that the new nutrition standards were in place. Despite some of the buzz about students not liking the new meals, more students are participating in the school breakfast program than ever before. Not only are more students eating breakfast, but they are eating a healthier breakfast. M. Speaker, investing in our children by making sure they don’t go hungry and providing them with a world class education is the best down payment we can make for our future economic success. As this Congress begins the process of reauthorizing the school nutrition programs, we must continue to build upon the gains in participation and improvements in nutrition standards that we have make in the school breakfast program. It would be foolish to roll back nutrition standards just because special interests or some students don’t like them. Today’s FRAC reports show that we are doing a better job making sure that kids start their day with a healthy breakfast but that there’s more work to be done. For every 100 kids who receive free school lunch, only 53 receive school breakfast. We must do more to expand the school breakfast program and increase participation so that all students who qualify for free and reduced priced lunches have the opportunity to receive a healthy school breakfast. M. Speaker, we can and should do more to #End Hunger Now. And expanding and strengthening the School Breakfast Program is an important step.
02.03.2015	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today introduced in the House of Representatives the “Prescribe a Book Act” (HR 523). The bill seeks to build upon the successful “Reach Out and Read” (ROR) program by codifying an early literacy competitive grant program. This approach to promoting early language and literacy development has enlisted pediatricians and other health care providers to encourage parents to read aloud to their children, sending them home from each doctor visit with a “prescription” to read together. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today introduced in the House of Representatives the “Prescribe a Book Act” (HR 523). The bill seeks to build upon the successful “Reach Out and Read” (ROR) program by codifying an early literacy competitive grant program. This approach to promoting early language and literacy development has enlisted pediatricians and other health care providers to encourage parents to read aloud to their children, sending them home from each doctor visit with a “prescription” to read together. Reach Out and Read operates through a network of 20,000 medical providers at 5,000 hospitals, health centers, and clinics. They serve 4 million children across all 50 states. The bill introduced today would authorize a five-year federal grant program based upon the Reach Out and Read model. Rep. McGovern has long been a strong supporter of funding for Reach Out and Read. “Over the last several years we have seen just how powerful the Reach Out and Read program can be,” Rep. McGovern said. “The Prescribe a Book Act represents an attempt to strengthen and enhance the gains we have made. Research clearly demonstrates that early exposure to reading goes a long way toward preparing children for school. And we know that families value and trust their pediatricians.” Katherine Clark (MA-05), a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, has signed onto the bill as an original cosponsor. ###
02.03.2015	No parent should find themselves in the difficult situation of having to drop their child off at a program that is unsafe or of poor quality just so they can get to their job. Parents should not have to choose between safe child care and keeping their job to pay the bills. I urge the Republican leadership to support the President’s initiatives to expand and improve access to high-quality affordable child care programs. It’s the right thing to do for our children. It’s the right thing to do for all American families. And it’s especially the right thing to do for our low-income families who have not shared in recent economic improvements and who face tough choices every day. share: f t February 3, 2015 M. Speaker, too many people in our country – the richest country in the history of the world – are hungry. And, hunger has many faces. Children. Seniors. Veterans. The Disabled. One group that experiences hunger that deserves more attention is working families. In his State of the Union address, I was pleased to see the President identify specific ways to support working families: Tripling the child care tax credit; increasing the number of slots available and investing in high-quality, affordable child care programs. These are investments that are important to all families, but especially working and poor families. We know that the early years of a child’s life are critical to shaping healthy cognitive, social and emotional development. Ensuring that all of our young children have the opportunity to thrive in a safe, nurturing environment is one of the best economic investments that we can make. It’s the right thing to do and it pays huge dividends later on. Families – at all income levels – know how expensive child care is today. In 2013, the cost of full-time care for an infant at a child care center was about $10,000 per year – more than the cost of in-state college tuition in many states. And many of the best child care programs cost much more than that. But for poor families, the cost of quality child care can be an untenable burden. For these families, it may mean being forced to choose between paying rent, getting medicine or buying food. And no parent should find themselves in the difficult situation of having to drop their child off at a program that is unsafe or of poor quality just so they can get to their job. Parents shouldn’t have to choose between safe child care and keeping their job to pay the bills. For poor families in particular, it is a daily struggle to balance everything and still make ends meet. M. Speaker, last week the Census Bureau released figures that showed that one in five children in this country received food stamps last year. Let me repeat that. One in five children in this country relied on SNAP. That’s 16 million children who relied on SNAP to keep them from going hungry last year – more than at the start of the Great Recession. We know that our economy is improving – slowly – but that gains aren’t shared evenly among all Americans. Too many poor and working families are still struggling to make ends meet. And, we know that, despite some of the false rhetoric, the majority of SNAP participants who are expected to work do, in fact, work. Families with children have even higher rates of employment than other households on SNAP. More than 60 percent of families with children receiving SNAP have someone in the household working. M. Speaker, these families have a working adult but still make so little that they qualify for SNAP. Without SNAP, these families would not be able to put enough nutritious food on the table to for their children or for themselves. Being poor is hard. And it’s expensive. We should be doing everything we can to support working families. Expanding and investing in child care is an important step toward achieving that goal. I urge the Republican leadership to support the President’s initiatives to expand and improve access to high-quality affordable child care programs. It’s the right thing to do for our children. It’s the right thing to do for all American families. And it’s especially the right thing to do for our low-income families who have not shared in recent economic improvements and who face tough choices every day. Families should not be forced to choose between good, safe child care and putting food on the table. That is shameful. I urge my colleagues to make a renewed commitment to #End Hunger Now. We have the resources. We just need the political will. We can and should do better.
02.03.2015	I rise in strong opposition to this closed rule and to the underlying bill. Here we are again, back on the House floor with yet another pointless attempt by the Republican Majority to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Today’s exercise in time-wasting gamesmanship marks the 56th time that we have been down this well-traveled road. If Republicans get their way, real people would see real benefits taken away. share: f t I thank the Gentleman from Texas for the customary 30 minutes and I yield myself such time as I may consume. And I rise in strong opposition to this closed rule and to the underlying bill. Well, M. Speaker, here we are again, back on the House floor with yet another pointless attempt by the Republican Majority to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Today’s exercise in time-wasting gamesmanship marks the 56th time that we have been down this well-traveled road. 56. That’s 2 score and 16. It’s 4 and ½ dozen. But no matter how you add it up, it has to be some sort of World Record in political futility. So it’s tempting to say that nothing has changed. But that’s not exactly true. Because in fact a great deal HAS changed since my Republican Colleagues first tried to repeal the ACA. Here are some of the things that have changed: The number of uninsured Americans has dropped by about 10 million people. 3 million young adults have been able to gain coverage through a parent’s plan. Insurance companies can no longer discriminate on the basis of a so-called pre-existing condition, like, say, being a woman. Lifetime limits and caps on coverage have been eliminated. Seniors have saved more than $11 Billion in prescription drugs – an average of $1400 per Medicare beneficiary. Co-pays and deductibles for preventive services for Medicare patients have been eliminated, and the solvency Medicare Trust Fund has been extended by 13 years. And the growth in health care spending in this country is the slowest on record while health care price inflation is at its lowest rate in 50 years. All that has happened thanks to the Affordable Care Act. And if the Republicans get their way, much of it will disappear in instant. If the Republicans get their way, millions of Americans would lose their health care coverage. Millions more would lose the subsidies they’ve received to purchase plans. Millions of children would lose CHIP coverage. Millions of seniors would lose benefits. And the deficit would increase. So let’s be crystal clear, M. Speaker – this is no longer a theoretical political exercise. This is very, very real. If this bill were ever to become law, then real people would see real benefits taken away. That is why President Obama has said very plainly that he would veto this bill if it ever reached his desk. And there’s something else new about this 56th version of Republicans banging their heads against a brick wall. For the first time, according to Politico, QUOTE: “House Republicans want to postpone the full repeal of Obamacare for six months to allow time to come up with a replacement plan.” END QUOTE. I have to say, M. Speaker, when I read that I actually laughed out loud. The health care crisis in this country has been happening For YEARS and YEARS. Decades. How many studies have been done? How many reports issued? How many hearings and debates and news stories? But after all that, my Republican friends still need another six months to come up with a replacement plan? Here’s an idea – let’s vote down this rule with the understanding that in 6 months – actually, I’ll give you 7, until after Labor Day – that in 7 months you’ll be back here with your magic replacement plan, which I assume will be flown in on a unicorn sliding down a rainbow. I’ll tell you why, M. Speaker – because the Republicans have absolutely no intention of actually doing the hard work of health care reform. This is just a gimmick. It’s a chance for their new freshman to cast their symbolic vote against Obamacare so they can put out their press releases and act like they accomplished something. As the Washington Examiner reported, “Republicans know the repeal legislation isn’t ever going to become law. “We’re just getting it out of the way,” one GOP aide told the Examiner when asked about the repeal vote.” Just getting it out of the way, M. Speaker. What a cynical abuse of this House. It’s a sham. It’s a waste of everyone’s time. It deserves to be defeated in this House. And if it ever makes it out of the Senate, it deserves the quickest veto President Obama can muster. I reserve the balance of my time.
01.28.2015	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today was named the Democratic Ranking Member on the House Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on Nutrition. The Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes policies and statutes relating to nutrition, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and domestic commodity distribution and consumer initiatives. The Republican Chair of the Subcommittee is U.S. Rep. Jackie Walorski of Indiana. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today was named the Democratic Ranking Member on the House Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on Nutrition. The Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes policies and statutes relating to nutrition, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and domestic commodity distribution and consumer initiatives. The Republican Chair of the Subcommittee is U.S. Rep. Jackie Walorski of Indiana. Rep. McGovern has been a long-time champion in the fight against hunger “I am honored by this appointment and ready to keep fighting for critical anti-hunger programs,” Rep. McGovern said. “I look forwarding to working with Chairwoman Walorski and my other colleagues on the Subcommittee. There is a lot to do – despite the economic recovery millions of American families are struggling to put food on the table. We can end hunger once and for all if we muster the political will to do it.” Rep. McGovern was also named a member on the Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture and Research. The press release from Agriculture Ranking Democrat Colin Peterson announcing the subcommittee assignments is below: For Immediate Release: January 28, 2015 Media Contact: Liz Friedlander 202-225-1564, liz.friedlander@mail.house.gov Peterson Announces Ag Subcommittee Ranking Members U.S. House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn., today announced the Democratic Ranking Members and Subcommittee membership for the House Agriculture Committee’s six Subcommittees. Peterson will serve as an ex officio member of all subcommittees. Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Jurisdiction: Policies, statutes, and markets relating to commodities including barley, cotton, cottonseed, corn, grain sorghum, honey, mohair, oats, other oilseeds, peanuts, pulse crops, rice, soybeans, sugar, wheat, and wool; including the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management policies and statutes, including Federal Crop Insurance; producer data and privacy issues. Oversight: Departmental, agency, and office oversight and investigations with respect to the mission areas of the Risk Management Agency and applicable operations of the Farm Service Agency. Ranking Member Tim Walz (MN-1) Cherie Bustos (IL-17) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Brad Ashford (NE-2) David Scott (GA-13) Jim Costa (CA-16) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy and Credit Jurisdiction: Policies, statutes, and markets relating to commodity exchanges; agricultural credit; rural development; energy; rural electrification. Ranking Member David Scott (GA-13) Filemon Vela (TX-34) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Subcommittee on Conservation and Forestry Jurisdiction: Policies and statutes relating to resource conservation, forestry and all forests under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Agriculture. Ranking Member Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Ann Kuster (NH-2) Rick Nolan (MN-8) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-1) Subcommittee on Nutrition Jurisdiction: Policies and statutes relating to nutrition, including the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and domestic commodity distribution and consumer initiatives. Ranking Member Jim McGovern (MA-2) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Alma Adams (NC-12) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Stacey Plaskett (VI-AL) Brad Ashford (NE-2) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Subcommittee on Biotechnology, Horticulture and Research Jurisdiction: Policies, statutes, and markets relating to horticulture, including fruits, vegetables, nuts, and ornamentals; bees; and organic agriculture; policies and statutes relating to marketing and promotion orders; pest and disease management; bioterrorism; adulteration and quarantine matters; research, education, and extension; and biotechnology. Ranking Member Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Jim McGovern (MA-2) Ann Kuster (NH-2) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Jurisdiction: Policies, statutes, and markets relating to all livestock, poultry, dairy, and seafood, including all products thereof; the inspection, marketing, and promotion of such commodities and products; aquaculture; animal welfare; grazing; foreign agricultural assistance and trade promotion. Ranking Member Jim Costa (CA-16) Stacey Plaskett (VI-AL) Filemon Vela (TX-34) Rick Nolan (MN-8) Cherie Bustos (IL-17) ###
01.21.2015	Today marks the five-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s dreadful Citizens United decision, in which the Court ruled that corporations have the same right to free speech as people. Despite the ruling in Citizens United, the Constitution was never intended to give corporations the same rights as the American people. My amendment clarifies that corporations, whether they are for-profit or non-profit entities, are not people with constitutional rights. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today announced that he has reintroduced HJ Res 23, the “People’s Rights” constitutional amendment, in the House of Representatives. Today marks the five-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s dreadful Citizens United decision, in which the Court ruled that corporations have the same right to free speech as people. The ruling effectively reversed decades of precedent recognizing the authority of the people to regulate corporate spending in our elections and sparked the growing movement across the country to overturn the Court’s decision and to reclaim our democracy. “Despite the ruling in Citizens United, the Constitution was never intended to give corporations the same rights as the American people,” Rep. McGovern said. “My amendment clarifies that corporations, whether they are for-profit or non-profit entities, are not people with constitutional rights.” This legislation is identical to HJ Res . 21 in the 113th Congress. “People who work at corporations have rights. Corporations themselves do not and should not have these same rights under the Constitution,” Rep. McGovern continued. The amendment also clearly protects the people’s rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free exercise of religion and freedom of association. It simply prohibits courts from pretending that corporations are people when it comes to our Constitution. In addition to HJ Res 23, Rep. McGovern is also an original co-sponsor of the “Democracy for All Amendment,” also introduced today. That amendment would provide Congress and the states with the authority to determine reasonable regulations on campaign financing and distinguish between natural persons and other artificial entities under campaign finance laws. ###
01.21.2015	Tonight the President laid out a bold – but achievable – agenda to increase prosperity for all Americans. We continue to see strong economic growth as we recover from the worst recession since the 1930’s. But too many middle class families – and those trying to get into the middle class – have not fully benefited from that growth. That has to change. We especially need to extend ladders of opportunity to those struggling in poverty. The question before us now is whether or not the new Republican Congress will agree to work with Democrats in a meaningful, thoughtful and bipartisan way, or if they will continue to be the “Party of No.” I hope for the sake of the country they make the right choice.
01.15.2015	The recent news out of Nigeria is appalling, with Boko Haram murdering thousands of innocent civilians. The government of Nigeria and its regional neighbors must increase and coordinate their efforts to stop the violence against defenseless villages. The international community, including the United States, should do all it can to protect and provide humanitarian assistance to the Nigerian people – especially those who have fled or escaped Boko Haram. The U.S., in particular, should help northeastern Nigeria establish early warning systems and other proven methods that help local communities avoid violent attacks. And even though other events may dominate the news, I call on every person of conscience to keep the people of Nigeria in their thoughts. share: f t “The recent news out of Nigeria is appalling, with Boko Haram murdering thousands of innocent civilians. The government of Nigeria and its regional neighbors must increase and coordinate their efforts to stop the violence against defenseless villages. The international community, including the United States, should do all it can to protect and provide humanitarian assistance to the Nigerian people – especially those who have fled or escaped Boko Haram. The U.S., in particular, should help northeastern Nigeria establish early warning systems and other proven methods that help local communities avoid violent attacks. And even though other events may dominate the news, I call on every person of conscience to keep the people of Nigeria in their thoughts.”
01.13.2015	I’ve come to the floor today to give a voice to those who are hungry, to share their struggles and to challenge my House colleagues to take meaningful action to #End Hunger Now. Last week, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities released a troubling new report estimating that roughly 1 million unemployed Americans will be cut off from SNAP benefits over the course of 2016. The report anticipates that those affected will lose between $150 - $200 per person per month in food benefits, cuts that will cause serious hardship.This is shameful. We should be working to end hunger now, not making it worse. share: f t January 13, 2015 M. Speaker, I’ve come to the floor today to give a voice to those who are hungry, to share their struggles and to challenge my House colleagues to take meaningful action to #End Hunger Now. Last week, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities released a troubling new report estimating that roughly 1 million unemployed Americans will be cut off from SNAP benefits over the course of 2016. The report anticipates that those affected will lose between $150 - $200 per person per month in food benefits, cuts that will cause serious hardship. M. Speaker, this is shameful. We should be working to end hunger now, not making it worse. The 1996 welfare law limits individuals aged 18-50 who aren’t disabled or caring for young children to three months of SNAP benefits in any 36-month period if they aren’t employed or in a work training program for 20 hours or more a week. During times of high unemployment, governors can request a waiver to the 3-month time limit for their state. During the Great Recession, governors – both Republicans and Democrats – in 46 states have requested – and have been granted – some type of waiver from the 3-month time limit. This enabled unemployed adults to continue to look for a job in a tough job market without going hungry. M. Speaker, our economy continues to improve and unemployment rates across the country are falling. But we aren’t out of the woods yet. And, the most vulnerable among us – those with limited education and skills – continue to struggle to find work. In October 2014, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities estimated there were two unemployed workers for every available position. By that measure, even if every available job were filled by an unemployed individual, there still would not be enough jobs for everyone who needed one. When the current 3-month time limit waivers expire, the problem is that most states offer few – if any- job training programs. They aren’t required to do so. And, in states that do offer work programs, the number of individuals who need them far outnumbers the number of slots available. Come 2016, an unemployed adult actively looking for work – no matter how many job postings they respond to or how many resumes they send out - will be arbitrarily cut off from receiving food benefits through no fault of their own. The 3-month time limit is a severe penalty that hurts an already vulnerable population. According to USDA data, those who would be affected have an average monthly income of only 19 percent of the poverty line; they often do not qualify for other types of assistance. M. Speaker, it is unconscionable that 1 million of the poorest Americans would be cut off from food benefits because their state does not offer job training programs or does not have the capacity to meet the demand for those who need help improving their skills. These individuals would be left on their own at an already difficult time. They may be forced to choose between food and rent or other necessities. M. Speaker, we need to adequately fund our job training programs. And we need to ensure that unemployed adults who are diligently searching for a job don’t go hungry while they look for work. I am concerned about reports that Republican leaders want to launch yet another assault against SNAP. That would be a mistake – and a disservice to one of the most efficiently run federal programs. Even more important, it would be a disservice to so many of our citizens who are struggling in poverty. Let’s focus on ending hunger and ending poverty. Let’s bring to an end the nasty and negative rhetoric that has been used to demagogue SNAP in the last Congress. We can do better. M. Speaker, we can and should do more to end hunger now.
12.17.2014	Today is a historic, long-overdue day. At long last, the Cold War policies of the past five decades are almost over. I look forward to working with the President to consolidate and advance the measures announced today, and I commend him and his Administration for choosing to create a better future for the people of the United States and the people of Cuba. share: f t Today is a historic, long-overdue day. At long last, the Cold War policies of the past five decades are almost over. I have long supported normalizing relations between the United States and Cuba, easing travel restrictions and allowing greater engagement between our two peoples. The changes announced today by President Obama open the way for a more mature and productive relationship between our nations I wish to thank all those in the U.S. and Cuban governments whose courage, flexibility and commitment to better relations contributed to today's historic announcement and humanitarian actions. I am proud to have worked alongside Senators Leahy, Levin and Durbin and my good friend and colleague Rep. Van Hollen in jointly pursuing many of the humanitarian actions and policies announced today. Many individuals and NGOs have worked tirelessly for positive changes to U.S.-Cuban relations and called for humanitarian gestures by both governments. In particular, I am very grateful for the interventions by Pope Francis. My warmest thoughts and best wishes are with the families who are being reunited today after so many years of separation, most especially Judy Gross and the friends, colleagues and loved ones of Alan Gross and a long-imprisoned U.S. intelligence officer. I thank President Obama for resolving this difficult humanitarian matter. I look forward to working with the President to consolidate and advance the measures announced today, and I commend him and his Administration for choosing to create a better future for the people of the United States and the people of Cuba. Click Images for Full Scale THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary Fact Sheet: Charting a New Course on Cuba Today, the United States is taking historic steps to chart a new course in our relations with Cuba and to further engage and empower the Cuban people. We are separated by 90 miles of water, but brought together through the relationships between the two million Cubans and Americans of Cuban descent that live in the United States, and the 11 million Cubans who share similar hopes for a more positive future for Cuba. It is clear that decades of U.S. isolation of Cuba have failed to accomplish our enduring objective of promoting the emergence of a democratic, prosperous, and stable Cuba. At times, longstanding U.S. policy towards Cuba has isolated the United States from regional and international partners, constrained our ability to influence outcomes throughout the Western Hemisphere, and impaired the use of the full range of tools available to the United States to promote positive change in Cuba. Though this policy has been rooted in the best of intentions, it has had little effect – today, as in 1961, Cuba is governed by the Castros and the Communist party. We cannot keep doing the same thing and expect a different result. It does not serve America’s interests, or the Cuban people, to try to push Cuba toward collapse. We know from hard-learned experience that it is better to encourage and support reform than to impose policies that will render a country a failed state. With our actions today, we are calling on Cuba to unleash the potential of 11 million Cubans by ending unnecessary restrictions on their political, social, and economic activities. In that spirit, we should not allow U.S. sanctions to add to the burden of Cuban citizens we seek to help. Today, we are renewing our leadership in the Americas. We are choosing to cut loose the anchor of the past, because it is entirely necessary to reach a better future – for our national interests, for the American people, and for the Cuban people. Key Components of the Updated Policy Approach: Since taking office in 2009, President Obama has taken steps aimed at supporting the ability of the Cuban people to gain greater control over their own lives and determine their country’s future. Today, the President announced additional measures to end our outdated approach, and to promote more effectively change in Cuba that is consistent with U.S. support for the Cuban people and in line with U.S. national security interests. Major elements of the President’s new approach include: Establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba- · The President has instructed the Secretary of State to immediately initiate discussions with Cuba on the re-establishment of diplomatic relations with Cuba, which were severed in January 1961. · In the coming months, we will re-establish an embassy in Havana and carry out high-level exchanges and visits between our two governments as part of the normalization process. As an initial step, the Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs will lead the U.S. Delegation to the next round of U.S.-Cuba Migration Talks in January 2015, in Havana. · U.S. engagement will be critical when appropriate and will include continued strong support for improved human rights conditions and democratic reforms in Cuba and other measures aimed at fostering improved conditions for the Cuban people. · The United States will work with Cuba on matters of mutual concern and that advance U.S. national interests, such as migration, counternarcotics, environmental protection, and trafficking in persons, among other issues. Adjusting regulations to more effectively empower the Cuban people- · The changes announced today will soon be implemented via amendments to regulations of the Departments of the Treasury and Commerce. Our new policy changes will further enhance our goal of empowering the Cuban population. · Our travel and remittance policies are helping Cubans by providing alternative sources of information and opportunities for self-employment and private property ownership, and by strengthening independent civil society. · These measures will further increase people-to-people contact; further support civil society in Cuba; and further enhance the free flow of information to, from, and among the Cuban people. Persons must comply with all provisions of the revised regulations; violations of the terms and conditions are enforceable under U.S. law. Facilitating an expansion of travel under general licenses for the 12 existing categories of travel to Cuba authorized by law- · General licenses will be made available for all authorized travelers in the following existing categories: (1) family visits; (2) official business of the U.S. government, foreign governments, and certain intergovernmental organizations; (3) journalistic activity; (4) professional research and professional meetings; (5) educational activities; (6) religious activities; (7) public performances, clinics, workshops, athletic and other competitions, and exhibitions; (8) support for the Cuban people; (9) humanitarian projects; (10) activities of private foundations or research or educational institutes; (11) exportation, importation, or transmission of information or information materials; and (12) certain export transactions that may be considered for authorization under existing regulations and guidelines. · Travelers in the 12 categories of travel to Cuba authorized by law will be able to make arrangements through any service provider that complies with the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) regulations governing travel services to Cuba, and general licenses will authorize provision of such services. · The policy changes make it easier for Americans to provide business training for private Cuban businesses and small farmers and provide other support for the growth of Cuba’s nascent private sector. Additional options for promoting the growth of entrepreneurship and the private sector in Cuba will be explored. Facilitating remittances to Cuba by U.S. persons- · Remittance levels will be raised from $500 to $2,000 per quarter for general donative remittances to Cuban nationals (except to certain officials of the government or the Communist party); and donative remittances for humanitarian projects, support for the Cuban people, and support for the development of private businesses in Cuba will no longer require a specific license. · Remittance forwarders will no longer require a specific license. Authorizing expanded commercial sales/exports from the United States of certain goods and services- · The expansion will seek to empower the nascent Cuban private sector. Items that will be authorized for export include certain building materials for private residential construction, goods for use by private sector Cuban entrepreneurs, and agricultural equipment for small farmers. This change will make it easier for Cuban citizens to have access to certain lower-priced goods to improve their living standards and gain greater economic independence from the state. Authorizing American citizens to import additional goods from Cuba- · Licensed U.S. travelers to Cuba will be authorized to import $400 worth of goods from Cuba, of which no more than $100 can consist of tobacco products and alcohol combined. Facilitating authorized transactions between the United States and Cuba- · U.S. institutions will be permitted to open correspondent accounts at Cuban financial institutions to facilitate the processing of authorized transactions. · The regulatory definition of the statutory term “cash in advance” will be revised to specify that it means “cash before transfer of title”; this will provide more efficient financing of authorized trade with Cuba. · U.S. credit and debit cards will be permitted for use by travelers to Cuba. · These measures will improve the speed, efficiency, and oversight of authorized payments between the United States and Cuba. Initiating new efforts to increase Cubans’ access to communications and their ability to communicate freely- · Cuba has an internet penetration of about five percent—one of the lowest rates in the world. The cost of telecommunications in Cuba is exorbitantly high, while the services offered are extremely limited. · The commercial export of certain items that will contribute to the ability of the Cuban people to communicate with people in the United States and the rest of the world will be authorized. This will include the commercial sale of certain consumer communications devices, related software, applications, hardware, and services, and items for the establishment and update of communications-related systems. · Telecommunications providers will be allowed to establish the necessary mechanisms, including infrastructure, in Cuba to provide commercial telecommunications and internet services, which will improve telecommunications between the United States and Cuba. Updating the application of Cuba sanctions in third countries- · U.S.-owned or -controlled entities in third countries will be generally licensed to provide services to, and engage in financial transactions with, Cuban individuals in third countries. In addition, general licenses will unblock the accounts at U.S. banks of Cuban nationals who have relocated outside of Cuba; permit U.S. persons to participate in third-country professional meetings and conferences related to Cuba; and, allow foreign vessels to enter the United States after engaging in certain humanitarian trade with Cuba, among other measures. Pursuing discussions with the Cuban and Mexican governments to discuss our unresolved maritime boundary in the Gulf of Mexico- · Previous agreements between the United States and Cuba delimit the maritime space between the two countries within 200 nautical miles from shore. The United States, Cuba, and Mexico have extended continental shelf in an area within the Gulf of Mexico where the three countries have not yet delimited any boundaries. · The United States is prepared to invite the governments of Cuba and Mexico to discuss shared maritime boundaries in the Gulf of Mexico. Initiating a review of Cuba’s designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism- · The President has instructed the Secretary of State to immediately launch such a review, and provide a report to the President within six months regarding Cuba’s support for international terrorism. Cuba was placed on the list in 1982. Addressing Cuba’s participation in the 2015 Summit of the Americas in Panama- · President Obama will participate in the Summit of the Americas in Panama. Human rights and democracy will be key Summit themes. Cuban civil society must be allowed to participate along with civil society from other countries participating in the Summit, consistent with the region’s commitments under the Inter-American Democratic Charter. The United States welcomes a constructive dialogue among Summit governments on the Summit’s principles. Unwavering Commitment to Democracy, Human Rights, and Civil Society A critical focus of our increased engagement will include continued strong support by the United States for improved human rights conditions and democratic reforms in Cuba. The promotion of democracy supports universal human rights by empowering civil society and a person’s right to speak freely, peacefully assemble, and associate, and by supporting the ability of people to freely determine their future. Our efforts are aimed at promoting the independence of the Cuban people so they do not need to rely on the Cuban state. The U.S. Congress funds democracy programming in Cuba to provide humanitarian assistance, promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and support the free flow of information in places where it is restricted and censored. The Administration will continue to implement U.S. programs aimed at promoting positive change in Cuba, and we will encourage reforms in our high level engagement with Cuban officials. The United States encourages all nations and organizations engaged in diplomatic dialogue with the Cuban government to take every opportunity both publicly and privately to support increased respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in Cuba. Ultimately, it will be the Cuban people who drive economic and political reforms. That is why President Obama took steps to increase the flow of resources and information to ordinary Cuban citizens in 2009, 2011, and today. The Cuban people deserve the support of the United States and of an entire region that has committed to promote and defend democracy through the Inter-American Democratic Charter. ###
12.09.2014	The Senate Intelligence Committee’s report is deeply disturbing. The United States should never use torture. Period. It’s morally wrong, it’s ineffective and it puts our own troops at risk. We should do whatever it takes to make sure this sad chapter in American history is never repeated. share: f t The Senate Intelligence Committee’s report is deeply disturbing. The United States should never use torture. Period. It’s morally wrong, it’s ineffective and it puts our own troops at risk. We should do whatever it takes to make sure this sad chapter in American history is never repeated. The full report can be found here: http://www.intelligence.senate.gov/study2014/sscistudy1.pdf
12.04.2014	In a victory for Rhode Island families and advocates for environmental protection and historic preservation, the U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation to make the Blackstone River Valley National Historic Corridor a unit of the National Park System. U.S. Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI) introduced the Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park Establishment Act along with co-sponsors Richard E. Neal (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), and James Langevin (D-RI) to preserve the natural and historical significance of important sites along the Blackstone River Valley National Historic Corridor. This legislation was also introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Jack Reed (D-RI). share: f t In a victory for Rhode Island families and advocates for environmental protection and historic preservation, the U.S. House of Representatives today approved legislation to make the Blackstone River Valley National Historic Corridor a unit of the National Park System. U.S. Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI) introduced the Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park Establishment Act along with co-sponsors Richard E. Neal (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), and James Langevin (D-RI) to preserve the natural and historical significance of important sites along the Blackstone River Valley National Historic Corridor. This legislation was also introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Jack Reed (D-RI). “This is great news for Rhode Island. The Blackstone River Valley is home to the birthplace of the Industrial Revolution and it’s long past time that this national treasure take a permanent place in the National Park System to preserve its historical significance for future generations of Rhode Islanders and visitors to enjoy,” said Cicilline. “I have been an enthusiastic supporter of the Blackstone Valley National Park Initiative for many years. In my opinion, the corridor is a special place that deserves to be part of a system that includes Yosemite, Acadia and the Grand Tetons. With this vote, we are one step closer to having the volunteers and professionals of the park system safeguard this magnificent natural resource in the center of New England,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “This action represents a significant step in our efforts to preserve the history and ecology of the Blackstone Valley,” Rep. McGovern said. “It’s been a long time coming, and I commend Congressman Cicilline and Senator Reed for their leadership. I look forward to seeing the Blackstone in our National Park System.” “The Blackstone Valley is rich with natural resources, vibrant culture and historic significance. It is a source of pride for Rhode Islanders, and I am thrilled that the area is finally getting the recognition it deserves, thanks in large part to the leadership of my colleague, Congressman Cicilline,” said Langevin. In 2011, Cicilline introduced the House companion measure to the Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park Establishment Act. Last year, Cicilline testified before the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Subcommittee on Public Lands and Environmental Regulation in support of this legislation and in September the bill passed a critical hurdle when the House Committee on Natural Resources advanced the Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park Establishment Act. Cicilline also worked with House lawmakers to include the legislation in the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which was approved by the House today. Spanning from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI, the Blackstone River Valley is the birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution. The Valley’s beauty and history embodies a landscape rich in natural, historic, and cultural treasures. The legislation will help preserve these icons of industry, environment, and history for generations to come. Now that the FY15 NDAA bill has passed the House it must be approved by the U.S. Senate before being sent to the president’s desk to become law. The Senate is expected to vote on this legislation next week. ###
11.21.2014	I support President Obama's courageous and necessary action to unify families, strengthen communities and local businesses, and help fix our broken immigration system. It brings many of our hard-working neighbors out of the shadows so they can work legally, pay taxes and no longer be victimized by unscrupulous employers. It helps our police and law enforcement officers concentrate their resources on serious criminals and real security threats. It’s also the morally right thing to do. share: f t I support President Obama's courageous and necessary action to unify families, strengthen communities and local businesses, and help fix our broken immigration system. It brings many of our hard-working neighbors out of the shadows so they can work legally, pay taxes and no longer be victimized by unscrupulous employers. It helps our police and law enforcement officers concentrate their resources on serious criminals and real security threats. It’s also the morally right thing to do. Sensible, bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform has already passed the Senate. It has been awaiting House action for over a year and a half. If the Republican House Leadership is serious about this issue, they will bring that bill to the floor for debate and a vote in December.
11.15.2014	The following are the remarks given by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA02) during a panel, The Legacy of the Jesuits on U.S. Foreign Policy toward El Salvador and Central America and on the Society of Jesus, at University of Central America José Simeón Cañas on Saturday, November, 15, 2014. share: f t The following are the remarks given by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA02) during a panel, The Legacy of the Jesuits on U.S. Foreign Policy toward El Salvador and Central America and on the Society of Jesus, at University of Central America José Simeón Cañas on Saturday, November, 15, 2014. Thank you for that very kind introduction. I am here this morning because I am grateful to the Jesuits of El Salvador, and especially those who have served and those who continue to serve here at the UCA. You have been my friends, my mentors and my teachers. How I think, what I believe, how I view and evaluate what is going on in the world has been shaped by my relations with the Jesuits, before, during and after the war. The UCA itself was founded in the spirit of liberation. It is named after a Salvadoran priest, José Simeón Cañas, who as a congressman in the Constitutional Assembly championed and achieved the abolition of slavery in Central America in 1824. Abraham Lincoln didn’t sign the Emancipation Proclamation until forty years later, in 1863. So it’s right that we in the United States look to and work with the UCA to advance human rights, human dignity, freedom and equality. Many people look upon the deaths of Fathers Ignacio Ellacuría, “Nacho” Martín-Baró, Segundo Montes, Juan Ramón Moreno, Joaquín López y López, Amando López, and Elba and Celina Ramos as crimes that epitomize the harsh reality of the war and the brutality of the Salvadoran armed forces. I prefer to remember their lives. I remember how they lived, how they carried out their pastoral work, their intellectual work and research, and how they interacted with their students, friends, colleagues and the Salvadoran people. And if there is one lesson that they taught me, it was that faith is more than ritual – it means action. “Feed the Hungry” means feed the hungry. “Treat Everyone with Dignity” means every person, and especially the poor, rightfully deserve a life with dignity. One of the reasons U.S. policy changed towards El Salvador in the 1990s was because Jesuit university and college presidents from all around the United States – many who are here today – took up the challenge of the murdered Jesuits and ignited their alumni across the country to take action, not to remain silent. Those actions had tremendous power – the power of faith working to move history in support of human rights, truth, justice and peace. We come to El Salvador this weekend to commemorate the lives and the loss of our Jesuit brothers. But we are also here to reflect on what has happened over the past 25 years. I believe that U.S. policy toward El Salvador has fallen far short in the aftermath of the war. In 1995, we all but abandoned El Salvador, significantly reducing our economic and development support just when it was most needed to consolidate the peace. When we have seen increases in our development aid, it has mainly been in response to natural disasters. The U.S. should have helped lead a Marshall Plan for Peace in El Salvador over the past 20 years; instead, we did the opposite. We still don’t have robust assistance ready to support a national development strategy for El Salvador – and we certainly aren’t prioritizing projects focused on listening to, working with and helping lift up the poorest and most neglected Salvadorans, rather than economic projects that support elite interests. Even our Millennium Challenge Grants, which are targeted at strengthening Salvadoran agriculture and related infrastructure, and now at supporting development projects along the Pacific Coast, were held hostage to private sector interests for too long. But I’m glad that all conditions have now been resolved and I’m hopeful that development projects that take into account the interests of the communities on the coast might now move forward. So, we Americans should not be surprised that we are now reaping what we have helped sow. It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to understand that had we invested significantly over the past 20 years in jobs, education, health care, food security, youth, women and families, fewer Salvadorans would have felt forced to abandon their homes and seek a life elsewhere. Not only did U.S. policies export gang violence to Central America, we did precious little to invest in preventing violence from taking root. With all these families and unaccompanied children arriving at the U.S. border – many with terrible stories to tell – it is time to develop a policy that is good for the people of El Salvador, Central America and the United States. Will we help our friends and neighbors create jobs and greater opportunities for young people and marginalized communities and towns? Will we help strengthen judicial institutions to investigate and prosecute those responsible for violence? Will we help those same institutions root out corruption and identify those among society who are in league with or benefit from criminal activity and violence? Will we invest in the kind of citizen security and infrastructure that benefits all Salvadorans, not just the wealthy few? President Sanchez Cerén is in Washington right now, and he and the other Central American presidents met with U.S. Vice-President Joe Biden yesterday. I hope that the Obama Administration and the U.S. Congress will decide to make long-term investments in youth, in development, and in citizen security. I hope they will embrace the positive lessons learned from USAID’s recent programs on youth violence prevention. As they work on these proposals, I hope the U.S. and Salvadoran governments will make sure that programs are designed in partnership with civil society and affected communities – a real partnership. We in the U.S. government need to be committed to reforming and strengthening institutions, and we have to make sure that our partners in Central America, most especially the regional governments, are also genuinely committed to using these investments for real institutional reform, and for development that benefits youth and marginal communities. We need to make sure that civil society and affected communities are wholly integrated into designing and evaluating these projects. And when I look around the region, I feel like the most potential for creating these types of sensitive and genuine partnerships is here in El Salvador. Such long-term investments not only need to be made, they will need to be sustained. I am very concerned that the Administration, and especially the new U.S. Congress, will try to do everything “on the cheap.” And meanwhile, the questions remain whether we in the United States will respect our own laws, as well as international humanitarian law, and welcome those who come to our borders in need of protection? Or will we continue to spend money primarily on increasing border security, expanding detention facilities, denying immigrants legal counsel, streamlining deportation proceedings, and overwhelming, rather than strengthening, our immigration courts? My country owes a great deal to the hundreds of thousands of Salvadorans who have made the United States their home. They are great assets to our local communities, working hard, opening small businesses, investing in their neighborhoods, and all the while continuing to invest in their families and former communities here in El Salvador. It reminds me a lot of my own Irish-Polish immigrant heritage. I first learned about El Salvador from refugees in 1983 who told my former boss, Congressman Joe Moakley, their stories. I believe that Salvadoran children and families telling similar stories about why they are trying to escape gang violence and criminal networks can make a difference today. Policymakers need to understand this reality. It also requires a commitment to invest in new policies, new ideas, new approaches – both here in El Salvador and in the United States. When we deal with criminal and gang violence in the United States, we know we need to deal with education, social services and prevention programs, and with jobs and opportunities for young people. I don’t know why anyone believes it’s any different here. The Government of El Salvador has made great progress. When I first traveled to El Salvador, the FMLN was in the mountains, settling differences through the barrel of a gun. Today, the Salvadoran people have just elected its second president from the FMLN political party. Peace has made a tremendous difference. The Salvadoran people’s commitment to peace has made a tremendous difference. And today, political disputes are settled in the political and public arena. I am grateful to be able to honor the lives of the Jesuit martyrs, and to know that their memory and their example continue to influence so many people, even now, 25 years after their murders. I am also proud that we will be presenting later today a gift from the Moakley Foundation in Massachusetts for the UCA. I still believe that one of the best investments we can make in El Salvador is to support this university. Future leaders of El Salvador are being educated here today – maybe one of you sitting in the audience will be president of El Salvador one day, or a financial leader, or a teacher whose students will change the world, or a social worker who will work with communities and design the model that lifts thousands of Salvadorans out of poverty and into a dignified life. It is all possible, here at the UCA. Education is the great liberator. The history of the UCA – and the lives and work of the Jesuit community – have long stood for an engaged and educated society, able to transform itself for the good of all people. This is why universities throughout Central America and around the world have created partnerships with the UCA. The UCA is the place where new ideas, new visions, and new leadership come to be nurtured and to flourish. And the UCA has always been where the voices of the poor were amplified – not just during the war, but in the hard work of advancing and consolidating the peace. We all know there is no quick fix to the problems facing El Salvador. But many of the solutions to those problems are ones that the Jesuits and the UCA have advocated for as long as I can remember. All people deserve to be treated with dignity. Investing in the poor means listening to those who live in marginal communities and letting them decide how best to address the many problems that affect their daily lives. Certainly, confronting violent gangs and criminal networks requires strong police and judicial systems. But it also requires that those institutions be free of corruption, transparent, respectful of basic human rights, able to carry out their duties at a decent living wage, and in harmony with the communities that rely on their protection. The good news is that there are solutions, and we basically know what they are. I believe with the commitment to act and press policymakers to do the right thing for the majority of Salvadorans, especially the poor, we can all make a difference. And I rely on the UCA and the Jesuits in El Salvador and the United States to remain committed and engaged, and to help show us the way. In 1982, in a speech at Santa Clara University, Father Ellacuría spoke eloquently about the role of the university. He began by saying: “ Our historical reality – the reality of El Salvador, the reality of the Third World, that is, the reality of the larger part of the world and the most universal – is characterized fundamentally by the dominance of falsehood over truth, of injustice over justice, of oppression over liberty, of scarcity over abundance, in short of evil over good . . .” He then went on to describe the role of the university this way: “We ask ourselves what to do with the University. And we answer, above all, from the ethical point of view: transform it, do what is possible so that good wins over evil, liberty over oppression, justice over injustice, truth over falsehood and love over hate. . . “A Christian university must take into account the gospel preference for the poor. This does not mean that only the poor study at the university; it does not mean that the university should abdicate its mission of academic excellence – excellence needed to solve complex social problems. It does mean that the university should be present intellectually where it is needed: to provide science for those who have no science; to provide skills for the unskilled; to be a voice for those who have no voice; to give intellectual support for those who do not possess the academic qualifications to promote and legitimize their truth and their rights. I do not mean to be presumptuous by quoting Fr. Ellacuría to all of you who work and study at the UCA, but for me, those words resonate as strongly today as they did three decades ago. How can we look at the agony and desperation of so many Salvadorans and Central Americans and not feel called upon to respond generously and in solidarity with them, their families and their communities? I strongly believe – and it is one of the most important legacies of the Jesuit martyrs – that we are here to help the least among us. For me, this is the most important mission – for governments, for churches, for universities, for all of us. As Professor Dave O’ Brien, at the College of the Holy Cross, a Jesuit college in my home town of Worcester, wrote earlier this week, the challenge for all of us is in “creating the next chapter.” When I think of the lives and the deaths of those who we honor and who bring us together for this reflection, I believe that if they were still here with us, experiencing El Salvador’s current reality, they would be calling us to the same commitment, built on the same ideals. These eight individuals – six priests, two women – they died for a reason. What they stood for is very powerful. As long as I live I will be inspired by their words and by their example. It is a powerful legacy. Let us build upon it together. Let us create the next chapter. Thank you.
10.28.2014	The 53-year-old economic embargo against Cuba has not worked. It has not overturned the Cuban government. But it has done grave harm to the lives of ordinary Cubans and increasingly isolated the United States in the region, the hemisphere and the world. The Cold War is over. It’s time to change. share: f t “Today, the United Nations General Assembly will debate – for the 23rd year in a row – a resolution condemning the United States economic embargo against Cuba. Last year, only the U.S. and Israel voted against it. It is past time for the Obama Administration to take concrete steps to ease restrictions against Cuba, reestablish diplomatic relations, and initiate a mutually-beneficial dialogue to end the conflict between our nations. Better relations would allow the United States to more effectively raise concerns about human rights on the island. The 53-year-old economic embargo has not worked. It has not overturned the Cuban government. But it has done grave harm to the lives of ordinary Cubans and increasingly isolated the United States in the region, the hemisphere and the world. The Cold War is over. It’s time to change.” ###
10.22.2014	I was pleased to meet Minister Garzón, whom I have admired and respected for many years. We had a wide-ranging discussion about the importance of labor rights to the peace process and how much remains to be done in Colombia to guarantee labor rights and protect workers and labor activists. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern met yesterday in Washington with Colombia’s new Minister of Labor, Luis Garzon. Rep. McGovern has issued the following statement about the meeting: “I was pleased to meet Minister Garzón, whom I have admired and respected for many years. We had a wide-ranging discussion about the importance of labor rights to the peace process and how much remains to be done in Colombia to guarantee labor rights and protect workers and labor activists. “Like many of my House colleagues, I do not believe the Labor Action Plan has been fulfilled. While the Ministry of Labor has made several institutional advances, the reality facing workers outside of Bogota remains difficult and often perilous. Workers attempting to organize and negotiate better working conditions and wages consistently face the threat of violence, including murder, and the loss of their jobs. Few if any of these murders, assaults, bombings, let alone hundreds of death threats, are fully investigated and prosecuted. Illegal sub-contracting remains common. Inspections by the Labor Ministry are infrequent and uneven in quality. And when sanctions are levied against abusive employers, they are generally ignored. This continues to be the reality facing the majority of Colombia’s workers, including those in the LAP’s five priority sectors. “I am hopeful that the Constitutional Court’s August 20th decision (C-593/20 Agosto 2014) will strengthen the legal framework to put an end to all forms of illegal sub-contracting. I look forward to continuing to work with President Santos, Labor Minister Garzón, Attorney General Montealegre and National Protection Unit Director Villamizar, as well as their U.S. counterparts in the White House, U.S. Department of Labor, USTR and State Department to ensure that the promises to protect workers and to respect and promote labor rights made in the LAP are truly and genuinely fulfilled.” ###
10.02.2014	I strongly protest the detention of Nabeel Rajab, president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, and I call upon the Government of Bahrain to release him immediately. share: f t I strongly protest the detention of Nabeel Rajab, president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, and I call upon the Government of Bahrain to release him immediately. According to reports by international human rights organizations, Mr. Rajab was detained for questioning because he posted criticism of the government on his Twitter account. If the U.S. and the Government of Bahrain are to remain allies, then Bahrain, at a minimum, must uphold the right to freedom of expression, which includes criticism of the government. It is outrageous that Nabeel Rajab could once again face years of imprisonment for the non-violent expression of an opinion.
09.23.2014	“I welcome the Administration’s announcement today on landmines. It brings the United States that much closer to full compliance and becoming a party to the international landmine ban treaty. I will continue to press for changes on the Korean Peninsula, because I believe that appropriate ‘material and operational solutions’ can be developed and are within reach. I am also pleased that the announcement reflects the 1997 legislative effort led by the late Lane Evans in the House, of which I was proud to be an original cosponsor.” FACT SHEET: Changes to U.S. Anti-Personnel Landmine Policy President Clinton, in his 1994 address to the United Nations General Assembly, called for the eventual elimination of anti-personnel landmines (APL). Today, the Obama Administration is announcing new policy changes that bring the United States closer to that goal. Specifically, the United States is aligning our APL policy outside the Korean Peninsula with the key requirements of the Ottawa Convention, the international treaty prohibiting the use, stockpiling, production, and transfer of APL, which more than 160 countries have joined, including all of our NATO Allies. This means that United States will: not use APL outside the Korean Peninsula; not assist, encourage, or induce anyone outside the Korean Peninsula to engage in activity prohibited by the Ottawa Convention; and undertake to destroy APL stockpiles not required for the defense of the Republic of Korea. This change to U.S. APL policy builds on the announcement that the U.S. delegation made in June at the Third Review Conference of the Ottawa Convention in Maputo, Mozambique, that the United States will not produce or otherwise acquire any anti-personnel munitions that are not compliant with the Ottawa Convention, including to replace such munitions as they expire in the coming years. It also follows previous steps the United States has taken to end the use of all non-detectable mines and all persistent mines, which can remain active for years after the end of a conflict. The measures announced today represent a further step to advance the humanitarian aims of the Ottawa Convention and to bring U.S. practice in closer alignment with a global humanitarian movement that has had a demonstrated positive impact in reducing civilian casualties from APL. Even as we take this further step, the unique circumstances on the Korean Peninsula and our commitment to the defense of the Republic of Korea preclude us from changing our anti-personnel landmine policy there at this time. We will continue our diligent efforts to pursue material and operational solutions that would be compliant with and ultimately allow us to accede to the Ottawa Convention while ensuring our ability to meet our alliance commitments to the Republic of Korea. The security of the Republic of Korea will continue to be a paramount concern as we move forward with these efforts. World Leader in Humanitarian Mine Action The United States is the world’s single largest financial supporter of humanitarian mine action, which includes not only clearance of landmines, but also medical rehabilitation and vocational training for those injured by landmines and other explosive remnants of war. Since the United States Humanitarian Mine Action Program was established in 1993, the United States has provided over $2.3 billion in aid in over 90 countries for conventional weapons destruction programs. Through this assistance, the United States has: Helped 15 countries to become free from the humanitarian impact of landmines; Provided emergency assistance to support the removal or mitigation of conventional weapons including landmines and other unexploded ordnance in more than 18 countries; and Provided assistive devices and other rehabilitation services to over 250,000 people in 35 countries through the U.S. Agency for International Development-managed Leahy War Victims Fund This vital U.S. assistance has helped post-conflict countries consolidate peace and set the stage for reconstruction and development. Clearance efforts and victim assistance programs return land and infrastructure to productive use and assist in the rehabilitation and reintegration into society of survivors of mine and explosive remnants of war incidents. Further information on U.S. humanitarian demining and conventional weapons destruction programs can be found in the State Department’s annual To Walk the Earth in Safety report.
09.19.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), along with his Rules Committee colleague U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) have coordinated a bipartisan letter calling on the House Leadership urging them to bring an authorization for the use of military force in Iraq when Congress returns to Washington in November. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), along with his Rules Committee colleague U.S. Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) have coordinated a bipartisan letter calling on the House Leadership urging them to bring an authorization for the use of military force in Iraq to the floor when Congress returns to Washington in November. The letter’s signatories represent a broad range of opinion on the use of force in Iraq, but the Members are united in their belief that Congress should uphold its Constitutional and institutional responsibilities to act on matters of war and peace. “We believe the terms of the July 25th concurrent resolution approved by the House have been met and that U.S. Armed Forces are engaged in sustained combat operations in Iraq, and there is an increasing bipartisan recognition that the time has come to take up and debate an authorization regarding U.S. military operations in Iraq,” the letter to Speaker John Boehner and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi says. The other members who signed the letter are: U.S. Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC), U.S. Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA), U.S. Rep. Richard Nugent (R-FL), U.S. Rep. Paul Broun (R-GA), U.S. Rep. Steve Stockman (R-TX), U.S. Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), U.S. Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT), U.S. Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN), U.S. Rep. John Lewis (D-GA) and U.S. Rep. John Duncan (R-TN).
09.18.2014	M. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this rule. Let us be very clear about one of the implications of the language before us: A vote for this rule is a vote to shut off the mechanisms of the War Powers Resolution for the next two months. If any Member of this House has any concerns about the on-going military operations in Iraq, the potential of U.S. military airstrikes in Syria, or the possible introduction of U.S. combat ground forces into either country, then this rule will tie their hands for the next two months. If any Member introduces a privileged resolution under the terms of the War Powers Resolution, this rule freezes that resolution in place and stops the clock that would normally advance under the War Powers Resolution. It is perfectly clear that the House will not debate and vote on an authorization on Iraq at this time. Unfortunately, it is not clear if any vote will ever happen at any time in this House, even after we come back in November – even though there’s a growing bipartisan consensus that such an authorization is needed. This rule freezes out each and every Member of this House from taking any action to move forward the possibility of a vote on Iraq or Syria under the terms put in place by the War Powers Resolution. On August 8th, the U.S. began daily bombing in Iraq – at first to protect the Yazidis trapped on Mount Sinjar. But almost immediately, the bombing campaign expanded to include infrastructure; and then to provide air support to ground operations to retake territory by Iraqi and Kurdish military forces; and then to protect more major infrastructure; and this week to dislodge ISIL from the environs of Baghdad. For six weeks I have been waiting, patiently, for the Leadership of this House to recognize what we all know is true: the U.S. is engaged in hostilities and carrying out sustained combat operations in Iraq and that it is time for the House to debate and vote on an authorization. Yesterday, this House voted to authorize training and equipping Syrian opposition forces. But we have yet to debate and vote on an authorization for the combat operations we are already carrying out in Iraq. Over 150 airstrikes – bombs falling nearly every day – in Iraq. And if that doesn’t count as sustained combat, then I don’t know what the hell does. I hear the Senate is drafting an authorization. But no such leadership is happening here in the House. The Speaker says he is waiting for the White House to send a request for an authorization to the House. But as I’ve said before, the President has stated that he thinks he has all the authority he needs or wants. It is Congress that is failing to carry out its Constitutional responsibilities. It is Congress that is shirking its duties. It is Congress that is sniping from the sidelines while avoiding any responsibility for the servicemen and women we are placing in harm’s way. In July, this House overwhelmingly passed a resolution that I offered along with Walter Jones and Barbara Lee requiring the House to vote on an authorization. And I have been waiting – patiently and respectfully – for the Speaker to schedule such a vote. Instead, this rule goes in the opposite direction, shutting down the ability of any Member to introduce a privileged resolution and allowing it to mature as set forth in the War Powers Resolution. I understand that this restriction is often included when Congress is in recess for a prolonged period of time. But this time is different, Mr. Speaker, and every Member of this chamber knows it is different. Not only are we engaged in sustained combat operations in Iraq, but the President announced last week that he intends to escalate and expand those military operations, and quite likely extend them to Syria. This is a moment in history when the House should not and must not remain silent, let alone slink out of town. We have a responsibility to act. Until that happens, I urge my colleagues to vote down this rule.
09.16.2014	M. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this Rule and in opposition to the amendment on Syria that will be offered later today. If it was a bad idea before to get involved in Syria’s civil war, why is it now a good idea? Is it only because ISIL has expanded its operations over a fluid border into Iraq? How long will we support the Syrian Free Army? Who are these people? How much will it cost? What happens if and when our weapons fall into the wrong hands? What are the countries in the region offering in terms of substantive solutions? What is the clearly-defined mission? How does this end? Do we have answers to any of these questions as we prepare to vote? We’re talking about war, M. Speaker. When you drop bombs on people, that’s war. And we can talk all we want about so-called ‘boots on the ground,’ but unless some of our soldiers weren’t given shoes, we already have boots on the ground. We need to be honest about that. We have trained and equipped Iraqi soldiers for over a decade. And for what? To watch them shed their uniforms and to turn their weapons over to ISIL? Is that what we’re doing here again, M. Speaker? If the real purpose of U.S. military operations in Syria is to bring the killers of the two American journalists to justice, then perhaps good intelligence and a well-prepared special forces operation could do so. Just like we hunted down Osama bin Laden. And I want to be perfectly clear on one other point. Any amendment to provide Title 10 authority to train and equip Syrian opposition forces must not be seen – in any way – as an authorization for U.S. Armed Forces to engage in hostilities in Iraq or Syria. It must not be seen as a substitute for specific congressional action. Authorization to carry out sustained military operations is not something that should be stuck into a conference report. There should be nothing “back door” about it. That would be an insult to our uniformed men and women, an insult to their families, an insult to this House, and an insult to the American People. On July 25th, this House voted 370-to-40 -- 370 to 40 – in favor of my resolution to require specific Congressional authorization for “sustained combat” operations by U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq. Yet since August 8th, the U.S. Navy and Air Force have flown more than 2,700 missions against the Islamic State in Iraq, including 156 airstrikes. These airstrikes have occurred almost daily over the past 6 weeks. Last week the President announced that those operations will escalate and likely expand into Syria. This morning they expanded to targets near Baghdad. If that doesn’t qualify as “sustained combat,” Mr. Speaker, I don’t know what does. So if this House is serious about what it said in July, then we should demand a vote on congressional authorization for U.S. military operations in Iraq and Syria. Anything less would constitute yet another failure on the part of this House to carry out its Constitutional duties. Anything less would make a mockery of the vote this House took in July. But if this Leadership gets its way, we will leave Washington for nearly two months without such a vote. And I expect – we all expect – that during that time U.S. combat operations in Iraq and Syria will expand and escalate. I know this vote is hard. I know it’s politically difficult. But we were not elected to duck the hard votes. We weren’t elected to avoid difficult choices. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting ‘No’ on this rule and on the amendment.
08.28.2014	Yesterday, Congressman Walter Jones, Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Congressman Jim McGovern sent a letter to Speaker Boehner calling for debate and vote on an authorization for the use of military force in Iraq when the House returns on September 8th. share: f t Yesterday, Congressman Walter Jones, Congresswoman Barbara Lee and Congressman Jim McGovern sent a letter to Speaker Boehner calling for debate and vote on an authorization for the use of military force in Iraq when the House returns on September 8th. “It is imperative that Congress uphold its constitutional duty to authorize the use of our military. My colleagues and I urge Speaker Boehner to call a debate and a vote on an authorization to expand military force in Iraq so Congress can meet its constitutional responsibility. The situation in Iraq is a grave one and before sending our uniformed men and women into danger we owe it to them and the people we represent to fully debate the matter and have a vote,” said Congressman Jones. “It is clear that the current mission in Iraq has extended beyond the limited, specific and targeted scope of preventing genocide and ensuring the security of U.S. personnel. The President must seek Congressional authorization before the situation escalates further,” said Congresswoman Lee. “Congress must have the opportunity to debate all options and consequences, including military, economic and diplomatic ones, to prevent the Islamic State (IS) from further destabilizing the region. If an authorization is necessary, it must be limited and specific to prevent passing of another blank check for endless war.” “I know for some this would be an uncomfortable vote before an election -- but American forces are clearly engaged in military operations and being put in harm’s way,” Congressman McGovern said. “For their sake we owe them a thoughtful and deliberative process and an up-or-down vote. It’s clear that the U.S. mission has gone well beyond simply humanitarian assistance, beyond protecting U.S. personnel, and beyond just Iraq. If the overwhelming, bipartisan vote we took in July means anything, the Speaker should bring an authorization to the floor for a debate and a vote.” Congressmen McGovern and Jones and Congresswoman Lee were the principle cosponsors of the bipartisan H. Con. Res. 105, which overwhelmingly passed the House before recess with 370 votes. The resolution stated: “The President shall not deploy or maintain United States Armed Forces in a sustained combat role in Iraq without specific statutory authorization for such use enacted after the date of the adoption of this concurrent resolution.” The letter specifically calls on the House Foreign Affairs Committee to draft the authorization in order to provide a more nuanced approach that will include diplomatic and economic dimensions. Click here to read the full letter.
08.21.2014	Rep. McGovern recently made several requests to Bahrain’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a guarantee of access to Bahrain for himself, one of his staff, and Brian Dooley, Director of the Human Rights Defenders program at Human Rights First. Rep. McGovern planned a fact-finding mission and sought to engage in discussions of the current situation with all involved parties – Bahraini government, opposition, and civil society organizations. Bahrain’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs failed to provide a guarantee that Rep. McGovern would be able to travel to Bahrain. share: f t Rep. McGovern expressed disappointment at the news that the Bahraini government refused to grant him a guarantee of access to Bahrain. “Not allowing me access to Bahrain serves to prove that the Bahraini ruling elite does not believe in its own claims of progress toward peace and reform. As became evident with the recent expulsion of the Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Tom Malinowski, Bahraini government seeks full control over the narrative about their country and does not tolerate any voices of dissent. I was eager to meet with all sides of the tensions in Bahrain, to gather first-hand accounts from all perspectives. It seems, however, the Bahraini government was afraid that the reality on the ground will differ too much from the reality they try to paint to the American public here in the U.S.” “Silencing disagreement has been an eagerly used tactic by the Bahraini government, both domestically and internationally. They did not want me to meet with the representatives of Bahraini opposition, likely, out of fear that meeting with a U.S. official could further boost their legitimacy. But preventing me from traveling to Bahrain is a senseless and unproductive step. With or without me in the country, silencing opposition will never work as an effective strategy for long-term peace and stability.” “The U.S. has a direct interest in stability in Bahrain – our Fifth Fleet is stationed there. Therefore, we cannot continue turning a blind eye to Bahrain’s reluctance to engage in a meaningful dialogue with its opposition. The need for a meaningful dialogue is urgent. But with key opposition and civil society leaders in jail and with no senior government officials present at the table, the dialogue that would deliver long lasting solutions is impossible. History teaches us time and time again – we need to seize a chance for a peaceful political solution, while one is still possible.” Rep. McGovern recently made several requests to Bahrain’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a guarantee of access to Bahrain for himself, one of his staff, and Brian Dooley, Director of the Human Rights Defenders program at Human Rights First. Rep. McGovern planned a fact-finding mission and sought to engage in discussions of the current situation with all involved parties – Bahraini government, opposition, and civil society organizations. Bahrain’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs failed to provide a guarantee that Rep. McGovern would be able to travel to Bahrain.
08.08.2014	“These strikes do involve the United States directly in hostilities, regardless of how limited they are and regardless of whether there’s a humanitarian purpose involved. The President is acting according to the powers of his office – and Congress must do the same. If these operations are continuing when Congress returns in September, then Congress needs to take action to authorize them. 370 Members of the House voted for my amendment last month. We made it very clear that we believe Congress has a significant constitutional role to play. “When we bomb ISIS, which is a horrible group, we have to realize that we are heading down the path of choosing sides in an ancient religious and sectarian war inside Iraq. While choosing sides may be something Congress decides that it wants to support, it goes beyond the humanitarian mission of providing relief to civilians stranded on a mountain in imminent danger of dying of hunger and thirst. It goes beyond protecting our military and diplomatic personnel. I am concerned that we are already seeing these different missions blur into one in the press and in Congress. That is deeply troubling.” ###
08.05.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) traveled earlier this week (August 3-4) on a two-day fact-finding mission to the U.S.-Mexico border. He was accompanied on the trip by Adam Isacson of the Washington Office on Latin America. Rep. McGovern released the following statement about his trip: share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) traveled earlier this week (August 3-4) on a two-day fact-finding mission to the U.S.-Mexico border. He was accompanied on the trip by Adam Isacson of the Washington Office on Latin America. Rep. McGovern released the following statement about his trip. View Photos from Congressman McGovern's Trip Listen to Audio Description of the Trip “I have just returned from two days in McAllen, TX and Reynosa, Mexico, the busiest border zone in the nation in terms of apprehensions at the border. It is also second only to Tucson as the deadliest place for migrants to cross, with a large number dying each year in U.S. territory from dehydration and exposure. It is here in the Rio Grande Valley that over the past nine months, tens of thousands of unaccompanied children and families from Central America have voluntarily turned themselves into U.S. authorities upon crossing the U.S.-Mexico border. “I visited migrant shelters in both countries run by religious communities who provide basic services to these vulnerable migrants: a safe place to stay, meals, used clothing, basic medical services, showers, and caring and friendly faces. I spent time with Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and agents and other front-line border personnel who safeguard our ports of entry and the length of the border in-between. They deal with the whole range of border issues, including the recent increase in families and unaccompanied children from Central America. I was incredibly impressed with their efficient, professional and compassionate performance of their duties. Time and again they told me that our border has never been more secure than it is today. “The border is more calm and orderly than it was in June. This is due to better coordination between U.S. agencies, the rapid reallocation of some federal resources to the Rio Grande Valley border for infrastructure and personnel, and fewer families and children crossing the border, although it is not clear whether this is a permanent or temporary lull. “A true humanitarian crisis exists in Central America where families and children face unspeakable violence and the threat of death, of being forcibly recruited to serve in murderous gangs, or forced into sexual slavery by those same criminal groups. I heard how many of these children traveled hundreds of miles, under the most extreme conditions, often unaccompanied by a parent. As a father, it was heartbreaking to see these kids in small, crowded holding cells. They are not criminals. They are children and families in need of protection. Many certainly fit the legal definition of "refugee." And if our immigration courts determine they are refugees in need of protection, then they deserve to stay and be welcomed in our country--a country with a long and proud tradition of being a sanctuary for those fleeing violence. “I also firmly believe that Central American governments must stop their business-as-usual approach to this crisis and stop leaving so many of their citizens unprotected, at the mercy of violent gangs. They must confront these criminal actors and ensure that they face justice. They must root out corruption by the government officials, military and police that have allowed these gangs, along with drug cartels, to operate with impunity. They also need to ensure that their children are educated and have options and opportunities for a future that is not at the mercy of gang life. Where the U.S. can aid and support such initiatives, we should do so. But the leadership must come from the governments of Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. “Our challenge is one of resources and the orderly implementation of our laws so that children and families can advance more smoothly through the immigration process to determine their final status. CBP is carrying out its responsibilities, but agencies next in line to respond to these cases, especially Health and Human Services (HHS) and our immigration courts, require more funds, professional personnel and temporary shelters so that children and families may advance through the legal process rather than remain stalled in the border region and overwhelming CBP capacity. “If we in the United States face any crisis, it is a crisis of the spirit and of political will. I am angry that Congress adjourned for the August recess without providing our agencies with the resources they need to do their jobs and carry out our laws. I am also frustrated and angry by last Friday's debate in the U.S. House of Representatives that distorted and demonized the situation on the border. That debate did not address the reality I witnessed or the needs and concerns I heard expressed. “The stories I heard from border officials, religious workers, and migrant individuals and families showed me that many of these families and children do require protection. We need to ensure that our agencies and federal workers have the funds to do their jobs and we need to care for these families and children in their moment of need. As Americans, I believe we can do no less.” THE FOLLOWING IS A SUMMARIZED ITINERARY OF REP. MCGOVERN’S TRIP TO THE BORDER: Sunday, August 3rd: Arrive in McAllen, TX; Cross the border at Hidalgo Bridge by walking over the pedestrian bridge to Reynosa, Mexico; Visit Senda de Vida, migrant shelter run by Protestant/Evangelical Churches; Return to USA by crossing the border by pedestrian bridge at Hidalgo Bridge; Dinner with human rights/migrant rights advocates: Eddie Canales, executive director, South Texas Human Rights Center, Corpus Cristi, TX and Rogelio Nuñez, executive director, Casa de Proyecto Libertad, Harlingen, TX; Monday, August 4th: Tour, review and receive operational briefing of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) Office of Field Operations (OFO) at Hidalgo Port of Entry, Hidalgo, TX; Receive operational briefing and overview of McAllen Border Patrol Station, McAllen, TX; Tour and review operations of processing center (CPC) and entry and departure area for apprehended individuals and families (Sally Port); Tour part of the border and various key crossing points for illegal entry and receive operational briefing with CBP Chief Patrol Agent Kevin Oaks (border line tour); Tour, review and receive operational briefing of new Centralized Processing Center that opened in mid-July that can house approximately 1,000 children while they await transfer to HHS (also known as the “Ursula Center” by its street name); Sacred Heart Church, Catholic Charities facility that provides basic services to recently arriving families with young children, McAllen, TX; Receive tour and briefing from Sister Norma Pimentel, executive director, Catholic Charities Rio Grande Valley (RGV); Talk with volunteers and migrant families receiving services; Depart McAllen, TX -30-30-30-
07.21.2014	U.S. Representative Jim McGovern joined members of the region’s Tibetan community to announce the introduction of HR 4851: The Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives. This bipartisan bill promotes access to Tibetan areas of China for U.S. officials, journalists, and average citizens. Currently, travel restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on Tibet are more severe than for any other provincial-level entity of China. “Our aim is to foster exchanges between America and Tibet,” said U.S. Representative McGovern. “Our goal is an open and accessible Tibet, where Americans can visit and learn from the wonders of the Tibetan Plateau – its natural beauty, its people, and its rich culture and religious heritage.” The proposed restrictions in HR 4851 are not reciprocal to the access that Chinese visitors generally enjoy in the U.S. As reciprocity is the basis of diplomacy, this bill renders inadmissible to the U.S. Chinese officials who design and implement these restrictions. “Restricted access to Tibet leaves Tibetans in virtual isolation from the world community, limiting international exchange and the ability to objectively assess the human rights situation there,” said U.S. Representative Jim McGovern. “I am grateful to the Tibetan community for all of their hard work and activism on this important issue.” Current restrictions have negative consequences for both U.S. citizens and Tibetans. After an October 2013 bus crash with Americans on board, U.S. consular officers faced prolonged delays in obtaining access to Tibet, hindering their ability to serve Americans in distress. ###
07.18.2014	I am deeply concerned about the safety and well-being of unaccompanied children and families from Central America who have arrived at our borders. I believe our existing laws, and our obligations under international humanitarian law, allow us to respond humanely and efficiently to these families and children. They allow us to provide safe haven to those who qualify for such protection, and a legal and humane response to those who may end up being returned to their home countries. At this moment, we don’t need extreme solutions or political posturing. What we do need is thoughtful leadership from Congress, the President and officials in these Central American nations. We need a thoughtful and compassionate response on the part of the American people. Our primary immigration problem is not one of refugee children – our primary problem is Speaker Boehner’s refusal to allow the House to consider the comprehensive measure passed over a year ago in the Senate. That bill enjoys broad support, liberal and conservative, among the American people.
07.11.2014	Today, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined Representatives Walter Jones and Barbara Lee to introduce a privileged resolution, H. Con. Res. 105, to direct the President to remove U.S. troops from Iraq within 30 days, or no later than the end of this year, except for those troops needed to protect U.S. diplomatic facilities and personnel. share: f t M. Speaker, I join today with Representatives Walter Jones and Barbara Lee to introduce a privileged resolution, H. Con. Res. 105, to direct the President to remove U.S. troops from Iraq within 30 days, or no later than the end of this year, except for those troops needed to protect U.S. diplomatic facilities and personnel. We did this for a simple reason. Congress has the responsibility to authorize the introduction of American troops where hostilities are imminent. In less than 3 weeks, in three separate deployments, the U.S. has sent at least 775 additional troops to Iraq. Now is the time for Congress to debate the merits of our military involvement in this latest Iraq conflict. Openly. Transparently. Do we approve of these deployments and any future escalation? If so, we should vote to authorize it. If we do not support it, then we should bring our troops back home. It’s that simple, Mr. Speaker. Congress has the responsibility to act on Iraq. Now. M. Speaker, we did not introduce this privileged resolution lightly. By doing so, we have started a process to hold a debate on our engagement in Iraq later this month. We are using the special procedures outlined under the War Powers Resolution. While this is an imperfect tool, it requires the House to take up this bill after 15 calendar days. Like most of my colleagues, I would prefer for this House to bring up a bill authorizing our engagement in Iraq. And nothing in this resolution inhibits such important legislation from being drafted and brought before this House for debate and a clean up-or-down vote. Frankly, I wish that were happening. But I have not heard that such authorization is even under discussion, let alone being prepared for debate. So, my colleagues and I are introducing this concurrent resolution because we strongly believe Congress has to step up to the plate and carry out its responsibilities when our servicemen and women are, once again, being sent into harm’s way. The time for that debate is now. Not when the first body bag comes home from Iraq. Not when the first U.S. airstrikes or bombs fall on Iraq. Not when we are embedded with Iraqi troops trying to take back an ISIS-held town. And, worst case scenario, not when our troops are shooting their way out of an overtaken Baghdad. Now, M. Speaker, is the time to debate our new engagement in Iraq. Before the heat of the moment. When we can weigh the pros and cons of supporting the Maliki government, or whatever government is cobbled together should Maliki be forced to step down. Now, before we are forced to take sides in a religious and sectarian war. Now, before the next addition of more troops takes place – and make no mistake, I firmly believe we will continue to send more troops and more military assets into this crisis. Now, M. Speaker, before we are forced to fire our first shots or drop our first bombs. Now, M. Speaker, is when the House should debate and vote on this very serious matter. For those who say it is too early, too premature for this debate, I respectfully disagree. The longer we put off carrying out our Constitutional responsibilities, the easier it becomes to just drift along. This is what Congress has done over and over – and it has to end, M. Speaker. Congress must speak, and Congress must act. This resolution, should it pass the House, would direct the President to bring our troops home from Iraq within 30 days – or should that pose security questions, no later than by the end of this year, nearly 6 months from now. It would NOT require those troops that have been deployed to safeguard the security of our diplomatic facilities and personnel from withdrawing. They could remain and carry out their crucial roles of protecting our civilian personnel on-the-ground in Iraq. This is why we need to take up this resolution later this month, debate our military engagement in this latest war in Iraq, and have a clean vote on this resolution, up-or-down, about whether we stay in Iraq or whether we bring our troops home. We owe this much to our troops and their families. We owe this much to the American people. And we owe at least this much to our own democracy and democratic institutions that require Congress to be the final arbiter on whether our troops are sent into hostilities abroad. I ask my colleagues to join Representative Jones and me as cosponsors of H. Con. Res. 105. I look forward to debating the merits of the Iraq war later this month and voting on whether our troops should stay or leave Iraq. U.S. Reps. Walter Jones (R-NC) and Barbara Lee (D-CA) are co-sponsors of the bill.
07.09.2014	We live in the richest country in the history of the world and yet 50 million people are hungry. 17 million of them are kids. We should be ashamed. We should ensure that everyone has access to healthy, nutritious food. That’s what SNAP, WIC and nutrition programs like the USDA Summer Food Service Program are all about. I want 100% of eligible children to be enrolled for Summer Meals. Please visit http://whyhunger.org/findfood to help me reach that goal.
06.24.2014	Ending hunger shouldn’t be a controversial thing. It shouldn’t be something that we ignore but, rather, a goal that we embrace. It’s something we can do if we muster the political will to do so. share: f t M. Speaker, ending hunger shouldn’t be a controversial thing. It shouldn’t be something that we ignore but, rather, a goal that we embrace. Unlike ending war, ending hunger is an achievable goal. It’s something we can do if we muster the political will to do so. Government – federal, state and local – will play a large role in ending hunger. The problem is too big – and too much a part of our basic values – for government institutions not to get involved. We have already created the programs that will help us end hunger – SNAP, WIC, and school meals, just to name a few. Many of these programs are underfunded and need to be responsibly updated for the twenty-first century. The truth is that these programs do real good in our towns and communities, and they are working effectively and efficiently. But government can’t do it alone. And that’s why I’m proud to stand with my friends in the anti-hunger community in support of their many efforts to end hunger. One such group doing fantastic work to end hunger now is the Food Research and Action Center, known as FRAC. FRAC is a tremendous organization, but it’s not the typical group that first comes to mind when people think about anti-hunger organizations. FRAC is not a food bank or a food pantry. Run by my good friend Jim Weill, FRAC works with hundreds of national, state and local nonprofit organizations, public agencies, corporations and labor organizations to address hunger, food insecurity and their root cause, poverty. FRAC conducts research to document the extent of hunger in America, its impact and effective solutions. It seeks improved federal, state and local public policies that will reduce hunger and undernutrition; monitors the implementation of laws and serves as a watchdog of programs. FRAC provides coordination, training, technical assistance and support on nutrition and anti-poverty issues to a nationwide network of advocates, service providers, food banks, program administrators and participants, and policymakers. And lastly, FRAC conducts public information campaigns to help promote changes in attitude and policies. FRAC helps frame the debate in Congress and state legislatures, educating elected officials and their staff; and they help implement anti-hunger programs at the local levels. FRAC does everything but literally hand food to hungry Americans. But the work they do has resulted in stronger programs and more eligible people receiving food assistance. M. Speaker, the federal anti-hunger safety net is excellent but it’s not perfect. It’s vast but it’s not comprehensive. FRAC works with policymakers and government officials to make these programs better, to ensure that no hungry person is left without food. FRAC was a leader in our fight to save the Heat and Eat program in the recently enacted Farm Bill. It has stood strong in the fight to ensure that everyone gets breakfast at school and food during the summer. And FRAC has also fought back on the anti-nutrition riders that House Republicans have attached to the Agriculture Appropriations bill. FRAC has stood with me from day one of my End Hunger Now campaign. Like me, they believe that hunger is a political condition; that it is solvable. And FRAC has been invaluable in this fight. They have organized countless numbers of food stamp challenges, including the two food stamp challenges that I participated in. And they work with important local anti-hunger groups like Project Bread and The Massachusetts Law Reform Institute, along with the Northeast Regional Anti-hunger Network. FRAC is one of the leaders in the fight to end hunger now. Every single person who works at FRAC is committed to a shared vision of a hunger-free America. Whether it’s working to expand the number of kids getting food during the summer or fighting against cuts to SNAP, the people who work for FRAC are doing everything they can to end hunger. I want to commend Jim Weill and his team at FRAC for everything they do. Not only are they true professionals, they care about their work. I want to thank everyone at FRAC for fighting to End Hunger Now. We wouldn’t have made it this far without the leadership and action from the good people at FRAC. I yield the balance of my time.
06.20.2014	The U.S. House of Representatives today, as part of the FY 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, passed an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) to establish a $3 million competitive grant pilot program to address the physical and mental health needs of service members and veterans with assistance from service dogs. share: f t The U.S. House of Representatives today, as part of the FY 2015 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, passed an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) to establish a $3 million competitive grant pilot program to address the physical and mental health needs of service members and veterans with assistance from service dogs. The McGovern amendment was passed by voice vote earlier this week. Final passage of the bill occurred today. Many of our service members and veterans return home from the battlefield suffering from post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI), blindness or impaired vision, the loss of a limb, paralysis, impaired mobility, loss of hearing, and other mental and physical disabilities. Sadly, too many also struggle with suicidal thoughts and the inability to reintegrate into the social framework of their families and communities. Working with a trained service dog is a promising form of therapy and assistance for these veterans and service members, one that has already been proven to help civilians who confront similar mental and physical disabilities. In December, Rep. McGovern held a briefing that brought together experts to look more closely at the impact service dogs have on veterans’ care. Medical experts, non-profits and veterans with trained service dogs participated, including the National Education for Assistance Dog Services, a non-profit, accredited service dog provider founded in 1976. Based in Massachusetts, NEADS has trained more than 1400 assistance dogs. Since 2005, it has been actively working to bring service dogs to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. “I have seen first-hand, including at NEADS, the positive impact these dogs can have on the lives of our veterans,” Rep. McGovern said. “Providing grant opportunities for groups professionally engaged in this field is critical to ensuring that our military and veterans receive the care they deserve.” The McGovern amendment was co-sponsored by Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC), Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and others. ###
06.19.2014	There are many fantastic anti-hunger organizations both in Washington DC and around this country. Share Our Strength is one of these organizations that does fantastic work. I’m proud of all of these groups that have stepped up to do what the federal government should be doing. I’m proud of everyone who is banding together to fight hunger, to join me in our attempts to End Hunger Now. share: f t M. Speaker, each week I come to this floor to talk about ways we can End Hunger Now. I have a simple premise – that hunger is a political condition. That we can end hunger now if we simply muster the political will to do so. Over the past year, I’ve defended the SNAP program, formerly known as food stamps, I’ve discussed the importance of nutritious school meals, and I’ve sung the praises of the WIC Program. The federal anti-hunger programs are amazing – they are effective and efficient and are preventing hunger from becoming worse than it already is. But the federal anti-hunger programs can’t do it alone, at least not the way they are currently structured. Despite what many critics claim, the federal anti-hunger programs are too meager and still don’t reach every hungry person in America. And they don’t target the root cause of hunger – poverty. Because the federal anti-hunger programs are insufficient in many ways, we’ve seen the rise of many non-profit anti-hunger organizations. The majority of these non-profits organizations are food pantries that distribute food to needy people. But there are other, innovative organizations that are doing amazing work. One such organization is Share Our Strength. Founded by my friends Billy and his sister Debbie Shore, Share Our Strength is an amazing organization that is fighting hunger both through federal and state policy and through programs that directly touch the hungry living in this country. Their flagship program is the No Child Hungry Campaign. They are working in states across this country to develop statewide plans to end childhood hunger in those participating states. They tailor these programs to fit each state and are focusing, through this program, on the scourge that is child hunger. Two more of their locally based programs are the Shopping Matters and Cooking Matters programs. The Shopping Matters Programs teaches low-income families how to spend their food dollars – whether it’s cash or from an anti-hunger program – wisely and how to purchase nutritious food with the limited money they have. The Cooking Matters program teaches these families how to cook food in a healthy way. These three programs show both how important it is to creatively attack the problem of hunger in America and highlight the ways the federal government is failing these low-income families by not doing more. Just look at the No Child Hungry Campaign. Share Our Strength is targeting states because the federal government hasn’t created a national anti-hunger strategy. Share Our Strength turned to governors because they are willing to do what Congress and the White House aren’t – develop a plan. That’s why I continue to call for a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition – to bring everyone together to develop a plan to End Hunger Now. Governors are doing this for kids, it’s time we do this for everyone. And look at the Shopping Matters Program and the Cooking Matters Program. These programs exist because Congress has cut the SNAP nutrition education program, necessitating a private, non-profit sector program to teach people how to shop for and cook nutritious food. Share Our Strength is also conducting outreach and education in different ways. They promote and host events at the national, state, and local levels that ways to combat hunger. These range from bake sales to dining out events to barbeque. And these aren’t just feel good events, these are events that come with teaching programs; programs that allow hosts to promote ways to fight hunger in ways that don’t seem so daunting. M. Speaker, there are many fantastic anti-hunger organizations both in Washington DC and around this country. Share Our Strength is one of these organizations that does fantastic work. I’m proud of all of these groups that have stepped up to do what the federal government should be doing. I’m proud of everyone who is banding together to fight hunger, to join me in our attempts to End Hunger Now. However, my goal is to put Share Our Strength, and these other groups, out of business – not because they aren’t a great organization but because they are no longer needed. But the only way to put these groups out of business is by ending hunger and the best way to do so is to increase wages, as well as expand SNAP and other nutrition programs. Until then, we need to ensure that no person in this country goes hungry. And until the federal anti-hunger programs reach everyone they need to in the best way possible, we’re going to need organizations like Share Our Strength to help vulnerable populations. Finally, M. Speaker, the failure of our government to make ending hunger more of a priority is appalling. To be indifferent – to blame poor people for being poor as some in this House have done is something that should make all of us ashamed. Republican leaders have attacked our anti-hunger programs and the White House, sadly, has been too timid. What we need is a war on poverty in this country, M. Speaker, not another war in Iraq. We can all do better. We can end hunger now. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.18.2014	This amendment establishes a $3 million competitive grants pilot program for qualified nonprofit organizations whose mission is to address the physical and mental health needs of veterans and service members with assistance from trained service dogs. This is a very modest amount of money when we consider the need of our veterans and the number of organizations around the country dedicated to addressing this need. share: f t M. Chairman. I want to thank Representatives Jones, Shea-Porter, Tsongas, Moore and Bordallo for joining me today in offering this amendment. They are leaders and champions in support of the benefits that service dogs provide to our service men and women, on and off the battlefield. This amendment establishes a $3 million competitive grants pilot program for qualified nonprofit organizations whose mission is to address the physical and mental health needs of veterans and service members with assistance from trained service dogs. This is a very modest amount of money when we consider the need of our veterans and the number of organizations around the country dedicated to addressing this need. Many of our service members return home from the battlefield suffering from traumatic brain injury, PTSD, blindness or impaired vision, the loss of a limb, paralysis, impaired mobility, loss of hearing, and other mental and physical disabilities. Too many struggle with suicidal thoughts or find themselves unable to reintegrate back into family life or their communities. Working with a trained service dog is a proven aid for these wounded warriors, the merits of which have been documented in decades of programs for civilians with similar mental and physical challenges. Providing grant opportunities for groups professionally engaged in this field is critical to ensuring that our military and veterans receive the care they deserve. In December, I held a briefing that brought together experts to look more closely at the impact service dogs have on veterans’ care. Medical experts, non-profits and veterans with trained service dogs participated – including retired Navy lieutenant Bradley Snyder, who lost his eyesight to an IED while serving in Afghanistan. He was accompanied by his Fidelco-trained guide dog, Gizzy. Fidelco is a non-profit guide dog training organization in Connecticut. Lt. Snyder has since gone on to compete in the 2012 London Paralympics Games, where he won two gold medals and one silver medal in swimming. John Moon and service dog Rainbow represented the National Education for Assistance Dog Services, a non-profit, accredited service dog provider founded in 1976. Based in Massachusetts, NEADS has trained more than 1400 assistance dogs. Since 2005, it has been actively working to bring service dogs to veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. Brett Simon is a veteran handler for police canines. Twice deployed to Iraq as an explosives detector canine handler, he described his work as a Dog Training Specialists at K-9s for Warriors Academy in Florida. We also heard from Rick Yount, founder of the Warrior-Canine Connection. The WCC Service Dog Training Therapy Program has operated at the National Intrepid Center of Excellence at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda since October 2011. I am very pleased to see that this bill continues to provide funds for this very special program. M. Chairman, there are scores of similar organizations across the nation. A modest grant pilot program will ensure that they reach even more of our wounded warriors with the assistance of a service dog. I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I reserve the balance of my time. M. Chairman – This amendment is budget neutral. It reduces the over $30 Billion Defense-Wide O&M account by $3 million and transfers those funds to Defense Health Programs to establish a competitive grants pilot program for NGOs connecting veterans and wounded warriors with trained service dogs.
06.13.2014	The United States cannot solve the problems of Iraq, or the consequences of a corrupt, authoritarian government that failed to govern on behalf of all the people of Iraq. share: f t The United States cannot solve the problems of Iraq, or the consequences of a corrupt, authoritarian government that failed to govern on behalf of all the people of Iraq. After demanding that U.S. forces leave the country, Prime Minister Maliki is now asking the United States to use military force to save his government. Ending the war in Iraq was not a mistake, but renewing it would be. I oppose military airstrikes and sending even more weapons. We've sent enough. It's time the Iraqi government acted like a government and for Iraqi forces to stand up and protect their people. Since the crisis in Iraq has implications for the entire region, it requires a multilateral diplomatic response to contain it. I call on President Obama to work with all nations in the region, the Arab League and the United Nations to address the political concerns threatening stability throughout the region. I also ask the President to place a priority on responding to the safety, protection and needs of Iraqi civilians placed in peril in the days and weeks to come.
06.12.2014	This bipartisan bill promotes access to Tibetan areas of China for U.S. officials, journalists, and average citizens. Currently, travel restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on Tibet are more severe than for any other provincial-level entity of China. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today announced that he has introduced HR 4851, The Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act, in the House of Representatives. This bipartisan bill promotes access to Tibetan areas of China for U.S. officials, journalists, and average citizens. Currently, travel restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on Tibet are more severe than for any other provincial-level entity of China. These restrictions have negative consequences for both U.S. citizens and Tibetans. After an October 2013 bus crash with Americans on board, U.S. consular officers faced prolonged delays in obtaining access to Tibet, hindering their ability to serve Americans in distress. These restrictions are not reciprocal to the access that Chinese visitors generally enjoy in the U.S. As reciprocity is the basis of diplomacy, this bill renders inadmissible to the U.S. Chinese officials who design and implement these restrictions. “Restricted access to Tibet leaves Tibetans in virtual isolation from the world community, limiting international exchange and the ability to objectively assess the human rights situation there,” Rep. McGovern said today. “I am grateful to the Tibetan community in Massachusetts and to the International Campaign for Tibet for all of their hard work and activism on this important issue.” “Our aim is not to limit exchange; it is to foster exchanges between America and Tibet, Rep. McGovern continued. “Our goal is an open and accessible Tibet, where Americans can visit and learn from the wonders of the Tibetan Plateau – its natural beauty, its people, and its rich culture and religious heritage.” U.S. Rep. Joe Pitts (R-PA) is the lead Republican co-sponsor of the bill. ###
06.09.2014	M. Speaker, Over and over again, House Republicans complain about federal spending, especially when it comes to our nation’s premier anti-hunger safety net program known as SNAP. They say the program is too big – that it’s bloated and it’s full of fraud, waste and abuse. These claims are patently false and have been dispelled over and over again. But there’s something else missing from the House Republican’s attacks on SNAP – a plan to responsibly shrink the program. Of course, House Republicans have many irresponsible plans to reduce SNAP spending – they want to make it harder and more costly for states to administer the program; they want to prevent people who have served their time in prison from being able to receive SNAP benefits; and they want to prevent those struggling with drug addiction from being able to receive SNAP benefits. In other words, they want to deny food to hungry people. Not one of these ideas are thoughtful or responsible. But, M. Speaker, there is a way to reduce SNAP spending in a responsible way that doesn’t take food away from hungry people. It’s simple, it’s non-controversial, and it makes sense. M. Speaker, the best way to do this is to raise the minimum wage. We know that hunger is a subset of poverty. If people earned enough money, they wouldn’t need help making ends meet – they wouldn’t need Medicaid, SNAP, or housing assistance. The federal minimum wage is currently $7.25 and hasn’t been raised in five years. The real value of today’s minimum wage is less than two-thirds of what it was in 1968. The result of such a low minimum wage is that many full-time workers live in poverty and have to rely on public assistance programs in order to make ends meet. I’m a cosponsor of the bill to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 an hour. Doing so wouldn’t just result in increased wages for American workers – although that’s the most important result. Raising the minimum wage to $10.10 would cut SNAP spending by $4.6 billion per year. $4.6 billion each year. That’s an amazing figure, M. Speaker, and that reduction in spending comes simply because people would earn enough money to buy their own food. Imagine that – by increasing people’s wages, we reduce the number of people relying on federal assistance programs. A recent study commissioned by the Center for American Progress documents this. They show that SNAP benefits decline 30 cents for every $1 increase in family earnings. This report goes on to show that a ten percent increase in the minimum wage reduces SNAP enrollment by between 2.4 percent and 3.2 percent and reduces SNAP spending by 1.9 percent. That means that 3.5 million Americans would be cut from SNAP not because of some arbitrary and hurtful policy but because they earn enough so they don’t need SNAP any longer. M. Speaker, this is just good, common sense. We should be doing more to bridge the income inequality gap. We should be doing everything we can to make sure people are earning as much as they can so we don’t need federal programs like SNAP or Medicaid. We shouldn’t be talking about a minimum wage, M. Speaker, we should be talking about a living wage. Just look at my hometown of Worcester, Massachusetts. The minimum wage is $8 an hour. But a living wage for two childless adults is just under $15 an hour and it rises to $18.30 for two adults with one child. While I support an increase in the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour, that’s not going to cut it for a family of three. And that’s why I’m encouraged by what the city of Seattle has done. They responsibly raised their minimum wage to $15 an hour, an increase phased in over the next six years. That is essentially the average national living wage. While I believe our effort to raise the federal minimum wage to $10.10 is a good one and is the right policy, I believe we need to think bigger and bolder. Seattle passed this increase with the blessing and approval from both labor and business groups. That is an amazing coalition. M. Speaker, raising the minimum wage is the right thing to do. It’s the moral thing to do. And it will actually have real impacts on the lives of poor families living in this country. It will cut SNAP spending by $4.6 billion per year. And 3.5 million people will be able to stop relying on SNAP simply because they are earning more in every paycheck they take home. This is a good, commonsense way to reduce SNAP spending and make people’s lives better. We should increase the minimum wage today. I yield back the balance of my time.
06.03.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today announced that he has introduced H.R. 4778, the bipartisan “Atomic Veterans Service Medal Act” in the House of Representatives. The bill would authorize the award of a military service medal to members of the Armed Forces who were exposed to ionizing radiation as a result of participation in the testing of nuclear weapons or under other circumstances. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today announced that he has introduced H.R. 4778, the bipartisan “Atomic Veterans Service Medal Act” in the House of Representatives. The bill would authorize the award of a military service medal to members of the Armed Forces who were exposed to ionizingradiation as a result of participation in the testing of nuclear weapons or under other circumstances. Between 1945 and 1962, about 225,000 members of our Armed Forces participated in hundreds of nuclear weapons tests. These GIs became known as the Atomic Veterans. They were placed in extremely dangerous areas and constantly exposed to radiation in performance of their duties. Sworn to secrecy, they could not even speak of their service. Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush recognized their valiant service, and acted to provide specialized care and compensation for their harrowing duty. “More than 75 percent of Atomic Veterans have passed away, never having received this recognition,” Rep. McGovern said. “It is past time for the Defense Department to honor with a medal the unique service carried out by the Atomic Veterans.” Congressman Walter Jones (NC) is the lead Republican co-sponsor of the bill in the Houses, and Congresswoman Madeleine Bordallo (Guam) is an original co-sponsor. ###
05.29.2014	Providing access to healthy school meals shouldn’t be controversial. We shouldn’t play politics with our kid’s health. share: f t Providing access to healthy school meals shouldn’t be controversial. We all want what’s best for our kids. Yet for decades we’ve seen school food products – both prepared meals and packaged snacks – fail to be as healthy and nutritious as possible. Combined with other factors, we’ve seen childhood obesity rates increase over that time. Not surprisingly, we’ve seen other health problems associated with obesity also increase. That began to change because of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, also known as the Child Nutrition Reauthorization bill, which reauthorizes our school meal programs as well as the WIC Program. The 2010 bill was especially important because it implemented new health and nutrition standards for schools, including issues like sodium, fruits and vegetables, and whole grains. Today, the House Appropriations Committee will vote on waiving not just these standards, but also basic, reasonable limits on calories, fat and trans fats. I was critical of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act not because of the change in nutritional guidelines for school meals but because the bill cut SNAP, formerly known as food stamps, in order to pay for these improvements. Sadly, we took food away from hungry people in order to improve the nutritional quality of school meals and increase school meal reimbursements. It was one of the more difficult votes I’ve taken as a Member of this House and I’m still angry that we robbed Peter to pay Paul instead of using better offsets that were available at the time. That being said, I strongly support the policies in the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act. And that’s why I’m dismayed at the attacks coming from Republicans in Congress. House and Senate Republicans are trying to roll back many of the guidelines in this important legislation. I understand the concerns. Some food service providers in my state tell me that these new standards are cost prohibitive, that they lead to increased food waste, that healthier products that meet these standards aren’t available, and that kids just don’t eat these new foods. But it’s important to recognize that USDA, has empirical data that shows the law is working. Not only that, the Government Accountability Office, or GAO, confirms that the law is working as intended and that participation will get better as kids get accustomed to the healthier food. Harvard recently documented significant increases in children’s consumption of fruits and vegetables because of federal school food standards. Data also shows that the new school meal nutrition standards do not cause schools to lose money after they’re initially established. Most importantly, USDA has the authority to work with schools, school districts, and states to address the issues that may affect participation rates. In other words, schools, school districts, and states can ask USDA for assistance in implementing these new standards at local levels, especially when kids may not be participating locally in the ways that USDA either intends or sees in other areas of the country. States and localities should take advantage of this flexibility before seeking permanent changes to the law. These school meal standards, along with the WIC food package, are science based. That means that politics was left out of the decision making process and left up to expert nutritionists. The reason why white potatoes, for example, were left out of the WIC program was because the experts at the Institute of Medicine said they do not provide the necessary nutritional impact as other foods eligible for the WIC program. That’s another way of saying white potatoes aren’t healthy enough for pregnant mothers and young children. Yet now the Republicans are trying to scrap these important nutrition standards. And they’re doing so under the false pretense that it’s what’s best for the kids. M. Speaker, look at the facts – House Republicans are supposedly acting on behalf of our kids while they tried to cut $40 billion from SNAP, while they tried to cut hundreds of millions of dollars from WIC, and while they continually ignore nutritional science by changing food packages to benefit specific industries? The truth is their position will do real harm to our nation’s kids. We can do better. We can and should work with USDA to implement this law in a smart way and not bow down to special interests. We shouldn’t play politics with our kid’s health just because some people don’t like the First Lady. There’s a time and place for politics. But lunch is not that time and the school cafeteria is not that place. I yield back the balance of my time.
05.27.2014	I continue to believe that maintaining any troop presence after 2014 should be specifically authorized by a vote in Congress. We are at war. And for far too long, Congress has failed in its most basic oversight and authorization responsibilities. share: f t “While I want to see all the troops come home by the end of the year, I welcome the President’s clarification regarding the mission and timetable for U.S. forces in Afghanistan. But I continue to believe that maintaining any troop presence after 2014 should be specifically authorized by a vote in Congress. We are at war. And for far too long, Congress has failed in its most basic oversight and authorization responsibilities. We have been bystanders instead of active participants. That has to change. We owe it to the American people – particularly our brave service members and their families – to debate and vote on this policy.” ###
05.26.2014	I welcome the news that Nabeel Rajab, President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, was released from prison today, after serving a two-year sentence for participating in public protests. share: f t May 25, 2014 "I welcome the news that Nabeel Rajab, President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, was released from prison today, after serving a two-year sentence for participating in public protests. I hope that the government of Bahrain will ensure that Mr. Rajab can travel freely and safely, both within the country and internationally, and that he will be allowed to continue his peaceful human rights work unimpeded. It is essential that civil society organizations are allowed to thrive in Bahrain and that the government of Bahrain heeds their voices. Leaders like Nabeel, call for peaceful actions and peaceful changes that would serve to protect the rights of all people in Bahrain and ensure stability within the country. By silencing these calls, the government of Bahrain opens the door to further violence and upheaval. Today, as I welcome Nabeel to liberty, I urge the government of Bahrain to release other members of the peaceful opposition and to involve them in a peaceful and constructive dialogue. Additionally, I urge my own government to call on our ally, Bahrain, to cease silencing peaceful opposition by jailing its leaders. If we fail to promote a fair and peaceful dialogue today, we will be looking at an inevitable surge of violence tomorrow.” Nabeel Rajab is a human rights and political activist in Bahrain. He is the President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and Director of the Gulf Center for Human Rights. Until today, he was serving a two-year prison sentence solely for peacefully exercising his right to freedom of expression and assembly by participating in protests against the government. Rep. McGovern had adopted Mr. Rajab as a prisoner of conscience in the the Defending Freedoms Project of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, which Rep. McGovern Co-Chairs in the U.S. House of Representatives.
05.22.2014	Yesterday, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern attempted to get a vote in the House of Representatives on his amendment regarding the war in Afghanistan. share: f t (May 22, 2014) - Yesterday, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern attempted to get a vote in the House of Representatives on his amendment regarding the war in Afghanistan. Below is his statement: M. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this rule, which fails to make in order the bipartisan McGovern/Jones/Smith/Garamendi/Lee amendment on Afghanistan. And I ask unanimous consent that the text of my amendment be printed in the record following my remarks. M. Speaker, ours is a very straightforward amendment. We worked very hard to make it thoughtful, bipartisan and germane. It reiterates the President’s commitment to complete the transition of U.S. combat and military and security operations to Afghan authorities by the end of this year; It requires the President to send to Congress by the end of March next year a determination that describes the mission, duration and level of troops of any post-2014 deployment of U.S. troops in Afghanistan; and The Congress then has 30 days to enact a joint resolution to approve the President’s determination. In the event that Congress votes against the President’s determination, then the remaining U.S. troops in Afghanistan would be withdrawn in a safe, orderly and expeditious manner – taking into consideration the security of U.S. diplomatic facilities and personnel. Last year, 305 members of this House voted in support of an amendment calling for just such a vote. But under this rule, those same Members will be denied the opportunity to make sure that the President presents clearly to Congress what he intends our troops to do in Afghanistan after the end of this year and for how long. And that Congress will respond either by approving the President’s plan or not. I don’t know how a vote on our amendment would turn out. But here’s what I do know. I know that the men and women who will be asked to serve, and perhaps to die, in Afghanistan deserve a debate and a vote. I know that the American people, who have spent billions and billions of dollars on this war deserve a debate and a vote And I know that this Congress has not only the right, but the RESPONSIBILITY to make our views known on this important issue. We are at war, M. Speaker. I know that some of my colleagues would rather not think about that. They would rather the issue of Afghanistan would just go away. But wishing and hoping doesn’t make it so. This is already the longest war in American history. The American people are tired of it. Our troops and their families have been stretched to their very limits. We have lost over 2,000 service members and spent almost $800 billion. What in the world is the Republican Leadership afraid of, M. Speaker? Last night, some of my Republican colleagues told me that they were refusing to make this amendment in order because they didn’t want to upset the President. Are you kidding me? Since when does this Leadership care one iota about upsetting the President? We can vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act over 50 times, we can have investigation after investigation after investigation about Benghazi, but we can’t take 10 minutes to debate on the War in Afghanistan? Give me a break. I know in their heart of hearts, many of my Republican colleagues agree with me. So I’m going to give them one more chance to do the right thing. M. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to amend the rule to include my amendment calling for a vote on keeping troops in Afghanistan after 2014 and that this amendment receive 10 minutes total debate like every other germane amendment made in order under the rule. ###
05.20.2014	Congratulations to Donna Lombardi, the Director of Nutrition for the Worcester Public Schools in my hometown of Worcester, Massachusetts, for receiving the Healthy Start Leadership Award. This award is being presented by the EOS Foundation, a Massachusetts-based foundation that is committed to expanding universal, free breakfast in the classroom across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. share: f t I rise today to congratulate Donna Lombardi, the Director of Nutrition for the Worcester Public Schools in my hometown of Worcester, Massachusetts, for receiving the Healthy Start Leadership Award. This award is being presented by the EOS Foundation, a Massachusetts-based foundation that is committed to expanding universal, free breakfast in the classroom across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. I want to thank Donna for her tireless work at the Worcester Public Schools. She is a leader in our efforts to provide quality, nutritious meals to all kids in our school systems. She recognizes the critical importance of not only providing nutritious meals to our kids but also ensuring that every single child in our school system starts off the day with a healthy, nutritious meal. The breakfast at the bell plan – where every child would receive a nutritious meal in the classroom after school starts – is an important part of the school day and should be implemented in every school across this country. There are two important reasons why universal, free breakfasts or breakfast at the bell is the right policy for every school to implement. First, we know that breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Kids physically and mentally develop better when they eat healthy meals – that’s a simple fact. But we also know that kids learn better on a full stomach than they do on empty ones. Second, universal breakfast served at the beginning of school ensures that every kid gets to eat and not just the ones who get to school early. It removes a stigma that adults may not recognize but that children feel. It’s that feeling that a child is different, that because they are poor they need to come in early to get food they don’t have at home. Donna Lombardi is a leader in breakfast at the bell. I’m proud of the fact that she is leading Worcester Public Schools in this direction and I’m proud to call her my friend. Unfortunately, not everyone is on the same page. Many school districts and employees are opposed to this idea. There are some who think that this is too onerous on schools – that it creates too much waste and that it isn’t a good use of time in the morning. I think those are shortsighted excuses and I’m dismayed that there are those who continue to cling to these notions that have been disproven time after time. We know what works and what doesn’t. And we know that breakfast at the bell is one of those policies and programs that works, and I want to congratulate the EOS Foundation for its hard work and dedication on this issue. Most importantly, I want to state that Donna Lombardi is an incredible individual with the passion and talent for providing nutritionally balanced meals to the children of Worcester. Sadly, as in every community in our country, thousands of children go to bed hungry in Worcester. Donna has made it her mission to feed them – to reach them first thing in the morning with a nutritious school breakfast, and throughout the day with school snacks, school lunch, afterschool meal programs, and summer meals too – school by school, classroom by classroom, child by child. The magnitude of her impact on the lives of thousands of children inspires me – it inspires all of us. I’m delighted to congratulate Donna on this much deserved recognition.
05.20.2014	At a ceremony in Worcester on May 14, 2014, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern honored four local students that have received appointments to United States Service Academies. A total of four students from the 2nd Congressional District have received service academy appointments to join the Class of 2018. share: f t WORCESTER, Mass. (May 19, 2014) – At a ceremony in Worcester on May 14, 2014, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern honored four local students that have received appointments to United States Service Academies. A total of four students from the 2nd Congressional District have received service academy appointments to join the Class of 2018. “Nominating young men and women from the Second Congressional District to attend U.S. Service Academies is one of my favorite things to do as Representative in Congress,” said U.S. Representative Jim McGovern. “I am awed by their willingness, at such a young age, to commit to serving our great Nation.” Mr. Owen Bradley: Mr. Bradley, a senior at Nipmuc Regional High School, received an appointment to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. He told Congressman McGovern, “To become a member of the armed services it takes a special kind of person; one who will selflessly dedicate themselves to a cause expecting nothing in return... I want to contribute to something larger than myself, to lead the best of the best.” Mr. Bradley is the son of Tammy and Police Chief Michael Bradley of Upton. Mr. Michael Burke: Mr. Burke, a senior at Abby Kelley Foster Charter School, received an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. He told Congressman McGovern that he is inspired by his grandfather’s, brother-in-law’s, and cousin’s service in the Armed Forces, and said that “the Naval Academy will allow me to achieve my goal of a college education and service to my country as an officer in the Marine Corps.” Mr. Burke is the son of Marybeth and Richard Burke of Worcester. Mr. Eric Danielsen: Mr. Danielsen, a senior at St. Mark’s School, will attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. He told Congressman McGovern that at West Point, he “will be pushed to grow more than I ever thought possible to improve.” Like his father (USMA ’84) and grandfather (USCGA ’54), he wants to serve so that he may help ensure future generations “enjoy the same opportunities that I have.” Mr. Burke is the son of Judy and David Danielsen of Westborough. Mr. Ryan Dix: Mr. Dix, a senior at St. John’s High School, will attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. He told Congressman McGovern that he is driven by a “desire to lead and serve the United States.” Mr. Dix is the son of Julie and Edward Dix of Paxton. Members of Congress are authorized by law to nominate candidates for appointment to four U.S. service academies. These schools are the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. The fifth service academy, the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, does not require a congressional nomination for appointment. In addition to requesting a nomination from a Member of Congress or another nominating official, an individual seeking appointment to a service academy must separately apply to the service academies to which he or she seeks to be appointed. These institutions prepare college-age Americans to be officers of the United States uniformed services. Upon graduation, service academy graduates are commissioned as officers in the active or reserve components of the military or merchant marine for a minimum of five years. For questions on the application process or to receive Congressman McGovern’s Academy Nomination Application packet, please visit www.McGovern.house.gov. ###
05.13.2014	United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey and Representatives Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen Lynch, Bill Keating, and Katherine Clark today announced $8.9 million in U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants to support projects at Massachusetts airports. share: f t (May 12, 2014) - United States Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward J. Markey and Representatives Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen Lynch, Bill Keating, and Katherine Clark today announced $8.9 million in U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants to support projects at Massachusetts airports. "These significant FAA grants will help Massachusetts' airports better serve our state's families and promote more business activity in the area," said Senator Warren. "These investments are a great example of how the federal government can be a strong partner for our cities and towns, by supporting key infrastructure projects across the Commonwealth." "Massachusetts' airports are hubs of economic activity, and these important FAA grants will help ensure they will continue to support local jobs and businesses," said Senator Markey. "Infrastructure investments like these are a great example of how federal, state and local partnerships benefit Massachusetts and our economy." "I strongly believe that federal investment in our regional aviation infrastructure is critically important. Airports in Massachusetts employ thousands of people and pump millions of dollars into the local economy each year. These grants from the Department of Transportation will help modernize our airports, make them safer, and keep them economically viable," said Congressman Neal. "Our airports are critical components of economic development," Congressman McGovern said. "I'm pleased that the federal government is continuing to support these important projects." "I am very pleased that Norwood Municipal Airport as well as a number of airports across the Commonwealth have been chosen for FAA grant funding for airport infrastructure improvement projects," said Congressman Lynch. "These grants provide critical funding that ensures our local airports will continue to serve the residents and businesses of the Commonwealth, while at the same time, have a positive economic impact on the surrounding cities and communities." "The four airports receiving funding in the Ninth Congressional District serve as a vital link to our tourism industry and commercial businesses, both of which are vital to the economy of the Southeastern coastal communities," said Congressman Keating. "I applaud the FAA's commitment to ensuring our municipal airports get the support they need and deserve." The following grants were awarded to Massachusetts airports by the FAA: Logan Airport: Rehabilitate Taxiway: $4.98M Westfield-Barnes Regional: Rehabilitate Taxiway: $270K Orange Municipal: Rehabilitate Taxiway: $198K Barnstable Municipal-Boardman/Polando Field: Acquire Snow Removal Equipment: $585K Provincetown Municipal: Install Apron Lighting: $270K Westover ARB/Metropolitan: Install Guidance Signs: $150K Gardner Municipal: Construct Snow Removal Equipment Building: $150K Southbridge Municipal: Construct Building [Terminal/Hangar]: $311K Norwood Memorial: Wildlife Hazard Assessments: $50K Norwood Memorial: Construct Taxiway: $100K Nantucket Memorial: Acquire Aircraft Rescue & Fire Fighting Vehicle: $800K Barnstable Municipal-Boardman/Polando Field: Install Guidance Signs: $150K Nantucket Memorial: Install Perimeter Fencing: $100K New Bedford Regional: Conduct Environmental Study [Includes Permits]: $800K ###
05.08.2014	Over 800,000 people of Rohingya ethnicity live in Burma, mostly in the state. Even though many Rohingyas have lived in the Rakhine for generations, the Burma Citizenship Law of 1982 has excluded them from approved ethnic groups, thereby rendering them stateless and vulnerable to exploitation, violence and abuse. I am very proud to rise in support of this resolution urging the Government of Burma to end the persecution of the Rohingya people and respect internationally recognized human rights for all ethnic and religious minority groups within Burma. share: f t (Wednesday, May 7, 2014) I thank the gentle____ for yielding me time. M. Speaker – I am very proud to rise in support of this resolution urging the Government of Burma to end the persecution of the Rohingya people and respect internationally recognized human rights for all ethnic and religious minority groups within Burma. I especially want to thank my good friend and colleague, the gentleman from Pennsylvania, Congressman Joe Pitts, for his leadership on this issue and for joining me in introducing this bipartisan resolution. Over 800,000 people of Rohingya ethnicity live in Burma, mostly in the state. Even though many Rohingyas have lived in the Rakhine for generations, the Burma Citizenship Law of 1982 has excluded them from approved ethnic groups, thereby rendering them stateless and vulnerable to exploitation, violence and abuse. While the Rohingya and other minorities in Burma have historically experienced severe discrimination, there has been a dramatic increase in discrimination and violence against them in the past two years. Attacks in June and July of 2012 resulted in the deaths of at least 57 Muslims and the destruction of 1,336 Rohingya homes; on October 23, 2012, at least 70 Rohingyas were killed and their township was destroyed. Further, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights reported possessing credible evidence of the deaths of at least 48 Rohingyas in January of this year, and human rights groups reported mass arrests and arbitrary detention of Rohingya in the aftermath of this violence. In addition, other Muslim minorities have also suffered from violent attacks, and many have lost their lives and property in the last year and a half. Such violence against ethnic Muslim populations, including the Rohingya, is part of a larger troubling pattern of violence against ethnic and religious minorities in Burma. The government of Burma remains apathetic to the plight of the Rohingya population and has failed to properly investigate the major events of anti-Rohingya violence. Instead, both the Rakhine State and Central Government continue to impose explicitly racist policies that seek to control the everyday lives of the Rohingya: authorities require Rohingya to obtain official permission for marriages and have often singled out Rohingya for forced labor and arbitrary arrests; the government of Burma has forcefully relocated Rohingya into relief camps, where they lack decent shelter, access to clean water, food, sanitation, health care, the ability to support themselves, or basic education for their children; the Rohingya are the sole targets of the two-child policy and are the subjects to severe restrictions of movement. Further, as evidenced by the latest census in Burma, the Burmese government continues to deny the Rohingyas their right for self-identification, sending a clear message that the Rohingya are outsiders who have no place in Burma. Today, approximately 140,000 Rohingya are internally displaced and hundreds of thousands have fled to neighboring countries by boats; many have died at sea. Those who remain in the country live in dire poverty and deprivation. Some relief used to come from humanitarian organizations, like Doctors Without Borders, but even that aid is no longer available. The Government of Burma expelled Doctors Without Borders in March, allegedly after the group cared for the victims of a violent assault on a Rohingya villange, which the government denies ever happened. Increasingly severe restrictions and violent attacks on other humanitarian aid groups have forced the majority of them to flee the Rakhine State, and the Rohingya now remain with no one and nowhere to turn for help and healthcare. Every day, more and more people die of causes that could be preventable or treatable, if humanitarian groups had a chance to help. According to a March 14th article in The New York Times, nearly 750,0000 people, the majority of them Rohingya, have been deprived of medical services since the Burmese government banned the operations of Doctors Without Borders. According to the article, during the first two weeks of March alone about 150 of those most vulnerable and in need of care died, including 20 pregnant women facing life-threatening deliveries. When Doctors Without Borders were able to work in Rakhine, they sent approximately 400 emergency cases every month to local hospitals, but according to the World Health Organization, less than 20 people received referrals by the government for emergency care in March. Such a difference suggests that Rohingya in desperate need of emergency care are left to suffer or die. In light of these disturbing events, it is important that the House speak with one voice today and call on the government of Burma to end all forms of persecution and discrimination of the Rohingya people and ensure respect for internationally recognized human rights for all ethnic and religious minority groups within Burma. The Burmese government needs to recognize the Rohingya as an ethnic group indigenous to Burma, and work with the Rohingya to resolve their citizenship status. And finally, the U.S. government needs to make the removal of state-sanctioned discriminatory policies a priority in their engagement with the government of Burma. Let me be clear: the situation is dire and rapidly deteriorating. Multiple recognized independent human rights NGOs, as well as the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Burma, have stated that the series of actions directed at the Rohingyas in Burma could amount to crimes against humanity. Further, a recent report by the U.S. NGO United to End Genocide states that nowhere in the world are there more precursors to genocide than in Burma right now. In the past few weeks, we have all taken time to remember and commemorate the victims of the Armenian Genocide, the Holocaust, and the genocide in Rwanda. We saw the same disturbing signs in other moments of history and we know what the consequences are of not paying attention. Showing support for this bill is one step you can take today toward fulfilling the solemn pledge of “never again.” I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this bill. I ask unanimous consent to insert materials into the Record – Insert: “Ban on Doctors’ Group Imperils Muslim Minority in Myanmar,” New York Times, March 14, 2014
05.08.2014	Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission co-chairmen James McGovern (D-MA) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) welcomed the announcement by Secretary Kerry that the United States will be offering military and law enforcement assistance support to the Nigerian government with the aim of finding and securing the release of nearly 300 missing Nigerian schoolgirls. share: f t James P. McGovern, Co-Chairman | Frank R. Wolf, Co-Chairman Washington, DC (May 7, 2014) — Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission co-chairmen James McGovern (D-MA) and Frank Wolf (R-VA) welcomed the announcement by Secretary Kerry that the United States will be offering military and law enforcement assistance support to the Nigerian government with the aim of finding and securing the release of the nearly 300 Nigerian schoolgirls that have been missing since April 14, after reportedly being abducted by Boko Haram, a U.S.-designated terrorist organization affiliated with al Qaeda. Congressmen McGovern and Wolf expressed concern that in the weeks leading up to this action, critical time has been lost in rescuing these girls — some of whom have reportedly been taken across Nigeria’s borders to be sold into forced marriage. The co-chairmen expressed outrage at this human rights atrocity, which has affected hundreds of innocent Nigerian girls and their families. This incident is the latest in the series of brutal attacks and actions taken by Boko Haram against innocent Nigerian citizens, including an attack this week, in which at least 300 people were reportedly killed in a northeastern Nigerian town. The co-chairmen believe the U.S. should continue to take every action to neutralize Boko Haram’s terrorist activities and bring security to the people of Nigeria. The bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission was established in the U.S. House of Representatives to educate Members of Congress on human rights issues and advocate on behalf of human rights defenders world-wide. ###
05.07.2014	"I’m sick and tired of poor people being demonized. I’m sick and tired of their struggle being belittled. We’re here to represent all people – including those struggling in poverty." - U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern share: f t May 7, 2014 M. Speaker, I’ve come to this floor once a week during the 113th Congress to talk about hunger – specifically how we can End Hunger Now if we simply muster the political will to do so. Technically identified as Food Insecure by the Department of Agriculture, the nearly 50 million hungry people who live in this country are hungry not because they are lazy or don’t want to work but because they don’t earn enough to be able to put food on their table. Simply, they don’t know where their next meal will come from. Now, this has not been a particularly kind Congress to those who struggle with hunger. We’ve seen nearly $20 billion cut from our nation’s pre-eminent anti-hunger program known as SNAP. SNAP is a lifeline for the 46 million Americans who rely on it to have something to eat each day. Yet this Congress decided that Americans who live at or below the poverty line can simply absorb massive cuts to SNAP. Sadly, Republicans and some Democrats joined together to cut a benefit that was already meager and didn’t last through the month even before these cuts took effect. These cuts are bad and hurtful, but just as hurtful is how these Americans were described and depicted on this floor during the debate about cuts to SNAP. During the debate on the farm bill, one Republican Member came to the floor to justify cuts to SNAP as a way to prevent murders, rapists and pedophiles from getting a government benefit. Poor people have been routinely chastised as “those people”, as part of a culture of dependency. I’m sick and tired of poor people being demonized. I’m sick and tired of their struggle being belittled. We’re here to represent all people – including those struggling in poverty. Unfortunately, the insults continue. For the most part, we try to keep campaign rhetoric out of the debate on the House floor. However, today I want to highlight some rhetoric that is even more vile than even some of the language used on this floor during the SNAP cut debates. A few weeks ago, a Republican candidate for United States Senate in South Dakota actually equated SNAP recipients to wild animals. That’s right. We’re now at a point where it’s apparently okay for political candidates to denigrate our fellow citizens by calling them wild animals. Dr. Annette Bosworth shared a viral image on her Facebook page that said the following – quote: “The food stamp program is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. They proudly report that they distribute free meals and food stamps to over 46 million people on an annual basis. Meanwhile, the National Park Service, run by the U.S. Department of the Interior, asks us ‘please do not feed the animals.’ Their stated reason for this policy being that … the animals will grow dependent on the handouts, and then they will never learn to take care of themselves,” the post continues. “This concludes today’s lesson. Any questions?” end quote. M. Speaker, I was taught to love my neighbor. I was taught to care about people and to strive to make everyone’s life better. And what is being treated as political dialogue violates those teachings and my core beliefs in humanity. We can all do better. Some of us may need a hand up in order to get by, but that doesn’t mean that they are lesser people for it. They deserve our respect – and they deserve our help while they are struggling. Dr. Bosworth should apologize to the 46 million of her fellow Americans who need SNAP to put food on their tables. She should apologize to the nearly 50 million of her fellow Americans who struggle with hunger and don’t know where their next meal will come from. And Republicans should repudiate her disgusting remarks. I’m an optimist. I believe we can end hunger and I believe we can end poverty in America if we just make the commitment to do so. But hurtful rhetoric like this simply divides us and does nothing to help us achieve this worthy goal of ending hunger now. I yield back the balance of my time.
05.05.2014	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) met today with two members of the Russian band and activist group Pussy Riot to discuss ongoing human rights violations in Russia. share: f t (May 5, 2014) - Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) met today with two members of the Russian band and activist group Pussy Riot, Maria Alyokhina (left) and Nadezhda Tolokonnikova (right). During the meeting, Ms. Alyokhina and Ms. Tolokonnikova shared with Rep. McGovern their concerns about the ongoing human rights violations in Russia and presented him with a list of Russian officials who played an active role in arrests and prosecution of the Bolotnaya Square protesters. They also emphasized the importance of expanding the Magnitsky list to include more names of Russian violators of human rights. Both women were imprisoned in 2012 for protesting against the Russian government and have since been vocal critics on a variety of human rights issues, such as political prisoners, corruption, freedom of speech, and prison system. ###
05.02.2014	"We need to hear from those who struggle with poverty, not just the think tank gurus. We need to hear what is working and what is not working on the ground in our communities," - U.S. Rep. McGovern share: f t May 1, 2014 Mr. Speaker, yesterday, Chairman Paul Ryan held a hearing on poverty – a timely and necessary conversation. But the problem is that not one single person living in poverty was a witness at that hearing. And that’s really a shame. There are plenty of men and women like Bobby or Tiana who are witnesses to hunger who should be invited here to describe what it’s like to be hungry or cold because there isn’t enough money to heat a house or buy enough food to eat. They could describe for Mr. Ryan how difficult it is to stretch a SNAP allotment for the entire month and most importantly, how hard it is to make ends meet with a job that pays in inadequate wage. We need to hear from those who struggle with poverty, not just the think tank gurus. We need to hear what is working and what is not working on the ground in our communities. Chairman Ryan’s hearing missed the mark and when it comes to issues involving poverty and hunger, Mr. Speaker. This majority that runs this House, doesn’t have a clue. I urge us to listen to people who struggle in poverty. Perhaps if we did, we wouldn’t be so cruel to poor people. I yield back.
04.24.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced that the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) has selected the Yiddish Book Center, Amherst, Mass, as a recipient of a National Medal for Museum and Library Service. The National Medal is the nation’s highest honor given to museums and libraries for service to the community. share: f t AMHERST, Mass. (April 24, 2014) – U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced that theInstitute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) has selected the Yiddish Book Center, Amherst, Mass, as a recipient of a National Medal for Museum and Library Service. The National Medal is the nation’s highest honor given to museums and libraries for service to the community. Winners of the National Medal were selected from nationwide Congressional nominations of institutions that demonstrate innovative approaches to public service, exceeding the expected levels of community outreach. The Yiddish Book Center was one of only ten award recipients nationwide and the only award in Massachusetts. “I am proud to congratulate The Yiddish Book Center on this honor. Located right in our backyard, the Center is one of our nation’s greatest treasures,” said U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern. “The work they do day-in and day-out to preserve this important part of our collective culture is invaluable, and I’m proud to have them in my district.” The Yiddish Book Center was founded in 1980 by its current president, Aaron Lansky, then a 24 year-old graduate student of Yiddish literature. In the course of his studies Lansky realized that untold number of irreplaceable Yiddish books – the primary tangible legacy of 1,000 years of Jewish life in Eastern Europe – were being discarded by American-born Jews unable to read the language of their own Yiddish-speaking grandparents. Some thirty years later the organization has collected more than a million volumes. It has established and strengthened Yiddish holdings at 600 university and research libraries around the world, and has posted the full texts of 12,000 titles online, making Yiddish one of the most accessible literatures in the world. “We are thrilled to accept this award, not only as a recognition of the Yiddish Book Center, but far more important as a tribute to the enduring nature of Yiddish itself,” said Aaron Lansky, founder and president of the Yiddish Book Center. The National Medal will be presented by First Lady Michelle Obama at the White House on May 8. After the ceremony, StoryCorps – a national nonprofit dedicated to recording, preserving, and sharing the stories of Americans – will visit each institution to document stories from the communities about the winning institutions. “Congratulations to the 2014 winners of the National Medal for Museum and Library Service. From programs that foster passion for science, literature and cultural heritage, to critical 21st century skills training for improved educational outcomes and workforce readiness, the services and programs of these institutions truly do make a difference,” said Susan H. Hildreth, director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services. “We thank each of this year’s medal recipients for their innovation and their dedication to serving their communities.” This year, IMLS celebrates the 20th anniversary of the National Medal for Museum and Library Service. For the past two decades, the National Medal has honored outstanding institutions that make significant and exceptional contributions to their communities. Including 2014 winners, 142 institutions have received this honor. For a complete list of 2014 recipients and to learn more about the National Medal winners, please visit www.imls.gov/medals. About the Yiddish Book Center The Yiddish Book Center is a non-profit organization working to tell the whole Jewish story by rescuing, translating and disseminating Yiddish books and presenting innovative educational programs that broaden understanding of modern Jewish identity. Yiddishbookcenter.org To learn more, visit http://www.yiddishbookcenter.org/ and follow them on Facebook and Twitter. About the Institute of Museum and Library Services The Institute of Museum and Library Services is the primary source of federal support for the nation’s 123,000 libraries and 17,500 museums. Our mission is to inspire libraries and museums to advance innovation, lifelong learning, and cultural and civic engagement. Our grant making, policy development, and research help libraries and museums deliver valuable services that make it possible for communities and individuals to thrive. To learn more, visit http://www.imls.gov and follow them on Facebook and Twitter. ###
04.23.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Matt Erskine to announce a $1 million U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant for the Worcester Technology and Idea Development Exchange (TIDE) and to tour the future home of the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute (MassDiGI) New Venture Center (NVC) at Becker College. share: f t (Worcester, Mass.) U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Matt Erskine to announce a $1 million U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant for the Worcester Technology and Idea Development Exchange (TIDE) and to tour the future home of the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute (MassDiGI) New Venture Center (NVC) at Becker College. McGovern joined Erskine for an event at the former Worcester Telegram & Gazette (T&G) facility to announce a $1 million grant to New Garden Park, Inc., to establish the Worcester Technology and Idea Development Exchange in the T&G building. The planned technology incubator and accelerator is expected to create more than 100 jobs by supporting a central location for entrepreneurs to explore and start a business in growing industries. "The T&G Building project is a key component of Worcester's downtown revitalization," said U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern. "The Exchange will be an investment in the future of our economy, one with enormous potential. I'm so pleased that this critical federal funding is being announced today, and I commend Deputy Assistant Secretary Erskine and the entire EDA team for their commitment to this effort." “Supporting conditions conducive for entrepreneurship is crucial for both creating jobs and remaining competitive in today’s global economy,” said U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development Matt Erskine. “The EDA grant announced today will provide entrepreneurs and start-ups in Worcester with the space and technical assistance they need to grow and thrive.” In 2011, the Worcester Business Development Corporation (WBDC), acquired the 135,000 sq. ft. building from the Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspaper, which had operated out of the facility since the early 20th century. The WBDC purchased the building as part of an effort to revitalize a key property within Worcester’s Central Business District. The TIDE Center will work closely with local college to identify potential startup businesses to locate in the downtown Worcester building and, ideally, move to a permanent location in the City. "This is a great day for our downtown," said Craig Blais, President & CEO of the WBDC. "New Garden Park hopes that the redevelopment of 20 Franklin Street will continue to build upon the entrepreneurial spirit that is so strong in our community. We are thankful to have such great partners in the EDA to help us implement this vision for Downtown Worcester." Later in the day, McGovern and Erskine visited the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute (MassDiGI) New Venture Center (NVC) at Becker College. In 2013, Becker College was awarded a $1.4 million EDA grant to help create the NVC, which will function as an on-campus business assistance center located in the College’s historic property at 80 William Street, Worcester. Becker College matched the EDA grant to fund the $2.8 million project. “We are honored to have Congressman McGovern and Secretary Erskine at Becker College today. EDA has been the key partner in Becker’s efforts, through MassDiGI, to build the entrepreneurial ecosystem on campus, in Worcester and across the state. EDA’s support of our New Ventures Center project will expand our capacity to provide year-round business assistance to high tech student-entrepreneurs from around the region,” said Becker College President Robert E. Johnson, Ph.D. The NVC will focus on game development and interactive media student-entrepreneurs from Worcester and other Massachusetts Gateway Cities. Over the life of the project, the NVC is expected to create 430 jobs. By providing technical assistance, training, mentoring and other support and educational services, selected student-entrepreneurs will be better positioned to successfully launch products and companies while still in college and upon graduation. ###
04.15.2014	We are shocked and saddened by the news of the murder of Carlos Mejia Orellana, journalist and marketing director of Radio Progreso in Honduras. share: f t STATEMENT BY U.S. REPRESENTATIVES JAMES P. McGOVERN (MA), SAM FARR (CA) AND JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY (IL) ON THE MURDER IN HONDURAS OF CARLOS MEJIA ORELLANA WITH RADIO PROGRESO “We are shocked and saddened by the news of the murder of Carlos Mejia Orellana, journalist and marketing director of Radio Progreso in Honduras. We extend our deepest condolences to his family members, friends and colleagues. Our thoughts and prayers are with them in this difficult time. “We are very familiar with the important work of Radio Progreso, a community-based radio station that is a work of the Jesuits of the Central American Province. We note that the Director of Radio Progreso, Father Ismael “Melo” Moreno, testified before the U.S. Congress at the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and described the constant death threats and attacks perpetrated with impunity against journalists in Honduras, including against Radio Progreso, its employees and its research arm, ERIC. Given the level of threats and violence, including assassination, targeted against journalists, the media and freedom of expression in Honduras, we are dismayed that the Government of Honduras has failed to implement protective measures for the employees of Radio Progreso, as called for by the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights when, on four separate occasions over the past five years, it issued precautionary measures on behalf of 16 staff members, including Carlos Mejia Orellana, of Radio Progreso and ERIC. We are further troubled by news reports that the police had announced the murder was carried out by someone close to Sr. Mejia Orellana before any investigation had yet begun. We call upon the Honduran authorities to immediately implement protective measures for Radio Progreso and ERIC employees and to carry out a thorough investigation of the murder of Carlos Mejia Orellana to determine both material and intellectual authors of this heinous act and to bring them to justice in a timely manner.”
04.08.2014	I thank the gentleman from Georgia for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself 8 minutes. M. Speaker, budgets are moral documents. These annual documents are really statements of who we are as political parties and groups. They represent our values. They tell a story about what we believe in and how we would govern. I had thought I’d come here today to say that this budget before us – the Ryan Budget – is simply bad or that it’s misguided. M. Speaker, it’s much worse than that. This is an awful budget. It takes our country in a fundamentally wrong direction. It seems as though every year, we shake our heads, wondering how the latest Ryan budget could possibly get worse than the previous year’s effort. And yet, time after time, the Ryan budget manages to pull it off. This budget is cruel, but sadly it is not unusual. Year after year, the Ryan budget does more and more damage to the social fabric of our nation. Year after year, it puts the wishes of the rich ahead of the needs of the poor. Year after year, it sacrifices the reality of desperately needed investments at the altar of theoretical deficit reduction. Let’s look at the details. The Ryan budget includes deep cuts. How deep? $791 billion below the sequester number. $791 billion below sequester! That’s amazing, M. Speaker. Now, I voted against sequester because of the damage it would – and did – inflict on our economy. And this budget would actually cut nearly a trillion dollars on top of the sequester. I thought we wanted to end the sequester, not make choices that are even worse. But that’s not the end of the story. According to one estimate, sixty-nine percent of the Ryan budget cuts come from low-income programs. It would shred the safety net. The programs that help keep millions of Americans out of poverty, that help provide millions of Americans with healthcare, that help provide millions of children with school meals and early childhood education receive the lion’s share of the cuts. In fact, according to the same estimate, $3.3 trillion of the Ryan budget’s $4.8 trillion non-defense cuts come from low-income safety net programs like Medicaid, SNAP, school breakfast and lunch programs, HeadStart, the Supplemental Security Income program, the Earned Income Tax Credit, and Child Tax Credits. Sixty-nine percent of the total non-defense cuts come from these life-changing – indeed, life-SAVING -- programs. The Ryan budget is successful at one thing – it deepens the divide between the rich and the poor in this country. It successfully makes life harder for those who are already struggling to make ends meet. If you are hungry in America, you would see food benefits cut by $137 billion. If you are a middle class college student in America, hopefully you can win the lottery or have a rich uncle, because Pell Grants would be cut by $125 billion by freezing the maximum grant and cutting eligibility. If you are low-income working mother in America who gets healthcare through Medicaid, you would join at least 40 million Americans who become uninsured by 2024 after the Ryan budget cuts at least $2.7 trillion from Medicaid. And if you are a middle class family with kids in America, just trying to get by in this sluggish economy, you would see your taxes go up by about $2000 a year. But if you’re fortunate enough to be very rich in America? Well, time to pop the champagne, because you make out like a bandit. The oil companies keep their tax breaks. Businesses can keep putting money in overseas accounts just to avoid paying taxes here in America. And if you’re a millionaire? Get ready for a big, fat check from Uncle Sam. That’s because anyone making more than $1 million a year will see a tax cut of at least $200,000. On top of these disastrous policies, the Ryan budget once again goes after seniors. This version once again ends the Medicare guarantee and re-opens the Medicare prescription drug donut hole. As a result of these cuts, seniors will see their traditional Medicare premiums soar by an average of 50 percent. As the AARP says, quote, “removing the Medicare guarantee of affordable health coverage for older Americans by implementing a premium support system and asking seniors and future retirees to pay more is not the right direction” end quote. These policies have real world ramifications. Last week, an incredibly strong and courageous group of women called the Witnesses to Hunger returned to Capitol Hill to talk about their struggles as low-income, working women trying to make ends meet. It takes guts to come here to Capitol Hill to tell your story and challenge Members of Congress to do better. And that’s exactly what these impressive women did. They told their stories. The talked about their struggles. And they challenged us to do more to help them so they don’t fall back into poverty. These women – and the millions of Americans like them who work hard every day but don’t earn enough to make ends meet, who are having to choose between rent, food and electricity – these women and their children aren’t line items in our budget. They aren’t statistics in our reports. They are people. People who just want to have a roof over their heads, food on their tables, and an education system that will help their children learn and succeed. They want to go college and not have to worry about losing their scholarships just because they are a single mother and need to work a night job to feed their child. These women, and the millions of Americans just like them, would be hurt – devastated – by the Ryan budget. I’m glad there are people who are able to make a lot of money in this country. But we shouldn’t penalize those who are struggling. M. Speaker, we should be providing ladders of opportunity to help people get out of poverty and move into the middle class. When people need a helping hand, we should provide that assistance, whether it’s a job training program, early childhood education, healthcare, or something as simple and basic as food. These aren’t handouts; they’re hand ups. They’re investments in our future. And we should be providing opportunities that strengthen our communities and the middle class through job creation, higher education, and advancing research and innovation. This is a great country. We’ve done great things and we will continue to do great things. But we’ve begun to think small. We don’t tackle big problems anymore and we use deficit reductions as an excuse. We should want to end hunger; end poverty; and create opportunities for all our citizens. The Ryan budget would set us back. It would do real damage to millions and millions of real Americans – our neighbors, our friends, our fellow parishioners. As Pope Francis has written in his Papal Exhortation, QUOTE “I ask God to give us more politicians capable of sincere and effective dialogue aimed at healing the deepest roots – and not simply the appearances – of the evils in our world! Politics, though often denigrated, remains a lofty vocation and one of the highest forms of charity, inasmuch as it seeks the common good.” END QUOTE M. Speaker, the Ryan budget fails that basic test. It does not seek the common good. And it deserves to be defeated. I reserve the balance of my time.
04.04.2014	Surviving the Peace – Landmines, Mortars and Munitions 25 Years of Humanitarian Mine Action Mines Advisory Group (MAG) America Wednesday, April 2, 2014 4:00 PM – 7:30 PM Photo Exhibit: Russell Rotunda Thank you everyone for coming to this important exhibit. It’s so important that we remember the tremendous toll that landmines inflict on innocent civilians around the world every day of the year – and of the courageous work being done to remove landmines from the earth and provide aid and support to the survivors of landmine explosions. I especially want to thank Richard Eisendorf with MAG-International, Senators Patrick Leahy and Bob Casey – and our many distinguished guests who are gathered here today for this special photo exhibit. I want to Congratulate and express my appreciation on the 25th Anniversary of the Mines Advisory Group – 25 years of helping people around the world recover their lives and livelihoods through the painstaking work of demining. So much has been accomplished over the past two decades in ending the use of landmines and removing these weapons where they hide in the ground. And it’s due to the work of so many nations, international agencies, and NGOs like MAG. Just look at Cambodia. In 1996, over 4300 people were killed or wounded by landmines. In 2012, that number has been reduced to 185. Cambodians can now see a future where no one will be killed or maimed by landmines. But there is still much to do. More than 70 countries remain contaminated. More than 4,000 people each year, including children, are injured or killed. Landmines are buried in farmer’s fields, forests, roads, and pathways. They are indiscriminate. Their casualties are mainly innocent civilians who are going about their daily lives. Two of the most contaminated countries in the world, where landmines are still actively used in conflict by insurgent groups, are Afghanistan and Colombia – they are #1 and #2, the worst in the world. MAG is active in both of these countries. I am grateful for their work in Colombia, where the continuing conflict means more landmines and explosive devices are planted every day – wounding soldiers, campesinos, women and children. There is hope for a peace agreement by the end of this year – but all parties should stop using landmines now – and work together to begin clearing the land of these terrible and indiscriminate weapons. I am very proud that the United States is the largest contributor to demining efforts, landmine education, and aid to victims around the world. Over the past decade, we have provided over $2 billion to countries and NGOs for these important humanitarian missions. I will be even more proud when the United States finally signs the treaty banning landmines, a treaty that we’ve been mainly complying with for nearly two decades. I believe we can comply fully with the terms of the treaty. It’s really just a question of political. There is no issue that can’t be resolved. And I look forward to working with this Administration on those issues and to the day when the U.S. joins the international treaty.
03.28.2014	“I strongly condemn the brutal attacks on the Armenian-populated town of Kessab by al-Qaeda affiliated armed bands. I am deeply saddened by the news of 80 lost lives and remain concerned for the fate of those who were forced to flee the area. This massacre underscores the particular vulnerability of Christian and other minorities in Syria and is another example of the atrociousness and endless cruelty of the Syrian conflict. Further, I am deeply concerned by the reports that these attacks allegedly originated in Turkey and demand that the United States and international community conduct a thorough and critical investigation of these claims.”
03.18.2014	Tuesday, March 18, 2014 – Governor Deval Patrick today announced steps to preserve Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits for approximately 163,000 households in Massachusetts and avoid the loss of approximately $142 million in SNAP benefits set to be cut under the recently enacted federal Farm Bill. "Government's role is to help people help themselves, and these steps are necessary to help our most vulnerable residents and families meet their most basic needs," said Governor Patrick. Under the plan, the Department of Transitional Assistance (DTA) will partner with the Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD) to provide at least $20 in heating assistance to eligible families through the H-EAT program, which makes them eligible for an increase of $80 in monthly SNAP benefits to help families pay for food. DHCD will invest approximately $3 million to support the continuation of the program and leverage the additional SNAP benefits for these families. The investment will also help maintain economic stability for families and businesses in Massachusetts, as each SNAP dollar spent generates approximately $2 in economic activity for the state, according to the USDA. “Reversing the cuts from the Farm Bill is a major step in helping Massachusetts families work toward economic stability,” said Secretary of Health and Human Services John Polanowicz. “Any cut in benefit, no matter the size, has a real impact on low-income families, and this funding supports a program that makes a difference every day.” “This program continues to be a valuable resource for residents across the Commonwealth,” said Aaron Gornstein, Undersecretary of the Department of Housing and Community Development. “As the Administrator of the LIHEAP program, DHCD is pleased to join our sister agency in preventing cuts to the food stamp benefits that our neediest families have been receiving. The heating assistance, known as the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, or LIHEAP, is federal assistance provided to the state to help low-income families defray heating costs. "I'm so proud of Governor Patrick and his Administration for stepping up and providing these resources to help some of our most vulnerable neighbors," said Congressman Jim McGovern. "Despite what Speaker Boehner said last week (ironically, on the same day he invited Pope Francis to address a joint session of Congress), this effort is not 'fraud' or 'cheating' -- it's an effort by states like Massachusetts to provide food to hungry families." The Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (formerly Food Stamps) is a fully federally-funded food benefit program administered by the Massachusetts Department of Transitional Assistance on behalf of the United States Department of Agriculture. The Department helps nearly one in seven residents throughout the Commonwealth meet their most basic needs. ###
03.14.2014	U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, joined by Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, today sent a letter to President Obama asking for the Administration to add names of Russian officials responsible for human rights abuses to the Magnitsky list. share: f t U.S. Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Chairman of the Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee, joined by Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, today sent a letter to President Obama asking for the Administration to add names of Russian officials responsible for human rights abuses to the Magnitsky list. The Magnitsky list was established in 2012, when the President signed the Russia and Moldova Jackson-Vanik Repeal and Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act into law, and was named after Russian lawyer, Sergei Magnitsky who was imprisoned by Russian authorities after he began investigating a large fraud scheme that involved Russian tax officials. Magnitsky was thrown into the notorious Butyrka prison where he was held for over 11 months without trial and was beaten, tortured and denied much needed medical treatment and subsequently died in custody as a result of his harsh treatment. Statement by Ros-Lehtinen: “Putin and his officials have grown increasingly brazen with their attempts to silence dissent and with their human rights abuses against those in Russia who try to shine a light on the corruption of the state, yet the Administration has hesitated to take action despite having received several names to be added to the Magnitsky list. No names have been added to this list since April 2013, and that sends a message to the Kremlin that it can continue to violate the rights of the Russian people and the United States will sit by and take no action. I thank Jim and I are happy to join forces in urging the President to use the full intent and scope of the Magnitsky list to promote human rights in Russia, and we hope he will add more names to the list.” Statement by McGovern: “The Magnitsky Act can be an important tool in the effort to promote human rights – but only if the Administration uses it,” Rep. McGovern said. “I am proud to join with my colleague Ileana Ros-Lehtinen in this bipartisan effort, and I look forward to the Administration’s response.” To read the letter, please click here. For the list of names Reps. Ros-Lehtinen and McGovern submitted, please click here.
03.14.2014	It is very encouraging to see the strong participation by the Salvadoran people in last Sunday's presidential elections. share: f t “It is very encouraging to see the strong participation by the Salvadoran people in last Sunday’s presidential elections. I applaud their commitment to strengthening and consolidating El Salvador’s democratic future. I particularly want to commend the Supreme Electoral Council (Tribunal Supremo Electoral) for carrying out and overseeing these elections, which all international observers have judged as orderly, peaceful, free and fair. Given how close the vote was, I also commend the TSE for its professional approach towards confirming the results of the elections and calling upon all parties to demonstrate their own patience, calm and professionalism while awaiting the final results. The TSE has announced the results of its review of the tally sheets, and we are awaiting its decision on the appeal that has been filed. Along with the statements made by the U.S. Department of State, I pledge my own commitment to working with the next President of El Salvador to improve the lives and well-being of all the Salvadoran people.”
02.20.2014	Congressman Jim McGovern, along with officials from the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation(DCR), the Massachusetts Department of Transportation(DOT), the Federal Highway Administration, the City of Worcester, the College of the Holy Cross, and Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor today announced several major elements of a coordinated effort to develop Worcester’s Blackstone Gateway Park and Visitor Center. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern, along with officials from the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation(DCR), the Massachusetts Department of Transportation(DOT), the Federal Highway Administration, the City of Worcester, the College of the Holy Cross, and Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor today announced several major elements of a coordinated effort to develop Worcester’s Blackstone Gateway Park and Visitor Center. “The Blackstone Gateway Visitor Center, including the Park, bikeways, new sidewalks, and the Quinsigamond Bike Spur, are a signature project for the City of Worcester and Central Massachusetts,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. “The tireless dedication of the Quinsigamond Village residents has made this project a reality, and I know that it will serve as a catalyst for future economic development in this vital gateway to the city.” Massachuchetts DCR and Massachusetts DOT have signed a Memorandum of Understanding which will lead to the construction of the Blackstone Gateway Visitor Center, a full service, multi-use facility, featuring a welcoming area, historic and cultural exhibits, a theater, restroom facilities, an adjacent passive recreation lawn, and office, classroom and meeting space. The Visitor Center will also serve as the new home for the Massachusetts DCR Central Regional Office. It is estimated the Visitor Center and related projects will bring in nearly $14 million in initial investment from federal, state, local, and non-profits partners, including an immediate $5.5 million in federal funding. The Visitor Center will be adjacent to an enhanced Blackstone Gateway Park and Middle River Park. The surrounding park will provide recreational and educational opportunities by way of trails, boardwalks, observational platforms, interpretive signage and kiosks, and paths with connectivity to the Blackstone River Bikeway. Other stakeholders in the project include the Worcester Historical Museum, Massachusetts Audubon Society, and Quinsigamond Village residents. The Visitor Center will be staffed by a newly hired Project Coordinator, Devon Kurtz, hired in partnership with the College of the Holy Cross and the Blackstone Heritage Corridor. A Worcester resident, Mr. Kurtz's background includes 6 years as the Director of Education at the Higgins Armory Museum, and nearly 10 years as the Education Coordinator at Old Sturbridge Village. He will work hand in hand with Holy Cross, as well as the National Park Service, City and State officials and local residents and businesses to shepherd design and development of the Visitor Center, the adjacent Park, river access at the headwaters of the Blackstone River, Blackstone River Bike path developments and related activity in the area. Also announced on Thursday by the Massachusetts Department of Transportation was a new $1.5 million federally funded Quinsigamond Village Bikeway, which will connect the project to the Blackstone River Bikeway. The Quinsigamond Village Bikeway is expected to begin construction later in 2014. The City of Worcester will also begin construction of new sidewalks on McKeon Road with $1.17 million in federal funding, ensuring easier pedestrian access between College Hill, Quinsigamond Village, and Worcester’s Blackstone Gateway Park. STAKEHOLDER QUOTES: “The Blackstone Visitor Center, Park, and Bikeway projects reflect years of hard work and dedication. The City is thrilled to be a partner in this exciting and important effort," said City Manager Edward Augustus. “These projects will enhance the on-going economic revitalization efforts in the Quinsigamond Village neighborhood while also serving as a destination point for Worcester residents and visitors from all over the region,” said City Manager Ed Augustus. “The Blackstone Gateway Visitor Center is a true testament to the partnerships and collaboration that has been in the making for many years. The infrastructure upgrades in the vicinity of the center and adjacent park will become a destination for those seeking leisure and recreational activities in our community. I am excited that so many people have been able to come together for the purpose of providing additional opportunities to the residents and visitors of our city,” said Mayor Joe Petty. “The Worcester Blackstone Valley Gateway Visitor Center and Blackstone Valley Gateway Park will serve to highlight all that Worcester and the Blackstone River Valley have to offer to our visitors,” stated Senator Michael O. Moore (D-Millbury). “More importantly, the Center and Gateway Park will continue to show the world what we continue to know, that Worcester and the Blackstone River Valley is a great place to visit, live and work.” “This Visitor Center truly showcases how successful partnerships in our city across all levels of government, the community, and our local colleges can be. Today is a great day for the City and a great day for Quinsig Village,” said State Representative Dan Donahue. “This project demonstrations ways in which forming partnerships can produce benefits for the local economy, for cultural enrichment, and to promote walking and cycling as healthy transportation choices,” said Frank DePaola, MassDOT’s Highway Administrator. “Through Congressman McGovern’s strong leadership, this project represents the best of the combination of those efforts.” “I thank Governor Patrick, and the MassDot and DCR teams for their long-term commitment to Worcester and the Central Massachusetts region,” said Tim Murray, President/CEO of the Worcester Chamber of Commerce. “As Lieutenant Governor, I worked closely with these teams and Congressman McGovern to make this vital public-private partnership a reality. As President and CEO of Chamber, I know that this will improve a dynamic gateway into the city.” “We are truly grateful for the dedication of so many to forge a remarkable partnership that will design and build this long planned-for center. It promises to be not only a gateway to the Blackstone Valley and to Worcester, but also the centerpiece for the revitalization of Quinsigamond Village. The synergy of the visitor center, the Blackstone Bikeway, and the Blackstone Gateway and Middle River Parks will create a tremendous beehive of activity and learning for residents, students, and visitors alike,” said Donna Williams, chair of the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor. “We look forward to the development and growth of this exciting initiative—and are delighted to play an active and engaged role,” said John Anderson, interim director of government and community relations at Holy Cross. “Our own students, faculty, and staff will benefit from new programming and resources. Further, all colleges in the area, as well as visitors from throughout the region and nation will learn more about an important part of Worcester’s proud heritage.” -30-
02.18.2014	U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN LEADS HOUSE MEMBERS IN URGING TIME FOR STATES AFFECTED BY LIHEAP/SNAP CUTS U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today joined with U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) in leading 98 members of the House and Senate in a letter to U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack. The letter urges Secretary Vilsack to give states several months to comply with the severe cuts to SNAP that were contained in the recently enacted farm bill. “We urge you to implement the 'Heat and Eat' policy change this fall when states receive their LIHEAP block grants so that our agencies have adequate time to comply with their new LIHEAP allotments,” the letter says. “Furthermore, this will allow the Heat and Eat states the necessary time to provide outreach and support for many seniors, children, and individuals living with a disability who will be impacted by this policy change.” “Thousands of low-income families are going to see their food budgets reduced as a result of the Farm Bill,” Rep. McGovern said. “At the very least, we should give these families and the states enough time to adjust and plan.” The text of the letter is below, and a PDF of the signed letter is attached. February 18th, 2014 The Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary United States Department of Agriculture1400 Independence Ave, S.W. Washington, DC 20250 Dear Mr. Secretary, We urge you to use your authority to implement the new Farm Bill regulations for the 'Heat and Eat' program this fall when states receive their Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) block grants. This will allow state agencies time to develop policies to address the change and gives states maximum flexibility to comply with their new LIHEAP allotment. Our states need time to adjust their policies to accommodate this drastic cut and roll out the changes seamlessly to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) participants. The Farm Bill conference agreement, which was signed into law last week, increases the cost to states that use LIHEAP payments to qualify low-income participants for SNAP. Currently, the District of Columbia and 14 states (California, Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Montana, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin) implement LIHEAP heat and eat policies. This state option has helped to alleviate some of the untenable 'heat or eat' choices that households face. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that this change will reduce benefits for about 850,000 low-income households in our states by an average of $90 a month. However, we have heard from our hunger advocates that the impact to certain states will be far greater. We urge you to implement the 'Heat and Eat' policy change this fall when states receive their LIHEAP block grants so that our agencies have adequate time to comply with their new LIHEAP allotments. Furthermore, this will allow the Heat and Eat states the necessary time to provide outreach and support for many seniors, children, and individuals living with a disability who will be impacted by this policy change. Sincerely, Jim McGovern
01.30.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today led a bipartisan effort of nearly 125 members of the U.S. House in calling on President Obama to “prioritize the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)” in the President’s 2015 budget proposal “by including no less than $4.7 billion for this program that provides critical support to our most vulnerable citizens. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN LEADS BIPARTISAN CALL TO PRESIDENT FOR FULL LIHEAP FUNDING IN 2015 BUDGET Also Applauds Release to Massachusetts of $18 Million in 2014 Funding U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today led a bipartisan effort of nearly 125 members of the U.S. House in calling on President Obama to “prioritize the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)” in the President’s 2015 budget proposal “by including no less than $4.7 billion for this program that provides critical support to our most vulnerable citizens.” LIHEAP is the main federal program that helps low-income households and seniors with their energy bills, and federal funding has declined in recent years. As a result, nearly 1.5 million vulnerable households have lost access to LIHEAP assistance. Rep. McGovern also welcomed the release to Massachusetts of $18 million in remaining 2014 LIHEAP assistance, announced today by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. “This has been a very difficult winter, and many families have already used up their energy allowance,” Rep. McGovern said. “LIHEAP helps some of our most vulnerable neighbors to stay warm and safe during the cold winter months.” The text of the bipartisan letter is below. President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, In light of record breaking and life threatening cold weather across the nation this winter, we are writing to request that you prioritize the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in your Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 budget proposal by including no less than $4.7 billion for this program that provides critical support to our most vulnerable citizens. LIHEAP is the main federal program that helps low-income households and seniors with their energy bills, providing vital assistance during both the cold winter and hot summer months. LIHEAP households are among the most vulnerable in the country. According to the National Energy Assistance Director’s Association (NEADA), more than 90 percent of LIHEAP recipients have at least one household member who is a child, elderly, or disabled, and 20 percent of households contain at least one veteran. For these households, LIHEAP funding has been a lifeline during challenging economic times. Access to affordable home energy is not a luxury – it is a matter of health and safety. We understand the ongoing discretionary budget challenges. However, we are deeply concerned that funding for LIHEAP has declined more than 30 percent in recent years. Moreover, the number of households eligible for assistance continues to exceed available funding. Sequestration has further exacerbated these funding challenges. According to NEADA, the total number of households receiving LIHEAP assistance has declined by 17 percent between FY 2010 and FY 2013, from about 8.1 million to 6.7 million. Nearly 1.5 million vulnerable households have lost access to critical LIHEAP assistance and struggle to pay for the basic necessity of home energy in addition to other essentials like food and medicine. Funding has declined, yet energy costs have remained high, reducing the purchasing power of LIHEAP assistance. Recipients have seen their average LIHEAP grant reduced by more than $100 since 2010, from $520 in FY 2010 to $406 in FY 2013. Meanwhile, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that average winter home heating costs will rise six percent to $977 per household this winter. The average LIHEAP grant is estimated to cover less than half of the average home heating costs for a household this winter, meaning that many low-income families and seniors will have fewer resources available to meet other basic needs. As you finalize your FY 2015 budget request, we ask that you take into account the great need for LIHEAP. We urge you to reprioritize this program within your FY 2015 budget and restore funding to this program to a level no less than $4.7 billion. Thank you for your attention to and consideration of this important request.
01.15.2014	The Massachusetts Delegation today announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded Massachusetts an Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program for Crime Victim grant for $8,355,648 to cover expenses as a result of the Boston Marathon bombing on April 15, 2013. share: f t The Massachusetts Delegation today announced that the Department of Justice (DOJ) has awarded Massachusetts an Antiterrorism and Emergency Assistance Program for Crime Victim grant for $8,355,648 to cover expenses as a result of the Boston Marathon bombing on April 15, 2013. Following the tragedy, the delegation pledged full support from the federal government and encouraged the Administration to assist in Massachusetts’ recovery. “After the terrorist attack at last year’s Boston Marathon, many local organizations provided critical support to those affected by the tragedy, demonstrating the Commonwealth’s strength, spirit, and resilience,”said Senator Warren. “I’m pleased and grateful that the DOJ has awarded this major federal grant to Massachusetts to support our agencies’ work, and to ensure that those affected by the attack have the resources they need as they continue to recover.” "Tragedy became triumph of the human spirit in the actions of responders to the horrific attack at the Boston Marathon last year,” said Senator Markey. “But sometimes, even our bravest heroes need help. Thanks to this important funding from DOJ, the courageous and committed organizations who ran toward those who were hurt will continue to help victims, families and loved ones receive they help and healing they need and deserve." "The people of Massachusetts are strong, proud and resilient. Since Patriots Day, the bombs that were meant to terrorize a community have only brought us closer together. No senseless act of cowardice and evil will ever stop us from being who we are. From the Berkshires to Boylston Street, those who call the Commonwealth home know how to overcome adversity. Today's significant grant from DOJ will allow us to continue the process of recovery, and help make the 2014 Boston Marathon the biggest and best yet," said Congressman Neal. “In the aftermath of the Marathon bombing, the entire world saw the very best of Massachusetts,” Congressman McGovern said. “I’m pleased that the DOJ has provided this funding to demonstrate the federal government’s commitment to helping our communities to heal.” “I join with my Massachusetts colleagues in voicing strong support for this $8.3 million Department of Justice grant that will reimburse those organizations that acted swiftly and compassionately to help the victims of last year’s Boston Marathon bombing,” said Congressman Tierney. “In the aftermath of the attack the outpouring of support from the community was inspiring,” said Congressman Capuano. “I applaud the DOJ for providing this funding to continue and strengthen the long process of healing after this terrible tragedy.” “Boston is a close-knit community. All of us know someone who was directly or indirectly affected by the Boston Marathon Bombing,” said Congressman Lynch. “I am pleased to hear that the Department of Justice has awarded this grant to the Commonwealth. It will go a long way to ensuring that the victims, families of the victims, witnesses and first responders receive the help that they need as they continue to recover and heal from the tragedy of that day. We need to continue to make sure that all those affected by the bombings receive the assistance and services that they require.” “On April 15th, and in the days, weeks and months after, organizations from across the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and nearby states joined in the efforts to support the thousands of people impacted by this tragedy,” Congresswoman Tsongas said. “Their actions were nothing short of heroic and this funding represents a gesture of appreciation from a grateful nation.” "The lives of so many were changed by the Marathon bombings, and today's grant is only a small token of appreciation for those who continue to work around the clock to help survivors and their families work through the emotional and physical trauma of that day," said Congressman Keating. "With the long road ahead, every bit of assistance is crucial, and I am confident that our delegation will remain committed to keeping our communities, and particularly those impacted by last year's attack, healthy, safe, and most of all- Boston strong." “Following the tragedy of the Boston Marathon bombing, many organizations and individuals immediately stood up and offered their services to help the victims of the bombing in whatever way possible,” said Congressman Kennedy. “Whether through providing medical treatment, legal counsel or other assistance, this grant will ensure that those organizations are supported and can continue their efforts to aid those affected by the bombings. I am impressed and inspired by the work of these organizations and congratulate them on receiving these funds.” “The bravery and acts of kindness that took place after the tragedy in Boston reminded us that heroism is fundamentality American, and that Boston is unbreakably strong,” said Congresswoman Clark. “I deeply appreciate the administration’s support of the local organizations and agencies that came to the aid of the victims, families and first responders of that tragic day.” The Massachusetts Office of Victim Assistance will use the grant to reimburse organizations and agencies that provided “crisis response and consequence management services to support the impact of the incident on the victims, witnesses, and first responders involved in the tragedy.”
01.07.2014	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today joined Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT) and others in urging President Obama to restore funding for LIHEAP, the federal program that helps vulnerable Americans pay their energy bills. Citing a 30 percent decline in funding, the letter urges the President to fund the program in his upcoming budget proposal at no less than $4.7 billion. Also signing the letter (below) are Reps. Peter King (R-NY), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Chris Gibson (R-NY), and Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA). Dear Mr. President, In light of record breaking and life threatening cold weather across the nation this winter, we are writing to request that you prioritize LIHEAP in your Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 budget proposal by including no less than $4.7 billion for this program that provides critical support to our most vulnerable citizens. LIHEAP is the main federal program that helps vulnerable Americans with their energy bills, providing vital assistance during both the cold winter and hot summer months. LIHEAP households are among the most vulnerable in the country. According to the National Energy Assistance Director’s Association (NEADA), more than 90 percent of LIHEAP recipients have at least one household member who is a child, elderly, or disabled, and 20 percent of households contain at least one veteran. For these households, LIHEAP funding has been a lifeline during challenging economic times. Access to affordable home energy is not a luxury – it is a matter of health and safety. We understand the ongoing discretionary budget challenges. However, we are deeply concerned that funding for LIHEAP has declined more than 30 percent in recent years. Moreover, the number of households eligible for assistance continues to exceed available funding. Sequestration has further exacerbated these funding challenges. According to NEADA, the total number of households receiving LIHEAP assistance has declined by 17 percent between FY 2010 and FY 2013, from about 8.1 million to 6.7 million. Nearly 1.5 million vulnerable households have lost access to critical LIHEAP assistance and struggle to pay for the basic necessity of home energy in addition to other essentials like food and medicine. Funding has declined, yet energy costs have remained high, reducing the purchasing power of LIHEAP assistance. Recipients have seen their average LIHEAP grant reduced by more than $100 since 2010, from $520 in FY 2010 to $406 in FY 2013. Meanwhile, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) projects that average winter home heating costs will rise six percent to $977 per household this winter. The average LIHEAP grant is estimated to cover less than half of the average home heating costs for a household this winter, meaning that many low-income families and seniors will have fewer resources available to meet other basic needs. As you finalize your FY 2015 budget request, we ask that you take into account the great need for LIHEAP. We urge you to reprioritize this program within your FY 2015 budget and restore funding to this program to a level no less than $4.7 billion. Thank you for your attention to and consideration of this important request.
12.23.2013	STATEMENT BY U.S. REPRESENTATIVE JIM MCGOVERN ON TODAY’S STATE DEPARTMENT REPORT ON THE MAGNITSKY LAW McGovern Was Original House Sponsor of the Legislation “The lack of new names on the list is very disappointing. I am looking forward to the day when the Magnitsky law will become obsolete because the climate of impunity no longer prevails inside Russia. But today is not that day. The Magnitsky Act is the law of the United States, and I will do everything I can to ensure that it is implemented properly and in the spirit in which it was written. I expect to receive a full briefing from the Administration on this issue soon. “Without a doubt, some of the world’s most urgent problems require that Russia and the United States work together and build long-lasting and productive partnerships. I welcome and support Russia’s cooperation on resolving the Syrian chemical weapons crisis and the Iran nuclear crisis. I welcome the clemency President Putin has granted for imprisoned activists from Greenpeace and the Pussy Riot rock band members, as well as for Mikhail Khodorkovsky. These are positive actions, which I hope will also be expanded to resolving Syria’s humanitarian crisis. But a true partnership cannot and should not be built on a shaky foundation of corruption and condoning human rights violations.”
12.20.2013	Last week, U.S. Representatives McGovern, Royce, and Keating sent a letter to Secretary of State Kerry urging the U.S. to lead the way on the humanitarian crisis in Syria. In the letter, the three Members of Congress wrote, "We strongly urge you to use all available U.S. leverage to seek Russian and other international cooperation to establish a humanitarian framework which will allow international humanitarian agencies to provide their services in the besieged areas. If the United States and Russia mobilizes their political will and determination to press for urgent attention on humanitarian access, we are confident that a framework could be developed that would have an immediate on alleviating the suffering on the ground in Syria." The full text of the letter is below. December 20, 2013 The Honorable John F. Kerry Secretary of State U.S. Department of State 2201 C Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20520 Dear Mr. Secretary: As we approach the third year of the Syria crisis, a major humanitarian catastrophe is intensifying. As the U.N. Security Council remains deadlocked on constructive action, the humanitarian crisis in Syria is escalating and the long winter months threaten more civilian deaths. While bringing about peace, democracy and the protection of minority rights in Syria is the ultimate solution to this conflict, the humanitarian crisis demands urgent U.S. leadership that we believe can be immediately successful and save lives. The devastating victimization and suffering of the Syrian civilian population tragically continues. From March 2011 to August 2013, approximately 11,420 children have been directly killed by the conflict, according to the Oxford Research Group’s November 2013 report. Health and humanitarian workers within Syria have faced targeted attacks, arrest, detention, torture and extrajudicial killings. Syrian civilians and those risking their lives to help them need the same high profile and urgent effort the Administration demonstrated during its negotiations with the Russian Federation and Bashar al-Assad’s regime on the framework to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons. We believe that the same direct and high profile U.S.-Russian collaboration could persuade the Assad regime to accept a framework under which humanitarian access could be guaranteed so that life-saving aid, including medicine, food, water and shelter materials could be delivered to the suffering population. As Dr. Åke Sellström, who heads the U.N. Weapons Inspection team in Syria pointed out recently, if the international community can gain his access to even the most sensitive parts of Syria, it should also be able to do the same for urgently needed humanitarian aid. We strongly urge you to use all available U.S. leverage to seek Russian and other international cooperation to establish a humanitarian framework which will allow international humanitarian agencies to provide their services in the besieged areas. If the United States and Russia mobilizes their political will and determination to press for urgent attention on humanitarian access, we are confident that a framework could be developed that would have an immediate on alleviating the suffering on the ground in Syria. If the United States and the Russian Federation can collaborate in a direct effort to bring humanitarian aid and relief to all the suffering people inside Syria, it would bode well for attempts to end the Syrian crisis, while bolstering the important yet often contentious U.S.-Russia relationship. We are now entering the holiday season, a holy time for many peoples in the region and a time of reflection for all. Now is the time to make an all out effort to further solidify the great American tradition of effective humanitarian aid. Sincerely, EDWARD R. ROYCE JAMES P. McGOVERN WILLIAM R. KEATING Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
12.18.2013	The Procurador's action against the Mayor of Bogota, and the response inside Colombia, indicate the need for reflection on how prepared Colombian society is – including its highest authorities – to expand the political landscape and welcome the political participation of previously excluded sectors, including those of former combatants. share: f t “The Procurador’s action against the Mayor of Bogota, and the response inside Colombia, indicate the need for reflection on how prepared Colombian society is – including its highest authorities – to expand the political landscape and welcome the political participation of previously excluded sectors, including those of former combatants. These are all Colombian internal affairs, in my view, but nations and individuals who are friends of Colombia and who support the peace process are watching this debate closely to see how such actions might affect the inclusion of new voices and social sectors in Colombia’s democracy and political life.”
12.11.2013	House Democrats today are urging Speaker Boehner not to adjourn the House for the year without bringing up an extension of federal unemployment insurance, which is scheduled to expire Dec. 28, immediately cutting of all jobless aid to 1.3 million Americans. share: f t House Democrats today are urging Speaker Boehner not to adjourn the House for the year without bringing up an extension of federal unemployment insurance, which is scheduled to expire Dec. 28, immediately cutting of all jobless aid to 1.3 million Americans. An additional 1.9 million Americans who are estimated to be eligible for federal unemployment insurance in the first half of 2014 would lose access to that coverage. For a state-by-state breakdown of the effects, click here. One hundred and sixty-six House Democrats today are sending the following letter to Speaker Boehner urging him to immediately bring up an extension of federal unemployment insurance and to not adjourn the House for the year until he does: December 11, 2013 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives H232, U.S. Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: We write to urge you to address the looming expiration of unemployment benefits for millions of Americans before adjourning Congress for the remainder of the year. Without swift Congressional action, 1.3 million jobless workers will have their benefits cut off on December 28th, and nearly another 1.9 million will lose their unemployment benefits over the first half of next year. This would not only be a devastating blow for millions of Americans who are already struggling, but it would also hurt our economy. The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program is scheduled to immediately and completely stop at the end of 2013, during the holiday season, with the last payable week ending on December 28th. All current EUC beneficiaries will lose their benefits, and individuals exhausting their limited state unemployment benefits will no longer be eligible for EUC benefits in 2014. This cutoff will affect over 3 million Americans over the next six months, and thereby also negatively impact our economic growth. In fact, recent estimates indicate that the expiration of the EUC program would cost our economy 310,000 jobs and drain roughly four-tenths of a percentage point from first-quarter economic growth. While unemployment benefits remain a critical lifeline for dislocated workers and their families, these benefits have recently been significantly scaled back. According to the Congressional Research Service, the total amount of weeks of unemployment benefits has dropped by more than a third across the states, and by more than 50 percent in some states, compared to two years ago. Furthermore, the recipients have seen their weekly benefit payment provided by the EUC program cut under sequestration. Even with the progress our economy has seen since the depths of the recession, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs today than when the recession started six years ago. Additionally, approximately 4 million Americans are considered long-term unemployed, and have been looking for work for more than six months. Now is certainly not the time to further decimate vital federal assistance to workers who have lost their job through no fault of their own and who must actively seek work in order to be eligible for unemployment benefits. We therefore strongly urge you to immediately bring up a one-year extension of the current EUC program. Thank you for your attention to this critical issue. Sincerely, Sander Levin Barbara Lee Lloyd Doggett Steny H. Hoyer James Clyburn Xavier Becerra Joe Crowley Steve Israel Robert Andrews Karen Bass Joyce Beatty Ami Bera Sanford Bishop, Jr. Tim Bishop Earl Blumenauer Suzanne Bonamici Robert A. Brady Bruce Braley Corrine Brown Julia Brownley Cheri Bustos G.K. Butterfield Lois Capps Michael Capuano Tony Cardenas Matt Cartwright Joaquin Castro Kathy Castor Donna M. Christensen Judy Chu David Cicilline Yvette Clarke Wm. Lacy Clay Emanuel Cleaver Steve Cohen John Conyers, Jr. Gerald E. Connolly Jim Cooper Jim Costa Joe Courtney Elijah E. Cummings Danny K. Davis Peter DeFazio Diana DeGette John Delaney Rosa L. DeLauro Suzan DelBene Ted Deutch John D. Dingell Donna F. Edwards Keith Ellison Eliot L. Engel William Enyart Anna Eshoo Elizabeth H. Esty Sam Farr Chaka Fattah Bill Foster Lois Frankel Marcia L. Fudge John Garamendi Alan Grayson Al Green Gene Green Raul Grijalva Michelle Lujan Grisham Luis V. Gutierrez Janice Hahn Colleen Hanabusa Alcee L. Hastings Denny Heck Brian Higgins James A. Himes Ruben Hinojosa Rush Holt Michael Honda Steven Horsford Jared Huffman Hakeem S. Jeffries Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. Marcy Kaptur William Keating Joseph P. Kennedy, III Daniel Kildee Derek Kilmer Ron Kind Ann Kirkpatrick Ann McLane Kuster James R. Langevin John B. Larson Sheila Jackson Lee John Lewis Daniel Lipinski Dave Loebsack Alan S. Lowenthal Nita Lowey Ben Ray Lujan Stephen F. Lynch Carolyn Maloney Carolyn McCarthy Betty McCollum Jim McDermott James P. McGovern Patrick E. Murphy Grace F. Napolitano Gloria Negrete McLeod Rick Nolan Gregory Meeks Michael H. Michaud George Miller Gwen Moore James P. Moran Jerrold Nadler Richard E. Neal Eleanor Holmes Norton Beto O’Rourke Frank Pallone, Jr. Bill Pascrell, Jr. Ed Pastor Donald M. Payne, Jr. Ed Perlmutter Gary C. Peters Chellie Pingree Pedro R. Pierluisi Mark Pocan David Price Mike Quigley Nick J. Rahall Charles Rangel Cedric Richmond Lucille Roybal-Allard C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Bobby L. Rush Tim Ryan Linda T. Sanchez Loretta Sanchez John P. Sarbanes Janice D. Schakowsky Adam B. Schiff Allyson Y. Schwartz Brad Sherman Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Jose E. Serrano Terri A. Sewell Carol Shea-Porter Kyrsten Sinema Albio Sires Louise M. Slaughter Jackie Speier Mark Takano Bennie Thompson Mike Thompson John F. Tierney Dina Titus Paul Tonko Marc Veasey Nydia Velázquez Chris Van Hollen Juan Vargas Debbie Wasserman Schultz Maxine Waters Melvin L. Watt Henry A. Waxman Peter Welch Frederica Wilson John A. Yarmuth
12.10.2013	We wish to express our congratulations to the people of Honduras for their commitment to democracy as demonstrated by the participation in recent elections. share: f t Washington, DC (December 10, 2013) – Reps. Jan Schakowsky, Sam Farr and Jim McGovern released the following joint statement on the Honduran elections: “We wish to express our congratulations to the people of Honduras for their commitment to democracy as demonstrated by the participation in recent elections. “We remain very concerned, however, by the climate of violence, particularly the murders of party members and candidates, including a number from the LIBRE opposition political party, and continuing threats and violence against human rights defenders, campesino organizations, land rights and environmental advocates opposing mining and other large-scale development projects, journalists and LGBT leaders. It is the responsibility of the Government of Honduras and the Honduran Attorney General’s Office to bring the perpetrators of these murders and the authors of such violence to justice in a swift and timely manner. “We also remain concerned about reported irregularities that took place in the elections and call upon the Supreme Electoral Council (TSE) and the Attorney General’s office to fully investigate these allegations and determine corrective measures or punishment if so warranted. We note that Honduras is in the process of carrying out a recount of the vote and we urge that this be done transparently, with the full support of all political parties and civil society, in as expeditious a manner as possible. “We further believe it is important that Honduran authorities fully respect the rights of its citizens to freedom of expression and association, including the right to peaceful protest. We reiterate our support to promote and protect the human rights of all Hondurans and encourage the strengthening of democratic process and institutions in Honduras, and we will continue to monitor these matters closely.
12.05.2013	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern sent a letter to Secretary Kerry, urging him to encourage his European counterparts to adopt legislation and/or measures similar to the ones outlined in the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012. The letter comes in anticipation of a new report from the State Department and Treasury on the implementation of the Magnitsky Act.
11.27.2013	GOVERNOR PATRICK ANNOUNCES SBA ASSISTANCE FOR BUSINESSES IMPACTED BY HADLEY FIRE Wednesday, November 27, 2013- Governor Deval Patrick announced that the Small Business Administration (SBA) is making Economic Injury Loans available to the dozen Massachusetts businesses affected by fire that destroyed the commercial complex at 209 Russell Street in Hadley on Sunday, October 27, 2013. Several businesses were completely destroyed by the blaze. Acting SBA Administrator Jeanne Hulit made the loans available following a disaster declaration request from Governor Patrick on November 20, 2013. The declaration covers Hampshire County and the neighboring Berkshire, Franklin, Hampden and Worcester counties in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. “I thank the SBA for their prompt approval of our request to assist in the businesses affected by the October fire in Hadley,” said Governor Patrick. “These loans will help ensure that Hadley is able to recover and rebuild stronger than before.” “This federal assistance is especially welcome as we enter the holiday season,” said U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern. “The small business community is the backbone of our local economy. I commend FEMA and the Patrick Administration for working so quickly to provide these needed resources.” Eligible businesses may qualify for loans up to $2 million. The SBA Economic Injury Disaster Loans help meet working capital needs caused by the disaster. The rates on these loans are 4 percent for non-profit organizations and 3 percent for small businesses with terms up to 30 years. The SBA determines eligibility for the loans based on the size and type of business and its financial resources. Applicants may apply online using the Electronic Loan Application (ELA) via SBA’s secure website at https://disasterloan.sba.gov/ela. Applications and program information are available by calling the SBA’s Customer Service Center at 1-800-659-2955 (1-800-877-8339 for the deaf and hard-of-hearing), or by sending an email to disastercustomerservice@sba.gov. Loan applications can also be downloaded from the SBA’s website at www.sba.gov. Completed applications should be mailed to: U.S. Small Business Administration, Processing and Disbursement Center, 14925 Kingsport Road, Fort Worth, TX 76155. The deadline to return economic injury applications is August 26, 2014.
11.25.2013	Congressman James P. McGovern today called on the Government of Bahrain to grant the early prison release of Nabeel Rajab, President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and Director of the Gulf Center for Human Rights. share: f t Rep. Jim McGovern calls on Bahrain to grant early release of Nabeel Rajab Congressman James P. McGovern today called on the Government of Bahrain to grant the early prison release of Nabeel Rajab, President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and Director of the Gulf Center for Human Rights. Rajab is currently serving a two-year prison sentence solely for peacefully exercising his right to freedom of expression. As part of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission's Defending Freedom's Project, Congressman McGovern has adopted Rajab as a prisoner of conscience and is dedicated to seeing his conviction overturned and his immediate release secured. A provision in the Bahrain criminal procedure law provides for early release on grounds of good behavior after three-quarters of a sentence served. In Nabeel’s case, this would be November 29. Rep. McGovern therefore urged the Government of Bahrain to unconditionally release Nabeel on that date and to cease further threats against all non-violent human rights activists and leaders of Bahrain’s peaceful opposition. “Nabeel provides a critical voice to those working peaceably for democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law in Bahrain,” said Congressman McGovern. “Releasing him on November 29 would send an important signal that the Bahrain government is serious about political stability and reform.” Congressman McGovern is Co-Chair of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.
11.25.2013	Mass. Delegation Pushes to Protect Air Control Towers from Closure Six towers in Massachusetts face closure without a long-term budget solution Washington (November 25, 2013) – In an effort to avert economic, security and safety hazards caused by the potential closure of six Massachusetts air traffic control towers, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, and Congressman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.) led a letter signed by the entire the Massachusetts Congressional delegation urging the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to keep the six towers open. Absent a long-term budget solution, the towers, which faced closure earlier this year but were protected by a temporary legislative fix, may be subject to shutdown. In March, the FAA announced the closure of the six towers that service a number of Massachusetts airports, including those in Beverly, Lawrence, New Bedford, Norwood, Westfield-Barnes and Worcester. The delegation also sent a letter to leaders of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees calling on them to protect funding for the towers in their budget negotiations. “The FAA’s contract tower program is critical to enhancing aviation safety and cost savings at our nation’s smaller airports,” write the members of the delegation in the letter to the FAA. “The towers permit safe arrivals and departures, prevent mid-air collisions, and maintain the safety and efficiency of our national airspace system through essential flight training programs. These airports also have a significant direct economic impact on smaller cities and rural areas. Combined, the six named towers in Massachusetts manage hundreds of thousands of operations annually. The potential closure of these facilities will have negative economic impacts on surrounding airport communities” A copy of the letter to the FAA can be found HERE. A copy of the letter to the Appropriations Committees can be found HERE.
11.21.2013	Yesterday, the TLHRC held a hearing on global gender-based violence and co-hosted a photo exhibit with the International Rescue Committee on GBV survivors in the Democratic Republic of Congo: "Vision Not Victim; Young Girls in DRC Envision Their Futures.” share: f t Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for being here for this important hearing on global gender-based violence. I want to thank J.P. Shuster and the staff of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission for organizing today’s hearing. I also want to thank the International Rescue Committee for working with the Commission to organize this morning’s excellent photo exhibit in the Rayburn Foyer. Some of these photos are set up around today’s hearing room. These images are not only a powerful call to action, but they remind us of the extraordinary resilience of women and girls and their capacity to be powerful agents of change and peace in our societies. Finally, I want to thank our witnesses, especially those who travelled from Haiti and India to be with us today. Monday, November 25th, is the United Nations’ International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. Over the past two decades, the international community has increasingly recognized gender-based violence, often called GBV, as a significant human rights and global health issue. GBV has many forms. It includes both random acts of violence, as well as sustained abuse over time. It can include forced sex, physical violence and psychological abuse. Some abuses are embedded in culture or tradition, such as so-called “honor killings” or female genital mutilation. The trafficking of women and girls for labor and sex is an especially pervasive form of GBV worldwide. And it is important to note that GBV affects not only women but also sexual attacks against men and boys. The U.S. is hardly exempt from gender-based violence and violence against women. According to the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, nearly one in five women and one in 71 men have been raped in their lifetime. One in four women and one in seven men have experienced severe physical violence by an intimate partner. Hundreds of thousands of American children each year are at risk of commercial sexual exploitation. Decades of investment in passing laws, supporting victims of violence, training advocates, lawyers, police, judges, teachers, doctors, nurses and the public are finally beginning to change how victims of physical, psychological and sexual violence are viewed by their communities and by medical, law enforcement and legal professionals. And we still have a long way to go. In recent years, the U.S. and international community have increasingly confronted the problem of GBV in emergency situations, such as violent conflict, war and natural disasters. In such cases, vulnerable populations face an array of threats, including GBV, and often their governments, communities, and families fail to protect them. Refugees and the internally displaced, and those attempting to return home, can remain vulnerable for years in the wake of emergencies. Already, we are receiving reports of women and girls vulnerable to violence in the aftermath of the typhoon that just devastated the Philippines. The U.S. has made it a high priority to address GBV, especially in two of its egregious forms – trafficking in persons and female genital cutting. In August 2012, President Obama issued an executive order to launch a multi-year U.S. Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-based Violence Globally. This initiative builds on the U.S. National Action Plan on Peace and Security and other existing State Department and USAID policies on gender equality and women’s empowerment. But the challenges to preventing GBV and providing adequate services to victims remain vast and complex. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, for example, both systematic and opportunistic GBV continues to occur with extreme brutality. Adding to the challenge of addressing such attacks is concern that the DRC military has been the largest perpetrator of abuses. In October last year, the Commission heard from women’s rights activists from Afghanistan, where legal protections for women remain limited, despite improvements since the fall of the Taliban in 2001. They voiced extreme concern – concerns that I share – about the vulnerability of women and the loss of hard-earned gains for the rights of women and girls as the U.S. withdraws the majority of its forces and the struggle over political power excludes the voices of Afghan women. Like many around the world, I was shocked and horrified by news of the ruthless gang-rape and murder of a 23-year-old physiotherapy intern in New Delhi, India last December. Although that case received international attention, most GBV crimes in India are never reported, and many victims believe the legal system does not adequately protect them. In Haiti, incidents of GBV increased amid the insecurity, displacement, and lack of social services following the January 2010 earthquake. In addition, hundreds of thousands of children in Haiti have been trafficked for domestic slavery. Girls make up the majority of these children, who are known as restaveks, and they are extremely vulnerable to sexual, physical, and psychological abuse in the households they serve. We know that violence against women is also weapon of war. In Colombia, unspeakable acts of violence have been commonplace against the women of that country, carried out by all the armed actors. The violence continues even after women and children are displaced or seek to rebuild their lives. Colombian women – like their counterparts around the world – are often leaders in their local communities and neighborhoods, and therefore targets of threats and violence. But they are not just victims – they are leaders of change and reconciliation. This Friday, November 22nd, thousands of Colombian women will gather in Bogota to march in support of peace, an end to violence, justice and reconciliation. I hope I speak for all of us here in this room when I say that we stand with these brave women as they unite for peace and an end to violence and conflict in Colombia. I would now like to turn to our witnesses for today’s hearing. Along with their oral testimony, I would like to submit into the Record any written testimony provided by our witnesses. I would also like to submit the following statements for the Record: · The Statement of Esta Soler, President and Founder, Futures Without Violence · The Statement of Ms. Wang Chunying · The Statement of Ms. Ma Chunmei · Statement “Afro-Colombian Women refuse to continue being unnamed victims” With that, I would like to welcome our first witness, Ms. Catherine Russell, the U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues. Ambassador Russell, welcome.
11.21.2013	In light of the newly public draft security agreement between the United States and Afghanistan suggesting the possibility of an American troop presence in Afghanistan past 2014 and into 2024, a bipartisan group of Congressional leaders, Reps. Barbara Lee (D-CA), Walter Jones, Jr. (R-NC), and Jim McGovern (D-MA), have sent a letter today to President Obama calling for a full withdrawal of U.S. troops and asserting Congress' role in approving any further presence. share: f t Following the announcement of the public draft security agreement between the United States and Afghanistan suggesting the possibility of American troops remaininng in Afghanistan past 2014 and potentially into 2024, a bipartisan group of Congressional leaders, Reps. Jim McGovern(D-MA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Walter Jones, Jr. (R-NC) sent a letter today to President Obama calling for a full withdrawal of U.S. troops. The letter reads, "While many of us would support removing all U.S. troops and military contractors out of Afghanistan with no permanent bases left behind by the end of 2014, we want to underscore that if any long-term commitment of U.S. troops beyond 2014 is made, it must have congressional authorization. The U.S. simply no longer has compelling security interests in Afghanistan that justifies the maintenance of troops beyond December 2014." The text of the letter is below. Read the original document here. President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 November 20, 2013 Dear Mr. President: The war in Afghanistan has just entered its 13th year, and the need to bring our troops home could not be any more clear. President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan suggested in a recent interview that he would be willing to see the permanent exit of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. President Karzai has also repeatedly stated that he sees no potential security benefit from an enduring U.S. security mission. Indeed at times President Karzai has claimed U.S. and NATO troops are the cause of insecurity in Afghanistan. We believe that President Karzai's comments raise serious doubts about the justification for a long-term military presence in Afghanistan. Lacking a supportive and viable political partner in Afghanistan, there simply is no military solution American troops can achieve, and extending U.S. troop presence will not serve vital U.S. security goals. Our men and women in uniform are immensely capable, but they cannot succeed with an openly hostile Afghan regime. While many of us would support removing all U.S. troops and military contractors out of Afghanistan with no permanent bases left behind by the end of 2014, we want to underscore that if any long-term commitment of U.S. troops beyond 2014 is made, it must have congressional authorization. The U.S. simply no longer has compelling security interests in Afghanistan that justifies the maintenance of troops beyond December 2014. Furthermore, as coalition forces withdraw from Afghanistan, U.S.- funded reconstruction projects worth billions of dollars will soon be inaccessible for safe inspection, raising serious questions about our responsibility to conduct vigorous oversight of taxpayer supported efforts. There is a growing bipartisan sentiment in Congress and across the country for an expedited end of military activities in Afghanistan. After twelve years of war, thousands of lives lost, and hundreds of billions of dollars spent, it is time to bring an end to the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan. Sincerely, BARBARA LEE WALTER JONES JAMES P. MCGOVERN Members of Congress
11.08.2013	Our natural water resources are among our most important – and our most threatened – assets,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. share: f t Congressional Delegation, Patrick Administration Announce $1.27 Million in GrantsTo Fund Watershed Restoration Projects Continuing the Patrick Administration’s efforts to promote environmental stewardship, the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP) today announced that seven projects have been recommended for more than $1.27 million in grants from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “These grants will help local communities protect vital water resources and enhance environmental quality,” said Governor Deval Patrick. “We are proud to be a partner in their efforts, and I thank the Obama Administration for supporting us and sharing our commitment to environmental stewardship.” The projects in Amesbury, Greenfield, Ipswich, Leominster and Plymouth will implement or demonstrate best management practices to mitigate the effects of polluted stormwater runoff. A Barnstable County-based project and a statewide project will develop and distribute information and materials needed to support local outreach and education efforts to address impacts of polluted stormwater. “Non-point source pollution threatens the health of our lakes, streams and watersheds and degrades the quality of life for all of our residents,” said Energy and Environmental Affairs (EEA) Secretary Rick Sullivan. “The projects announced today will make a difference in the quality of our drinking water, watersheds and aquatic recreational areas.” The grant program focuses on implementation of measures to control non-point source (NPS) pollution to surface and ground water. Unlike pollution from industrial facilities and sewage treatment plants, NPS pollution is unregulated and comes from diffuse sources. NPS pollution is caused by rainfall or snowmelt moving over and through the ground. As the runoff moves, it picks up and carries away natural and human-made pollutants, finally depositing them into lakes, rivers, wetlands, coastal waters and ground waters. “These EPA grants will help keep Massachusetts’ waterways and watershed areas clean and will strengthen communities’ efforts to preserve our natural resources,” said U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren. “I commend Governor Patrick and MassDEP for securing these grants and for their commitment to protecting our environment.” “Massachusetts’ lakes, coastlines and watersheds are treasures and these grants will help protect them from dangerous contaminants, as well inform communities about how to be good environmental stewards,” said U.S. Senator Edward Markey. “Amesbury, Greenfield, Ipswich, Leominster, Plymouth, and Barnstable County will benefit from this critical funding, and I applaud Governor Patrick for his continued leadership protecting the Commonwealth's natural resources." “I applaud the Commonwealth’s MassDEP for distributing this federal funding to these important projects,” said Congressman Bill Keating. “Coastal communities often face challenges associated with polluted groundwater and stormwater runoff, and we need a comprehensive, united solution to protect our drinking water and ecosystems. My district, in particular, is uniquely threatened by these issues. These projects are a much-needed investment.” “Our natural water resources are among our most important – and our most threatened – assets,” said Congressman Jim McGovern. “These federal grants will help steer a coordinated approach to combating stormwater runoff, protecting those assets and fostering environmental stewardship.” “I’m pleased that Amesbury and Ipswich are among the Massachusetts cities and towns that will be receiving federal funds to support their efforts to protect water resources from non-point source pollution,” said Congressman John Tierney. “These projects are critical to ensuring that Massachusetts’ natural resources remain free of harmful contaminants, and I applaud these communities for their continued commitment to environmental stewardship.” Common types of NPS pollution include phosphorus and nitrogen from lawn and garden fertilizers and agricultural operations, bacteria from pet waste and waterfowl, oil and grease from parking lots and roadways and sediment from construction activities and soil erosion. “These grant awards allow us to continue to build strong coalitions with our regional and municipal partners to help control non-point source pollution,” said MassDEP Commissioner Kenneth Kimmell. “Many of these projects also seek to educate citizens about the dangers of non-point source pollution and how to eliminate it.” These projects will help to protect Massachusetts’ water resources by restoring and preserving watershed areas, constructing best management practices, demonstrating innovative technologies and educating the public on how to protect sensitive natural resources. Recipients include municipalities, county governments, regional planning agencies, environmental groups and private consultants. (more) “Stormwater can cause serious harm to our fragile ecosystem,” said Senate President Therese Murray. “It is important that we find ways to manage the runoff into our rivers, coastal waters, groundwater and other bodies of water as well as educate the public on its impacts on community health. I am proud of my hometown of Plymouth and communities on the Cape for taking the lead on these pressing environmental issues.” “I thank Governor Patrick, Secretary Sullivan, Commissioner Kimmell and MassDEP for securing these funds to help protect our natural resources,” said House Speaker Robert A. DeLeo. “As a representative of a coastal community, I know how important it is to commit ourselves to preserving our beaches and waterways. These grants are an important step in that direction.” “These grants are an example of the commitment the Commonwealth and the federal government share to clean up our storm water and groundwater,” said Senator Marc R. Pacheco, Senate chair of the Joint Committee on Environment, Natural Resources and Agriculture. “We must do everything we can to protect our watershed from pollution and to preserve this important resource for the public health of our citizens today and in the future.” “I appreciate the work MassDEP is doing in conjunction with communities who are trying their best to comply with regulations designed to protect our waterways,” said Representative Anne Gobi, House chair of the Joint Committee on Environment, Natural Resources and Agriculture. “These grants will assist communities and help to educate the public about stormwater and the best ways to effectively deal with the pollutants it carries.” Each of these projects was reviewed and approved by MassDEP’s regional staff, the MassDEP and EEA Proposal Review Committee and the federal EPA. Funding for the projects will be available in early 2014. The projects are as follows: Barnstable County Department of Health and Environment Project Name: Investigation of Passive Nitrogen Removal Strategies for Onsite Septic Systems at the Massachusetts Alternative Septic System Test Center – $85,725 Total Project Cost: $146,184 Town of Plymouth Project Name: White Island Pond Phosphorus Inactivation Project – $260,232 Total Project Cost: $437,010 (more) Massachusetts Watershed Coalition Project Name: Monoosnoc Brook Renewal Project, Leominster – $229,000 Total Project Cost: $515,000 Franklin Regional Council of Governments Project Name: Using Low Impact Development Techniques to Manage Stormwater Runoff in Greenfield – $218,600 Total Project Cost: $595,600 Town of Amesbury Project Name: Lake Gardner and Powow River NPS Improvement Project – $166,960 Total Project Cost: $278,360 Town of Ipswich Project Name: Ipswich River Watershed Best Management Practices Implementation at Farley Brook – $261,600 Total Project Cost: $438,782 Comprehensive Environmental, Inc. Project Name: Tree Canopy Stormwater Implementation and Outreach Program, Statewide – $47,976 Total Project Cost: $79,960 MassDEP is responsible for ensuring clean air and water, safe management and recycling of solid and hazardous wastes, timely cleanup of hazardous waste sites and spills and the preservation of wetlands and coastal resources. ###
11.06.2013	As a strong supporter of the peace process, I congratulate the negotiators on this achievement. share: f t STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ON COLOMBIA “As a strong supporter of the peace process, I congratulate the negotiators on this achievement. It’s critical that they continue to move forward and complete a strong, just and lasting accord that will finally end 50 years of conflict and help victims and communities heal the wounds of war.”
11.01.2013	The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today announced a resolution congratulating the Boston Red Sox on their 2013 World Series victory against the St. Louis Cardinals, honoring past and present Red Sox legends for their contributions to the Red Sox organization, thanking the world championship team for their dedication to the City of Boston and all of Red Sox Nation, and recognizing the players' embodiment of 'Boston Strong.' share: f t MASSACHUSETTS CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION ANNOUNCES RESOLUTION ON BOSTON RED SOX WORLD SERIES VICTORY The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today announced a resolution congratulating the Boston Red Sox on their 2013 World Series victory against the St. Louis Cardinals, honoring past and present Red Sox legends for their contributions to the Red Sox organization, thanking the world championship team for their dedication to the City of Boston and all of Red Sox Nation, and recognizing the players' embodiment of 'Boston Strong.' The resolution will be introduced in the United States Senate and House of Representatives by the Massachusetts delegation and other members from New England. The full text of the resolution is below: Title: Congratulating the Boston Red Sox on winning the 2013 World Series. Whereas, on October 30, 2013, the Boston Red Sox won the 2013 World Series by defeating the St. Louis Cardinals; Whereas the Boston Red Sox won the World Series before the Fenway Faithful for the first time since 1918, igniting the city with pride; Whereas the St. Louis Cardinals demonstrated sportsmanship, skill, and perseverance; Whereas the St. Louis Cardinals are recognized for their phenomenal effort and success throughout the 2013 baseball season, posting a record of 97-65 and winning their fourth National League pennant in 10 years; Whereas Boston's victory marks their third world title in 10 years and their 8th world title in the treasured and beloved Red Sox team's 113-year history; Whereas the Red Sox players and staff showed the most advanced skill, heart, and grit through the entire regular season and postseason, winning the American League Division Series, the American League Championship Series, and the World Series; Whereas the Red Sox made history and showed tremendous resilience in becoming the first team to win the World Series after losing at least 93 games the previous year; Whereas the 2013 team will be remembered for the inspiration they drew from the city of Boston, the joy they brought to the city and the region, and their embodiment of "Boston Strong"; Whereas the Red Sox players' beards will be remembered as a symbol of the 2013 Boston Red Sox's spirit and unity; Whereas the Red Sox World Series victory paid tribute to former Red Sox legends, including Bobby Doerr, Joe Cronin, Johnny Pesky, Carl Yastrzemski, Ted Williams, Carlton Fisk, and Jim Rice; Whereas Red Sox manager John Farrell has won his first World Series title at the helm of the Red Sox and assembled one of the greatest Red Sox teams of all time; Whereas David Ortiz, a vital Red Sox and member of the 2004 and 2007 World Series championship teams and with 103 runs-batted-in (RBIs) during the season, was recognized as the Most Valuable Player in the 2013 World Series, batting .688, hitting two critical home runs, and cementing his reputation as one of the greatest postseason performers in baseball history; Whereas John Lackey and Clay Buchholz dominated opposing batters throughout the American League Championship, and Jon Lester had an overpowering performance in Game 5 of the World Series, tying the Red Sox post-season record for wins with six; Whereas Koji Uehara delivered unmatched relief pitching performances throughout the regular season, earning 21 saves with just a 1.09 earned run average and silenced opposing hitters during the playoffs; Whereas Mike Napoli blasted a game-deciding home run in game 3 of the American League Championship Series and produced key hits and leadership for the Red Sox throughout the World Series; Whereas Shane Victorino solidified his legend in postseason baseball lore by blasting a grand slam that drove the Red Sox past the Detroit Tigers in game 6 of the American League Championship Series, hitting a three run double in the World Series-clinching win at Fenway Park, and earning a Gold Glove award for his stellar performance in right field; Whereas Dustin Pedroia, a sure-handed fielder, was awarded the Gold Glove for his unshakeable defensive play at second base during the 2013 regular season, provided relentless leadership in the Red Sox clubhouse, and set an example for countless young baseball fans across our country; Whereas the Boston Red Sox were led to the World Series by the determination of every Red Sox player this season, including Alfredo Aceves, Quintin Berry, Xander Bogaerts, Craig Breslow, Clay Buchholz, Mike Carp, Ryan Dempster, Jonathan Diaz, Felix Doubront, Stephen Drew, Jacoby Ellsbury, Jonny Gomes, Brock Holt, John Lackey, Ryan Lavarnway, Jon Lester, Will Middlebrooks, Franklin Morales, Mike Napoli, Daniel Nava, Jake Peavy, Dustin Pedroia, David Ortiz, David Ross, Jarrod Saltalamacchia, Junichi Tazawa, Koji Uehara, Shane Victorino, and Brandon Workman; Whereas Red Sox owners John Henry and Tom Werner and Red Sox president and chief executive officer Larry Lucchino and general manager Ben Cherington deserve credit for building on the success of the 2004 and 2007 World Championship teams; Whereas Bill James, the father of modern statistical analysis of baseball and a pioneer in the sabermetric movement, won his third World Series as a member of the Red Sox staff; Whereas the Boston Red Sox have been serving charities throughout New England, including the "Jimmy Fund" of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute for 60 years and joining the fight against cancer; and Whereas fans of the Red Sox, not only in Boston or New England but across the world, join together to triumphantly celebrate the win after mourning the tragic events of the 2013 Boston Marathon earlier this year; and Whereas the Fenway Faithful and Red Sox Nation thank the Red Sox organization for their loyalty to the city and delivery of the 2013 World Series title : Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate- (1) congratulates- (A) the Boston Red Sox for bringing the World Series title back to Boston, and the players, manager, coaches, support staff, and owners whose dedication, commitment, and spirit made this season a historic success; and (B) the St. Louis Cardinals for their accomplishments and dedication during the 2013 season and in winning the National League Championship; and (2) directs the Secretary of the Senate to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to- (A) Red Sox manager John Farrell; (B) Red Sox general manager Ben Cherington; (C) Red Sox president and chief executive officer Larry Lucchino; (D) Red Sox principal owner John Henry; and (E) Red Sox chairman Tom Werner.
11.01.2013	Mr. Chairman, there are important parts of this Farm Bill that will impact Massachusetts and New England. The dairy, conservation, and specialty crop provisions are especially critical for the part of the country I represent and I strongly support full and robust dairy, conservation, and specialty crop provisions in the final conference report. I’m also pleased to see that both the House and Senate included language to close the animal fighting spectator loophole. Both bills would prohibit knowingly attending an animal fight or bringing a child to an animal fight. I urge my colleagues to support these provisions. I’d like to spend my remaining time on the issue of hunger. I remind my colleagues that no matter what we do with this farm bill, a $5 billion cut in SNAP will automatically go into effect in just two days. On average, this cut will mean a reduction in the monthly SNAP benefit of about $30 for a family of three. That’s about 16 fewer meals per month. We have a hunger problem in this country. It’s not fashionable to talk about it, it’s not a comfortable conversation to have, but it’s a fact. 50 million Americans struggle every single day to get enough to eat. And it is hard to be poor. Very hard. We must not make a bad situation even worse by piling on even deeper cuts. The House bill would do just that by cutting $40 billion from our most important and effective program that helps millions of Americans put food on the table. The House bill would result in 3 to 4 million hungry people being removed from SNAP altogether; about 200,000 kids would lose access to free school meals; and 170,000 veterans would lose access to SNAP. These are more than just statistics. Behind every number is a human being – a child or a senior or a neighbor who’s struggling, and who needs this modest benefit. And let me remind every Member of this Conference Committee that outside of children and seniors, the majority of able-bodied adults receiving SNAP do work. But they make so little that they still need help to put food on their tables. It’s unconscionable and unacceptable that we would make their lives more difficult. Let’s be absolutely clear: the House bill will make hunger worse in America. Like everyone else on this conference committee, I want to see a robust, comprehensive Farm Bill. I am willing to be flexible. I am willing to compromise. But I will not support a Farm Bill that makes hunger worse. None of us should. I yield back the balance of my time.
10.29.2013	Today, the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation sent a letter to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) expressing concerns about a new plan to reassign responsibility for the monitoring of exit lanes from TSA to airport operators. share: f t Mass Delegation Queries TSA About Changes to Guarding of Airport Exit Lanes Washington (October 28, 2013) – Today, the entire Massachusetts Congressional delegation sent a letter to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) expressing concerns about a new plan to reassign responsibility for the monitoring of exit lanes from TSA to airport operators. Exit lanes are the exit doors at airports between arriving flights and baggage claims. In the letter, the delegation asks TSA to explain what the impact of the reassignment of responsibility will have on aviation security. The change is scheduled to begin in January 2014. “We support TSA’s original decision to staff exit lanes with TSA employees and have questions about how TSA’s plans could undermine aviation security,” write the Massachusetts delegation in the letter. “In particular, we are concerned about its impact on the security of the flying public, airport employees, and airline crewmembers.” “TSA’s mandate is to administer a uniform, comprehensive federal system for screening passengers and baggage before accessing the sterile area,” said Ed Freni, Massport¹s Director of Aviation. “TSA staffing of exit lanes at airports like Boston Logan International Airport is critical to the agency fulfilling its responsibility.” A copy of the letter to TSA can be found HERE. In the letter, the Massachusetts delegation asks TSA to respond to questions that include: What potential security risk does improperly staffed exit lanes pose to passengers, personnel and aircraft? When and how does TSA plan to implement this change in the responsibility of monitoring exit lanes at airports? Why is TSA choosing not to view exit lane monitoring as a screening function given that armed law enforcement officers and known crew members often use the exit lane to enter what is intended to be a secure area? How will TSA ensure that security in these areas is maintained, including whether non-TSA employees are qualified to perform this important security function and are properly trained? ###
10.29.2013	Weak enforcement of existing labor laws and continued violence against labor leaders in Colombia more than a year after the implementation of the U.S.-Colombia Labor Action Plan should offer important lessons of what not to do in future trade agreements, concluded a report issued today by Reps. George Miller (D-Calif.) and James McGovern (D-Mass.). share: f t Failure of Labor Action Plan in Colombia Holds Lessons for Trans-Pacific Partnership Trade Agreement Negotiations, Says Congressional Report Report found widespread problems with the implementation of new labor rights for Colombian workers Weak enforcement of existing labor laws and continued violence against labor leaders in Colombia more than a year after the implementation of the U.S.-Colombia Labor Action Plan should offer important lessons of what not to do in future trade agreements, concluded a report issued today by Reps. George Miller (D-Calif.) and James McGovern (D-Mass.). Miller and McGovern, who are members of the Congressional Monitoring Group on Labor Rights in Colombia, visited the country in August and had an opportunity to examine the implementation of the Labor Action Plan and its impact on the ground. “Despite the [Labor Action Plan], murders and threats against union members and harmful subcontracting [that deny the right to organize] persist in Colombia largely unabated,” the report said. “[R]eports of worsening labor rights conditions in Colombia provide an important lesson when developing trade policy. The fact that the LAP has not resulted in improving working conditions [on the ground] in Colombia merits attention especially in the context of current negotiations for a Trans-Pacific Partnership [trade agreement].” Developed in parallel with the US-Colombia trade agreement, Presidents Barack Obama and Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia launched the Labor Action Plan between Colombia and the U.S. in April 2011 promising improved worker rights while paving the way for a vote on the long-pending trade agreement. The plan was intended to provide a road map for Colombia to protect internationally recognized labor rights, prevent violence against labor leaders, and prosecute the perpetrators of such violence. However, Miller and McGovern found continued widespread threats of violence and cases of actual violence against labor union members and leaders, and continued practices of suppressing unionization, despite additional protections passed into law by the Colombian government. “The members of the delegation conclude that the Government of Colombia is woefully falling short of compliance with the Labor Action Plan, and in many cases, these shortfalls have made working conditions for workers worse than before it came into effect,” the report said. “Before asking Congress to approve another trade agreement, such as the TPP, which poses similar labor and human rights issues, the Administration must first demonstrate concrete and effective improvements in workers’ rights on the ground in Colombia under the Labor Action Plan.” Miller and McGovern made a number of recommendations to both the U.S. and Colombian governments in order for the Labor Action Plan to live up to its promise of improve conditions on the ground for Colombian workers that guarantees the free exercise of workers’ labor rights. Read the report and recommendations here (pdf).
10.12.2013	Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi today named House Democratic Members, including Congressman Jim McGovern, to serve on a conference committee to complete a five-year long reauthorization of the Farm Bill: share: f t Leader Pelosi names McGovern as House Farm Bill Democratic Conferee Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi today named House Democratic Members, including Congressman Jim McGovern, to serve on a conference committee to complete a five-year long reauthorization of the Farm Bill: “When millions of American are struggling to put food on the table, it is long past time for Congress to go to the negotiating table and pass a Farm Bill that will provide much-needed nutrition support for our children, our seniors, and our communities,” Leader Pelosi said. “These House Democrats will offer an extraordinary level of leadership, dedication, and wide-ranging expertise in our work to restore stability to our farmers and ranchers, our rural communities, and American families across the country.” Earlier this summer, House Republicans barely passed a partisan Farm Bill that failed to include provisions from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and passed without a single Democratic vote. In doing so, they turned their back on a long history of bipartisanship as well as the economic security of millions of Americans. House Democrats are ready to come to the table and reauthorize farm programs along with SNAP for five years instead of allowing House Republicans to decouple important nutrition programs from the rest of the Farm Bill. "I'm honored that Leader Pelosi has named me to the conference committee," said Congressman McGovern. "This entire Farm Bill process has been a mess, but I'm hopeful we'll be able to use this committee to get a bill that, instead of harming our most vulnerable citizens, works to end hunger now, helps our family farms, and supports our rural communities." The following Democratic Members will serve on the Farm Bill conference: Leader’s Representative: Congresswoman Marcia Fudge of Ohio, Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus House Committee on Agriculture: Ranking Member Collin Peterson of Minnesota Congressman Mike McIntyre of North Carolina Congressman Jim Costa of California Congressman Tim Walz of Minnesota Congressman Kurt Schrader of Oregon Congressman Jim McGovern of Massachusetts Congresswoman Suzan DelBene of Washington Congresswoman Gloria Negrete McLeod of California Congressman Filemon Vela of Texas House Committee on Foreign Affairs: Ranking Member Eliot Engel of New York House Ways and Means Committee: Ranking Member Sandy Levin of Michigan
10.05.2013	Representative McGovern, joined by 199 Democrats, sent a letter to House Speaker Boehner today demanding a vote on a piece of legislation that would end the shutdown and fund the government. A vote on the legislation would open the entire federal government immediately. share: f t Representative McGovern Urges Speaker Boehner to End the Republican Shutdown Representative McGovern, joined by 199 Democrats, sent a letter to House Speaker Boehner today demanding a vote on a piece of legislation that would end the shutdown and fund the government. A vote on the legislation would open the entire federal government immediately. “Today marks the fifth day of the government shutdown and yet House Republicans continue to take our nation on their dangerous, ideological path that’s threatening job growth, leaving families with less security and our country with less certainty and stability,” said Representative McGovern. “Our message is clear, we demand a vote to end the shutdown and reopen our entire government so Americans can move on with their lives.” Since the shutdown, House Democrats have tried seven times to bring up a vote on the Senate-passed continuing resolution, which would fund government at levels passed by both chambers of Congress and end the shutdown immediately. However, House Republicans blocked a vote on each of the Democrats’ measures. “House Republicans continue to drag out this damaging shutdown by voting a cynical, piecemeal approach to funding government,” said McGovern. “This is no way to govern and no way to run the largest economy in the world. It’s time for House Republicans to drop the political games and join Democrats to bring a vote to the floor immediately to end the shutdown and get our government working again for the American people.” This unnecessary shutdown is having a devastating impact on our economy, costing more than $300 million in taxpayer dollars a day, halting much-needed loans to small businesses, and forcing roughly 800,000 federal employees that work hard to make our nation a safer and better place to live to be furloughed.
10.04.2013	After months of trying to cut $40 billion from the SNAP program, after months of demonizing poor people, after months of trying to slash food assistance programs across the board, Republicans would like us all to believe that they care about hunger in America. share: f t I thank the Ranking Member for the time. M. Speaker, here we are on day 4 of the Republican shutdown of the people’s government. The other day after meeting with the President at the White House, Speaker Boehner said, “at some point, we’ve got to allow the process that our founders gave us to work out." M. Speaker, I’ve studied the American history, too. And what the Republican Leadership is doing with this rule is a million miles away from what the founders had in mind. I am trying to find it comforting that Speaker Boehner has said privately that he wants to extend the debt ceiling. But he also said that he didn’t want to shut down the government, and yet here we are. And I don’t know what Senator Cruz is saying privately, which is important because he’s apparently calling the shots around here. The rule before us today extends martial law rule until October 21st – they have decided they have the right to throw the rules and traditions of this House into the trash can for the next 2 ½ weeks. That’s 4 days after we default on our obligations. That should make all of us very very nervous. The rule also makes in order eleven separate bills, many of which were never considered on the House floor, under a closed process with no amendments. I’ve been on and around the Rules Committee for quite a few years, M. Speaker, but I have never – ever – seen a rule like this. I find it astounding that the Republicans have suddenly found religion on the need to go to conference on the budget. Because for months and months and months they refused to appoint budget negotiators. But suddenly, as the American people rise up in outrage over their tactics, and their poll numbers fall off a cliff, my Republican friends want to negotiate. There’s a very easy way to get past this. Bring up the short-term clean continuing resolution that has already passed the Senate and we will pass it with a bipartisan vote and end this unnecessary, harmful Republican shutdown. And not only is this process awful, so are many of the bills made in order under this rule. I want to talk about one in particular, the one that provides funding for WIC – the Women, Infants and Children nutrition program. After months of trying to cut $40 billion from the SNAP program, after months of demonizing poor people, after months of trying to slash food assistance programs across the board, Republicans would like us all to believe that they care about hunger in America. Give me a break. Where have you been? I would ask my Republican friends. Where have you been? Because of the sequester, we’ve already seen WIC clinics closed and participation in the program fall. That means that fewer and fewer low-income women and children are getting the help – the nutritious food – they need. This bill doesn’t fix that. The National WIC Association urges the House to oppose HJ Res 75, calling it “a cynical ploy to use low-income nutritionally at-risk mothers and young children as political pawns for political ends.” They are right, M. Speaker. This is a cynical ploy. Enough is enough. I urge my colleagues to defeat this rule, pass the clean CR and let the American people get on with their lives.
10.01.2013	Remarks from the floor on September 30, 2013: I thank the gentleman for yielding me the customary 30 minutes and I yield myself such time as I may consume. M./ Speaker, once again, the Republican Majority is back on the House Floor trampling upon regular order and eliminating any possibility of a fair and transparent legislative process. When the Majority assumed control of this chamber in 2011, they promised to adhere to regular order. On March 10, 2010, National Journal reporter Major Garrett asked Rep. John Boehner: “If you are speaker, will you ever bring a bill to the floor that hasn’t been true to the three-day rule?” Congressman Boehner replied with one-word: “no.” In the same interview, Congressman Boehner said, “We need to stop writing bills in the speaker’s office and let members of Congress be legislators again…We have nothing to fear from the battle of ideas.” Those promises seem a million miles away today. Sadly, since that time the Majority has repeatedly violated their own promises of openness and transparency. Thirty-three times the Majority has violated its own three-day promise, and rushed legislation to the House Floor. They have avoided the committee process and brought legislation straight to the House Floor 48 times. And despite promising to let the House “work its will” the Majority has approved 157 closed or structured rules, and just 31 open or modified rules. In short, the Majority has shut out Democrats and Republicans alike and shut down the democratic process. Why have they done this? Not because they are letting the House work its will. They have abandoned regular order because an extreme faction of their party is so uncompromising that they are willing to shutdown our government or implode our economy unless they get their way. As a potential government shutdown looms – just a few days from now – we still don’t know what the Republican Majority is planning to do. What we do know is that whatever they propose will have been written behind closed doors in an attempt to appease the most extreme elements of the Republican Conference. M./ Speaker, time is running out. Now more than ever, the American people deserve a fair and transparent legislative process so that we can keep our government open and our economy on track. Implementing martial law, as this rule would do, would be a step in the wrong direction. I urge my colleagues to reject today’s rule, and protect our democratic process. I reserve the balance of my time. --- I thank the Ranking member for the time. M. Speaker, here we go again. As we look up at the clock, we see there are only hours to a completely unnecessary and economically harmful government shutdown. I don’t see the junior senator from Texas on the floor, but I presume that he has signed off on this latest feeble Republican strategy, since he seems the one to be calling the shots around here. I say to my Republican friends: Enough. Enough of the gamesmanship. Enough of the legislative ping-pong. Enough of the high-fives and cheers from the floor. It’s time to put on your grown-up pants and do your jobs. It’s a job, by the way, that should have been done months ago. The House passed a budget and the Senate passed a budget. But instead of going to a conference committee to hash out the numbers, the Republican Leadership REFUSED to appoint conferees. They refused to negotiate. And as a result, we are here on the edge of the cliff. Here’s the irony, M. Speaker – it’s clear to me at least that there is a majority in this House – Republican and Democrat – for passing the clean CR sent to us by the Senate. Here’s another irony – that clean CR contains the numbers of my Republican friends’ beloved sequester! Numbers that I believe are far too low. For the life of me I don’t understand why the Republicans don’t declare victory and let us get on with the business of governing. And part of that governing is ensuring that the Affordable Care Act works as well as possible for the American people. It’s the law of the land. It’s going to stay that way. Neither the Senate nor the President is going to accept any changes. And let me say a word about the so-called Vitter amendment that is included in this bill. Unlike what my Republican friends say, the Vitter amendment doesn’t make the people who work for us live like everyone else. In fact, it singles them out for special punishment. It says to the people who help us draft legislation, who answer the phones in our offices and respond to constituent mail, who help a veteran get his benefits or a high school student apply to the military academies that unlike every other federal employee, their employer will not contribute a share toward their health insurance. It’s a lousy thing to do. I say to my colleagues, if you want to see an exodus of smart, dedicated people away from Congress, if you want to see this place get even dumber, then by all means pass the Vitter Amendment. Otherwise, we should treat it like the cynical talking point that it is and vote it down. Again, M. Speaker, it’s time for my Republican friends to put on their grown-up pants and do the right thing. I urge my colleagues to reject this rule, reject the underlying bill and pass a clean CR.
09.23.2013	The entire Massachusetts delegation today pressed the Small Business Administration (SBA) to provide financial assistance to Massachusetts fishermen who have been hard hit by reductions in catch limits and groundfish stocks. share: f t Massachusetts Delegation Urges Small Business Assistance for FishermenDisaster loans would help struggling fishermen(September 23, 2013) – The entire Massachusetts delegation today pressed the Small Business Administration (SBA) to provide financial assistance to Massachusetts fishermen who have been hard hit by reductions in catch limits and groundfish stocks.In a letter sent today by the Bay State lawmakers to the head of disaster assistance at the SBA, they ask for the agency to back the certification made by Governor Deval Patrick that small businesses in Barnstable, Bristol, Essex, Plymouth, Norfolk and Suffolk counties have suffered substantial economic injury as a result of a fishery resource disaster. They also ask that the SBA enact a plan to provide economic assistance to fishermen through the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program.“Our fishermen and fishing-related businesses need SBA assistance as they work to adjust to a perfect storm of events that threatens the future one of our nation’s oldest and most storied industries and the coastal communities that depend on it,” write the lawmakers. “The assistance would be used to help ease the economic effects of federal regulations imposed to stop what the Department of Commerce and fishermen anticipate will be dramatic declines in groundfish stocks in the Massachusetts multispecies fishery, while also allowing critical investments to make the industry more sustainable in the long term.”The full letter can be found HERE. The letter, led by Senator Edward J. Markey, was signed by Senator Elizabeth Warren, and Reps. Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen Lynch, John Tierney, Niki Tsongas, Bill Keating, and Joe Kennedy III.Due to determinations that stocks of cod, flounder, and other groundfish are not at healthy levels, significant cuts have been made to the amount of those fish that Northeast fishermen can catch. Combined with high fuel prices and other harsh economic factors, many fishermen who have worked the waters for years or for generations have gone out of business or are in danger of doing so.
09.20.2013	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern, Democratic Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, today sent a letter to President Obama regarding Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir's reported request for a visa from the United States to attend the United Nations General Assembly. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern, Democratic Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, today sent a letter to President Obama regarding Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir’s reported request for a visa from the United States to attend the United Nations General Assembly.Rep. McGovern, a long-time leading voice on U.S. –Sudan policy, is the principal sponsor of bipartisan legislation (HR 1692, the Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act) to strengthen and expand sanctions against Sudan and advance comprehensive strategy to resolve all the conflicts afflicting that country.In the letter, Rep. McGovern urges President Obama “in the strongest possible terms to exercise every measure available” to prevent Bashir from coming to the United States.
09.18.2013	All 20 of New England's Representatives in the U.S. House sent a letter to Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, expressing their concern that proposed funding changes to clean air programs would have a negative impact on the region. share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 18, 2013New England Delegation Sends Letter to EPA Opposing Changes to Clean Air Funding All 20 of New England’s Representatives in the U.S. House sent a letter to Gina McCarthy, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, expressing their concern that proposed funding changes to clean air programs would have a negative impact on the region.“Given New England’s long established history of working to provide its citizens with clean air and a healthy environment, we are concerned that the proposed changes would undermine these accomplishments,” the letter reads.In June, the EPA announced changes to the way the agency plans to distribute air quality funds. These revisions would reduce New England’s funding in order to send money to other regions that have not done as much to improve air quality. If fully implemented, these changes could decrease New England’s funding by 30%-40%, forcing state governments to make up the difference. In addition, other proposed changes would require more matching funds from states to support programs aimed at monitoring air quality. This would create a substantial burden on New England and could cripple the monitoring programs these states use to keep their air clean.“We strongly encourage you to ensure that the air quality programs in New England are at least level funded by the EPA through FY 2014,” the delegation wrote. The letter was organized by Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter and was signed by Representatives Capuano, Cicilline, Courtney, DeLauro, Esty, Himes, Keating, Kennedy III, Kuster, Langevin, Larson, Lynch, McGovern, Michaud, Neal, Pingree, Shea-Porter, Tierney, Tsongas, and Welch. Full text of the letter can be found below.+++September 17, 2013The Honorable Gina McCarthyAdministratorU.S. Environmental Protection Agency1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20460Dear Administrator McCarthy:We write to you today because it has been brought to our attention that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is planning to implement a new funding formula for federal air quality programs that may have a significant negative impact on programs in New England. Given New England’s long established history of working to provide its citizens with clean air and a healthy environment, we are concerned that the proposed changes would undermine these accomplishments while sending more money to regions that have a track record of neglecting these critical issues.In the Fiscal Year 2014 National Program Managers Guidance, the EPA has announced two changes to the distribution of air quality funds that would have a significant impact on New England’s air quality programs. The first proposal would revise the Section 105 allocation formula for the distribution of state/local air grant funds. The proposed revisions would reduce the funding that would go to New England in order to provide funding for other regions that have not done as much to improve air quality. These changes would reduce funding going to New England by 30%-40% once fully implemented. The second significant change is that the EPA would transition air monitoring funds into Section 105 from Section 103, which would then require matching funds from the state. This would create a substantial burden on the New England states and other states that rely on these funds for monitoring programs.We urge you to postpone any significant changes to the Section 105 allocation formula until it has received adequate funding so that no region would see a drastic reduction from its prior year allocation. New England has been a national leader in air quality programs, taking the lead on issues like reducing mercury emissions, encouraging diesel retrofits for construction equipment and buses, creating cleaner woodstoves, and encouraging research into advancing the science of transported air pollution and climate change. EPA’s proposed plans would reduce critical funding to support these efforts while transferring funds to regions that have not demonstrated a similar dedication to improving air quality. We strongly encourage you to ensure that the air quality programs in New England are at least level funded by the EPA through FY 2014. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
09.17.2013	The U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) has awarded $1.4 million to Becker College and the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute (MassDiGI) to help create the MassDiGI New Ventures Center (NVC).Becker will match the EDA grant to build the $2.8 million NVC, which will function as an on-campus business assistance center located in the College’s historic property at 80 William Street in Worcester. The NVC will be a business assistance center for interactive media, game development, and technology-centric business undergraduate and graduate student entrepreneurs from Massachusetts “Gateway Cities”--urban centers “with unrealized potential” that anchor regional economies around the state. The NVC is expected to support the creation of 430 jobs over a ten-year period.Becker College is one of only two institutions in Massachusetts to be recognized in The Princeton Review’s top-15 colleges for video game design for four consecutive years. In 2011, Becker was designated by state officials as host of MassDiGI.“As the home of both MassDiGI and a nationally recognized video game development program, Becker College is perfectly positioned to help grow one of the most dynamic pillars of the Massachusetts innovation economy: the interactive entertainment industry,” said Robert E. Johnson, Ph.D., president of Becker College and chair of the MassDiGI Advisory Board. “The jobs created by the work of this center will be highly skilled and well-paid. They will build the talent pool in Massachusetts by providing opportunity for graduates from Becker and other institutions of higher learning across the state.”“This highly competitive grant allows the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute and Becker College to take a major step forward in pursuing their vision for an innovation hub built on collaboration between academia, private industry, and government,” said U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (D-Mass.). “Mass DiGI and Becker College are leading the way in preparing our students of today for the jobs of tomorrow, and the landmark New Ventures Center will be at the crux of sustainable, long-term, innovation-economy job growth in a rapidly expanding industry.”“I’m pleased the EDA has awarded this grant to support the New Ventures Center and MassDiGI at Becker College,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.). “These kinds of investments in higher education help grow Massachusetts’ innovation economy and create more opportunities for students across the Commonwealth.""This funding for the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute will help expand cooperation between our universities and the digital and video game industry, key players in our thriving innovation economy,” said Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.). “I congratulate Becker College, whose program will help entrepreneurs develop new video games, train students to become skilled workers, and create jobs across Massachusetts in a growing and competitive industry." To house the NVC, Becker College will undergo an ambitious renovation of 80 William Street on the College’s Worcester campus. The new center will retain the historical character of 80 William Street, while offering meeting space, computer labs, and other facilities dedicated to research, design, and incubation of new enterprises. The goal: To attract private investment, create new jobs, help retain existing businesses in Massachusetts, and support entrepreneurship in the state’s video game sector.
09.13.2013	Today, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), McGovern (D-MA), Peter T. King (R-NY), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) were joined by the Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition in calling for passage of the Commuter Parity Act of 2013 (H.R 2288). This revenue-neutral bipartisan legislation will establish permanent tax credit parity between the parking and transit/vanpool portions of the transportation fringe benefit. share: f t Reps. Grimm, McGovern, King, Blumenauer Call for Transit Benefit ParityCall on House to Pass the Commuter Parity Act of 2013 to maketransit benefits equal for drivers and public transit commutersToday, Reps. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY), McGovern (D-MA), Peter T. King (R-NY), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) were joined by the Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition in calling for passage of the Commuter Parity Act of 2013 (H.R 2288). This revenue-neutral bipartisan legislation will establish permanent tax credit parity between the parking and transit/vanpool portions of the transportation fringe benefit. Without the fix, commuters taking public transportation will see their tax benefit cut almost in half to $125, while those who drive and park will maintain the current $245 tax benefit. The Transit Parity Act equalizes the transit and parking benefits by capping both at $220. This makes the change deficit neutral, and ensures that our tax code is fair and applies equally to all consumers.“With outrageous tolls, high gas prices, and over-crowded streets, Congress must focus on common sense policies that encourage Americans to use public transportation, instead of pushing them back into their cars. Without transit parity, we continue to create an incentive to drive and put an unfair financial burden on New York City’s hard-working families and residents who rely daily on public transportation. It is only fair that the pre-tax benefit be made permanently equal, no matter how one commutes to work, which is why my colleagues and I are working hand in hand with the Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition to push for the Transit Parity Act to be passed here in Congress,” said Rep. Grimm.“For most working families, transportation is the second largest household expense,” Rep. McGovern said. “The transit benefit is one small, but significant, piece to making commuting more affordable for millions of Americans. It allows American families to have a little more money in their pockets. The transit benefit makes sense for employers too, especially small businesses. I’m proud to once again join in this bipartisan effort,” said Rep. McGovern“Transit parity provides an incentive for millions of working Americans to use mass transportation, which reduces our dependence on foreign oil and eases traffic congestion on our roads. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this critical matter,” said Rep. King.“Providing commuters more tax relief for their parking costs than their transit costs distorts consumer choices, and encourages commuters to spend more time in traffic. The Commuter Parity Act fixes this inequity, in a cost-neutral way, by setting parking and transit benefits at $220. This saves consumers and businesses money and reduces congestion, while giving Americans real choices that aren’t influenced by congressional policy,” said Rep. BlumenauerOn January 1, 2014, almost 3 million of America’s commuters will face a tax increase unless Congress acts. Transportation is the second largest household expense for American families, and currently Congress provides a tax credit to commuters to help account for parking and transit costs. However, without congressional action, on January 2nd, the cost for those who use the transit benefit will practically double. While the parking benefit will remain at $245 a year, the transit benefit will drop to $125, leaving families and commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden.In addition to increasing commuters’ taxes, if the transit benefit reverts to $125 while the parking benefits stays at $245, the federal tax code will distort individual’s choices in a way that increases congestion, time spent in traffic, and wear and tear on the roads.Under existing federal law, employers can offer their employees an option of up to $245/month in pre-tax parking or transit benefits. This tax credit directly benefits American commuters and their families. Businesses have also enjoyed a tax break from this commuter benefit. In 2010, participating transit riders across the country saved their bosses about $300 million in payroll taxes.The Commuter Benefits Work for Us Coalition is composed of employers, public transportation agencies, national associations, benefits providers, vanpool providers, and others who share a common interest in using the transit benefit as a tool to provide commuters with options.
08.29.2013	Today, Congressman Jim McGovern joined Congresswoman Barbara Lee and 52 other Members of Congress on a letter to President Obama condemning the reported use of chemical weapons in Syria and calling for full congressional debate and appropriate response. The letter comes on the heels of rumors surrounding a military strike in Syria.The letter reads, in part: “While we understand that as Commander in Chief you have a constitutional obligation to protect our national interests from direct attack, Congress has the constitutional obligation and power to approve military force, even if the United States or its direct interests (such as its embassies) have not been attacked or threatened with an attack. As such, we strongly urge you to seek an affirmative decision of Congress prior to committing any U.S. military engagement to this complex crisis.“We must learn the lessons of the past. Lessons from Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, and others,” said Congresswoman Lee. “We must recognize that what happens in Syria does not stay in Syria; the implications for the region are dire.”The letter further calls for U.N. inspectors to complete their assessments of the existence of the use of chemical weapons, as well as denounces the human rights violations taking place.A copy of the letter can be seen here.
08.26.2013	"If those reports are confirmed, the international community must be united in its response to these grave human rights violations." share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern statement on reported use of chemical weapons in Syria“I am deeply troubled by reports that the Assad regime may have used chemical weapons against its own people. If those reports are confirmed, the international community must be united in its response to these grave human rights violations. That response must pay special attention to avoiding additional civilian casualties to an already-suffering civilian population. We must also remain very cautious about military intervention in light of the terrible price our soldiers and their families have already paid in Iraq and Afghanistan.”
08.15.2013	United States Senator Elizabeth Warren, U.S. Representative and Senator-Elect Edward Markey, and U.S. Representatives James McGovern and William Keating today announced the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded $1.97 million to Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and Tufts University for research projects in science and engineering. share: f t United States Senator Elizabeth Warren, U.S. Representative and Senator-Elect Edward Markey, and U.S. Representatives James McGovern and William Keating today announced the National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded $1.97 million to Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, and Tufts University for research projects in science and engineering.“These awards from the National Science Foundation are a testament to the great research work underway here in MA,” said Senator Warren. “Massachusetts is a national leader in science and technology, and this critical federal funding will help encourage discovery and innovation.”"Massachusetts' tradition of innovation starts with our commitment to the power of research and science,”said Rep. and Senator-Elect Markey. “These grants will help keep the Bay State as the leader in the search for the latest inventions, cures, and discoveries."“WPI is on the cutting edge of some of the most important research going on in the country today,” said Rep. McGovern. “I’m pleased that the NSF is recognizing some of their more innovative clean energy work with this federal funding.”“Southeastern Massachusetts has solidified its place as a national hub of new technology and research,” said Rep. Keating, who represents the South Coast, South Shore, Cape, and Islands. “These grants are yet another demonstration of the cutting-edge work done by the Commonwealth’s premier institutions, which are raising the bar and setting the standard for research institutions across the country.”Worcester Polytechnic Institute will receive $303,201 for its project entitled “Hydrokinetic Energy Harvesting Using Tethered Undersea Kites."Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution will receive two separate grants totaling more than $1.36 million. It will receive $606,678 for its project entitled "Collaborative Research: Dissolved Phosphorus Processing by Trichodesmium Consortia: Quantitative Partitioning, Role of Microbial Coordination, and Impact on Nitrogen Fixation.” For the project entitled "Alongshore Advective Acceleration in the Surf Zone," it will receive $762,866.Tufts University will receive $300,000 for its project entitled "Collaborative Research: Identification of Immunomodulatory Microbiota Metabolites."The NSF provides roughly 20 percent of federal support to academic institutions for research and education in science and engineering through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements.
08.07.2013	Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), joined by 73 members of Congress, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to remain committed to defeating Joseph Kony and the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA). share: f t Today, U.S. Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), joined by 73 members of Congress, sent a letter to President Obama urging him to remain committed to defeating Joseph Kony and the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA).Chairman Royce said: “Kony’s removal will help bring relief to a region where this terrorist and war criminal has long-operated without restraint. I applaud Rep. McGovern, my colleagues, and the young people who have mobilized across this country to continue to highlight this conflict. The passage of the Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act put in place an effective strategy to remove the LRA threat. Mr. President, the U.S. must continue pressing this effort until the LRA is defeated once and for all; there can be no let up.”Rep. McGovern said: “Now is not the time to retreat from the effort to rid the world of the LRA. The Obama Administration is to be commended for their work in implementing the strategy outlined in the LRA Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act. That work must continue until the job is done and the innocent people of the region are free from LRA terror. I’m pleased to join with Chairman Royce and with dozens of our bipartisan colleagues on behalf of this important issue.”The signed letter to the President is available HERE.The text of the letter follows:August 7, 2013The PresidentThe White HouseWashington, DC 20500Dear Mr. President:We appreciate your Administration’s continued efforts to implement the strategy to defeat the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) as outlined in the bipartisan Lord’s Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act (P.L. 111-172). We believe it is important that the United States remain committed to working with regional forces to protect civilians until the LRA is defeated once and for all.As you know, the LRA is led by Joseph Kony, a U.S. designated global terrorist and wanted war criminal. Earlier this year, the State Department, through the Rewards for Justice Program, issued a reward for information leading to his arrest, transfer, or conviction. His rebel group has terrorized civilians for nearly three decades, accounting for the deaths of at least 100,000 people and the displacement of more than 400,000, while undermining broader regional stability.The presence of U.S. advisors as well as U.S. logistical and intelligence capabilities has led to an improved security environment in the region. With this essential U.S. support, local security forces have captured two senior LRA commanders. In addition, nearly 15 percent of the LRA’s fighting force has defected. Interviews with recent defectors suggest the group’s morale is at an all time low and that many more fighters are considering defecting. As a result, attacks on civilians by the LRA are steadily declining.Vigorous diplomacy – chiefly from the newly appointed Special Envoy for the African Great Lakes Region and the Democratic Republic of the Congo Russell Feingold – will be critical. However, the continued presence of U.S. Special Forces deployed in the field to advise and assist regional African forces is essential to finishing the job. Simply put, there is no substitute for the expertise of U.S. Special Forces.Ultimately, within the limits of available resources, the scale and duration of the U.S. advisor deployment and counter-LRA mission should be measured against progress in dismantling the LRA’s command structure, permanently degrading its capacity to continue regenerating through integration of abductees, and improving protection of civilians from LRA attacks.In this respect, we urge you to sustain the current U.S. advise and assist counter-LRA mission.We believe that with U.S. support, local governments can defeat the LRA, a goal which reflects our commitment to work to end atrocities wherever they occur.
08.02.2013	Friday August 02, 2013I ask unanimous consent to address the House for one minute.The Republican Majority has drafted a bill that doubles the level of cuts to Food Stamps over what was included in the Farm Bill that failed to pass this House in June.That’s right – doubles the cuts. More than 50 million people are hungry in this country. 17 million are kids. And the Republicans think cutting $40 billion from the most important program that prevents mass hunger in America is a good thing?They already tried to cut $20 billion from Food Stamps. They failed. Any rational person would say they went too far – we need to compromise. Instead, the Republican leadership decided to double down on the crazy.If House Republicans insist on moving forward with this awful proposal, I will fight it with every ounce of energy I can muster. We should not, we must not, we cannot allow this mean-spirited, cold-hearted bill to pass.I yield back the balance of my time.
08.01.2013	I rise to congratulate Taft Early Learning School in Uxbridge, Massachusetts for being named as a Bronze Award Winner in the USDA Healthier School Challenge. share: f t Thursday August 01, 2013I rise to congratulate Taft Early Learning School in Uxbridge, Massachusetts for being named as a Bronze Award Winner in the USDA Healthier School Challenge. This initiative recognizes those schools enrolled in Team Nutrition that have created healthier school environments through promotion of nutrition and physical activity – a program that is now part of First Lady Michelle Obama’s Let’s Move campaign.To achieve this challenge, Taft applied for and received a salad bar grant which enabled them to offer lots of fresh fruit and vegetable choices every day as a part of lunch. They incorporated more whole grains and beans to the menu. They hired an experienced cook to make this happen and added extra physical activity every day which required the creativity and cooperation of the classroom teachers.I want to congratulate Pricipal Judi Lamarre, Food Service Director Janice Watt, the teachers, administrative staff, students, and parents for their hard work in improving the food, nutrition and exercise programs at Taft Early Learning School. This is a big deal and I’m proud of this important accomplishment.
08.01.2013	"Just when I think that House Republicans can’t get any more short-sighted or cruel, they pull a stunt like this." share: f t Thursday August 01, 2013“Just when I think that House Republicans can’t get any more short-sighted or cruel, they pull a stunt like this. In an attempt to placate the most toxic, Tea Party elements of their conference, they have apparently decided to double down on the crazy. To throw even more families off of the assistance they need. To make hunger even worse than the terrible farm bill we defeated several weeks ago. If House Republicans insist on moving forward with this awful proposal, I will fight it with every ounce of energy I can muster. I urge people across the country to use the August recess to tell their members of Congress that $40 billion in SNAP cuts is absolutely unacceptable.”
07.30.2013	Tuesday July 30, 2013U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today introduced the bipartisan Wounded Warrior Service Dog Act in the House of Representatives.The bill, HR 2847, would create a competitive grant program for nonprofits that train service dogs for use by veterans. It defines the term “assistance dog” to mean a dog specifically trained to perform physical tasks to mitigate the effects of a disability. This bill authorizes $5 million for each of five fiscal years.On a recent visit to the nonprofit National Education for Assistance Dog Services (NEADS) campus in Princeton, MA, Rep. McGovern learned about how service dogs are helping to treat veterans with physical disabilities as well as individuals who suffer from post-traumatic stress. Assistance dogs help service men and women lead more independent lives, assisting with mobility and balance, retrieving and carrying objects, responding to sounds, getting help, and providing social interaction and companionship. Trained dogs also offer many therapeutic benefits to soldiers and veterans with post-traumatic stress by elevating their moods, building confidence, and reducing stress, all of which ease the transition back into civilian life.“With so many veterans returning from war bearing both physical and emotional scars, we must do all we can to provide treatment that works,” Rep. McGovern said. “I was honored to visit NEADS and to see the extraordinary work they do every day. It is my sincere hope that through this program, we can better connect our veterans with service dogs in an effort to ease their transition into civilian life.”The bill has 12 original cosponsors, including U.S. Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC). It has been endorsed by the American Legion.
07.24.2013	For the nineteenth time this year, I rise to talk about my effort to End Hunger Now. Nearly every week this year, I’ve stood on this floor and talked about hunger in America and how we can End Hunger Now. share: f t Wednesday July 24, 2013Mr. Speaker,For the nineteenth time this year, I rise to talk about my effort to End Hunger Now. Nearly every week this year, I’ve stood on this floor and talked about hunger in America and how we can End Hunger Now.Today, I want to talk about a group of people who are fighting hunger around this country. At first, they may seem an unlikely group of anti-hunger advocates. But look deeper and it’s easy to see how their connection to good, healthy food makes them natural allies in our effort to End Hunger Now.M. Speaker, I’m talking about America’s chefs – the culinary artists who cook for all of us whether we’re eating at neighborhood restaurants or fine dining establishments. America’s chefs have recognized that hunger and obesity are problems in America and they know how important access to healthy food is for proper development no matter what age a hungry or malnourished person is.Chefs across this country have rallied behind First Lady Michelle Obama’s Let’s Move Campaign and, especially, the healthy eating component of her campaign. They understand that healthy food is critical for healthy bodies and minds. But what’s less well known is that these same chefs have also picked up the mantle of hunger in America. They realize that hunger and obesity are the opposite sides of the same coin – that it’s possible to be hungry and obese simply because you lack money to buy healthy foods and, in many cases, healthier options including fresh fruits and vegetables simply aren’t available.That’s why these chefs have been working on eliminating food deserts – those areas both urban and rural where there isn’t access to low cost, healthy and nutritious foods. And they’ve been working with food banks and other anti-hunger organizations on ways to provide food to poor and needy Americans. This includes vigorously defending SNAP and the Child Nutrition Programs.One of the great leaders on hunger from the culinary industry is Tom Colicchio, someone I’m proud to call a friend and ally. Tom wears several hats – he’s a successful restaurateur with restaurants across this country from Los Angeles to New York and he’s a television celebrity with his role as judge on Top Chef. But more recently, and more importantly to millions of Americans who may never have the opportunity to eat at one of his restaurants, Tom is an advocate for the hungry and for those who are trying to improve their lives. He was a vocal supporter of the Child Nutrition Reauthorization Act that increased funding for school meals in order to improve the nutritional quality of food served at schools. But he’s also a producer of the documentary “A Place at the Table,” a beautifully filmed, heart wrenching movie about hunger in America. His role in our fight to End Hunger Now cannot be understated and his efforts are needed and appreciated.Then there is my dear friend chef Jose Andres – who brings a passion and a commitment to ending hunger. He has dedicated himself to raising awareness, challenging policy makers and giving back to the community in ways both large and small that have really made a difference to ending hunger in America and around the world.And he’s not alone. Chefs like Mark Murray, Rachel Ray, Bryan Voltaggio, and Charlie Palmer – to name a few – all lend their names, restaurants and themselves to the fight to End Hunger Now. Working through anti-hunger organizations like Share Our Strength, founded and run by my good friend Billy Shore, these chefs are reducing hunger in so many different and unique ways.But it’s not just the famous, celebrity chefs who are helping. Share Our Strength has a program called Cooking Matters where chefs teach low-income families healthier ways to cook food. Together with their Shopping Matters program, where these same families can learn how to navigate their local markets to purchase the healthiest food they can afford, these programs are fighting hunger at local levels. And the chefs involved – from Arkansas to Colorado to Massachusetts – are using their expertise to teach these families the healthiest ways to cook food.I participated in a Cooking Matters class in my hometown of Worcester, Massachusetts. I saw firsthand how chefs taught low-income families how to cook food in healthier ways and not just deep frying them; how, for example, these families can incorporate healthier options including vegetables and lower fat cheeses, for example.Chefs are just one of the non-traditional groups that are out in the real world fighting hunger. They are leading by example. And their actions need to be highlighted not just on the House floor but at the White House – at a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition. Chefs should absolutely be part of such a conference where they can talk about their efforts and ways they can help low-income families improve their cooking and eating habits.These chefs and the organizations they partner with are a key part in our fight to End Hunger Now. I commend them for their dedication and I look forward to working with them in this effort.I yield back the balance of my time.
07.22.2013	Monday July 22, 2013U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) and U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (MA) and Ed Markey (MA) today announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security has awarded nearly $1 million to Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) through the Fire Prevention and Safety Program.According to WPI, the research team led by Professor Brian Meacham will use the 998,446 grant to understand, quantify and address fire performance challenges of green or sustainable buildings as they impact firefighter safety. Researchers will be utilizing the newly constructed “UL Fire Protection Engineering Performance Lab at WPI” in the Gateway II complex for conducting ‘medium-scale’ (‘room-scale’) fire testing of building envelop systems. They anticipate a ‘large-scale’ burn at DFS facilities later in the project. Researchers from the University of Maryland will also take part.“For decades, WPI has been on the cutting edge of fire protection research,” Rep. McGovern said. “This important work has particular meaning for those of us in Central Massachusetts – we have lost too many of our brave firefighters. I’m pleased that the federal government continues to recognize WPI’s excellence.”“WPI is doing great work leading important research projects to support our fire departments,” Sen. Warren said. “This significant grant will help fund vital efforts to make sure firefighters across the Commonwealth can do their jobs safely and protect our communities.”“I congratulate WPI for receiving this grant and for their continued innovative work equipping our brave firefighters with the latest tools to protect our citizens,” Sen. Markey said. Central Massachusetts and all of the Commonwealth will benefit from this critical research being done at WPI.”
07.17.2013	Wednesday, July 17, 2013 Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) joined Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Rep. James McGovern (D-Mass.) in sending a letter to President Obama calling on the Pentagon to stop using cluster munitions with high failure rates. share: f t Wednesday, July 17, 2013Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) joined Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Rep. James McGovern (D-Mass.) in sending a letter to President Obama calling on the Pentagon to stop using cluster munitions with high failure rates.Feinstein in February introduced the Cluster Munitions Civilian Protection Act (S. 419) restricting the use of these munitions. McGovern introduced a companion bill in the House.The letter read: “We write to request that your Administration undertake a review of the Department of Defense’s (DOD) policy on cluster munitions. Rather than waiting until 2018, as is current DOD policy, we believe the U.S. military should immediately halt the use of cluster munitions that have an unexploded ordnance rate of greater than one percent.” It continued:“Cluster munitions are indiscriminate, unreliable and pose an unacceptable danger to U.S. forces and civilians alike. The U.S. government’s cluster munitions policy is outdated and should be immediately reviewed.”Full text of the letter follows:July 17, 2013The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White HouseWashington, D.C. 20500Dear President Obama,We write to request that your Administration undertake a review of the Department of Defense’s (DOD) policy on cluster munitions. Rather than waiting until 2018, as is current DOD policy, we believe the U.S. military should immediately halt the use of cluster munitions that have an unexploded ordnance rate of greater than one percent.In April 2010, in a letter to us, former National Security Advisor Jim Jones committed to reviewing the government’s cluster munitions policy after the Administration completes its review on U.S. landmine policy. The Administration’s landmine policy review was completed in late 2011, yet it has not begun a review of its cluster munitions policy. We therefore request that you undertake such a review expeditiously.As you know, cluster munitions are indiscriminate weapons that cause unintended harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure, in many cases long after the cessation of hostilities. In fact, cluster munitions dropped by U.S. aircraft over Laos during the Vietnam War continue to pose a danger to civilians nearly forty years after the end of that conflict. 8,750 square kilometers in Laos remain riddled with unexploded ordnance, and estimates of annual casualty figures are as high as 300 civilians. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, unexploded submunitions have killed or injured some 11,000 people in Laos, more than 30 percent of whom have been children.Not only do cluster munitions threaten civilians, they have been responsible for many U.S. casualties even when used by U.S. forces. During Operation Desert Storm, U.S.-dropped cluster submunitions caused more U.S. troop casualties than any single Iraqi weapon system. More recently, during the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the U.S. 3rd Infantry Division described cluster munitions as “battlefield losers” because U.S. forces were often forced to advance through areas contaminated with unexploded submunitions.While we continue to advocate for the current congressional restrictions on the export of cluster munitions, we firmly believe that we must do more. DOD should immediately renounce its use of cluster munitions with submunitions that have a failure rate of greater than one percent. That would be an important step in putting the United States on a path to join the international Convention on Cluster Munitions (CCM). Eighteen NATO countries have signed the CCM, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom.Additionally, the June 2008 DOD policy on cluster munitions requires the Services and Combatant Commands to initiate the removal from active inventory all cluster munitions stocks that exceed or do not satisfy operational planning requirements. We ask that you instruct DOD to provide our offices an unclassified report detailing the number of cluster munitions that have been removed from the active stockpile, as well as how many remain, to include a classified annex if necessary.Finally, current DOD policy requires Combatant Commanders to approve the use of cluster munitions that exceed a one percent unexploded ordnance rate. In June 2010, according to media reports, the U.S. may have used cluster munitions in a strike against an al-Qaeda training camp in Yemen, which reportedly killed 14 women, 21 children and 14 alleged members of al-Qaeda. In addition to information on the reduction of U.S. stockpiles, we request that DOD provide detailed information on the use of cluster munitions since the implementation of current DOD policy.Cluster munitions are indiscriminate, unreliable and pose an unacceptable danger to U.S. forces and civilians alike. The U.S. government’s cluster munitions policy is outdated and should be immediately reviewed. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your timely response.Sincerely,Dianne FeinsteinU.S. SenatorPatrick LeahyU.S. SenatorJames McGovernU.S. Representative
07.17.2013	July 17, 2013M. Speaker – eighteen times this year I’ve come to this floor and talked about the need to End Hunger Now. Eighteen times I’ve defended our nation’s anti-hunger programs, discussed the paradox of hunger and obesity, and talked about hunger among the elderly.Over the past few weeks, this House has voted on two versions of a Farm Bill reauthorization. The first was defeated after the Republican leadership overreached not only by cutting the lynchpin of our anti-hunger programs, SNAP – formerly known as food stamps – but also by adding poison pill after poison pill amendment to the bill. Last week, the Republican leadership responded to the stinging defeat of their Farm Bill by stripping out the entire nutrition title while, at the same time, expanding subsidies for highly profitable big agribusinesses. And by the way, the nutrition title not only includes SNAP – it includes, as well, funding for food banks and senior anti-hunger programs.Opponents of SNAP like to focus on the idea that SNAP is fraudulent; not just that some SNAP money is being misspent but that so much is being wasted that we need to drastically reign in the program – regardless of whether SNAP cuts increase hunger in America. We heard these claims time after time during consideration of the two farm bills.Sadly, those who claimed rampant fraud, waste and abuse in SNAP don’t let facts get in the way of their arguments. That’s because SNAP is among the most effective and efficient – if not the most effective and efficient – federally administered programs. I serve on the House Agriculture Committee and I took part in an extensive debate over SNAP during both the Committee mark-up and on the House floor. Not one Member – Democrat or Republican – on the House Agriculture Committee provided sourced, statistical information on fraud, waste and abuse in the SNAP program. No hearings were held on the SNAP program. In fact, I challenged any Member of the Committee to find any federal program that has a lower rate of fraud, waste and abuse. The truth is, no one could answer my challenge.M. Speaker, according to both the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Office of the Inspector General at USDA, the fraud rates for SNAP are at all time lows and are going down. On top of that, USDA continues to pursue instances of fraud, waste and abuse and is prosecuting these cases.Despite the rapid growth in SNAP participation, primarily due to the historic economic recession we’re still recovering from, the error rate for SNAP is also at a record low, according to the latest data available. Specifically, 3 percent of all SNAP benefits represented overpayments, meaning they either went to ineligible households or went to eligible households but in excessive amounts. This means more than 98% of SNAP benefits were issued to eligible households. And the combined error rate – the total error rate that includes both under- and over-payments – reached an all time low in 2011, falling to 3.8 percent.These statistics show just how well SNAP is truly managed. But there’s even more data to consider. In July, the USDA’s Office of the Inspector General issued a report on fraud investigations of USDA programs. It showed that fraud in SNAP is limited, primarily to a few bad actors. It also showed cases of fraud are far greater in other USDA programs.According to this report, 10 cases involving USDA programs were closed in the past two months, and only one of them involved fraud on the part of a SNAP recipient. That’s right, only one case in ten had to do with an individual defrauding SNAP.In fact, half of those cases dealt with improper use of Rural Development funds. The remaining four cases all involved SNAP abuse by retailers, not recipients.While this may seem like an innocuous statistic, it goes to the heart of what opponents claim – that SNAP beneficiaries – poor, hungry working Americans – are lazy and want to steal from the federal government. Nothing could be further from the truth.SNAP provides a lifeline to hungry Americans – whether they are 1, 10, 25, 50, 75 years old or older. And in doing so, SNAP is likely the most effective and efficient program administered by the federal government.M. Speaker, of course we can make SNAP better. We can make it more efficient. We can ensure that even more people get the food they need to prevent hunger in America. But we need to address hunger in a holistic and comprehensive way, including the role SNAP plays in preventing and treating hunger. This is why we need a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition if we’re going to truly reduce hunger and improve nutrition in this country.M. Speaker, attacking SNAP – and demonizing those who rely on it to make ends meet – isn’t just wrong, it’s counterproductive. Arbitrarily cutting SNAP will only make hunger in America worse and it certainly won’t reduce the rates of fraud, waste and abuse. The SNAP program works. While it can always be improved, we can’t simply cut our way to a hunger-free society. We must work together if we’re going End Hunger Now.
07.16.2013	July 16, 2013 Dear President Obama, We write to request that your Administration undertake a review of the Department of Defense’s (DOD) policy on cluster munitions. share: f t July 16, 2013Dear President Obama,We write to request that your Administration undertake a review of the Department of Defense’s (DOD) policy on cluster munitions. Rather than waiting until 2018, as is current DOD policy, we believe the U.S. military should immediately halt the use of cluster munitions that have an unexploded ordnance rate of greater than one percent.In April 2010, in a letter to us, former National Security Advisor Jim Jones committed to reviewing the government’s cluster munitions policy after the Administration completes its review on U.S. landmine policy. The Administration’s landmine policy review was completed in late 2011, yet it has not begun a review of its cluster munitions policy. We therefore request that you undertake such a review expeditiously.As you know, cluster munitions are indiscriminate weapons that cause unintended harm to civilians and civilian infrastructure, in many cases long after the cessation of hostilities. In fact, cluster munitions dropped by U.S. aircraft over Laos during the Vietnam War continue to pose a danger to civilians nearly forty years after the end of that conflict. 8,750 square kilometers in Laos remain riddled with unexploded ordnance, and estimates of annual casualty figures are as high as 300 civilians. According to the International Committee of the Red Cross, unexploded submunitions have killed or injured some 11,000 people in Laos, more than 30 percent of whom have been children.Not only do cluster munitions threaten civilians, they have been responsible for many U.S. casualties even when used by U.S. forces. During Operation Desert Storm, U.S.-dropped cluster submunitions caused more U.S. troop casualties than any single Iraqi weapon system. More recently, during the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the U.S. 3rd Infantry Division described cluster munitions as “battlefield losers” because U.S. forces were often forced to advance through areas contaminated with unexploded submunitions.While we continue to advocate for the current congressional restrictions on the export of cluster munitions, we firmly believe that we must do more. DOD should immediately renounce its use of cluster munitions with submunitions that have a failure rate of greater than one percent. That would be an important step in putting the United States on a path to join the international Convention on Cluster Munitions (CCM). Eighteen NATO countries have signed the CCM, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom.Additionally, the June 2008 DOD policy on cluster munitions requires the Services and Combatant Commands to initiate the removal from active inventory all cluster munitions stocks that exceed or do not satisfy operational planning requirements. We ask that you instruct DOD to provide our offices an unclassified report detailing the number of cluster munitions that have been removed from the active stockpile, as well as how many remain, to include a classified annex if necessary.Finally, current DOD policy requires Combatant Commanders to approve the use of cluster munitions that exceed a one percent unexploded ordnance rate. In June 2010, according to media reports, the U.S. may have used cluster munitions in a strike against an al-Qaeda training camp in Yemen, which reportedly killed 14 women, 21 children and 14 alleged members of al-Qaeda. In addition to information on the reduction of U.S. stockpiles, we request that DOD provide detailed information on the use of cluster munitions since the implementation of current DOD policy.Cluster munitions are indiscriminate, unreliable and pose an unacceptable danger to U.S. forces and civilians alike. The U.S. government’s cluster munitions policy is outdated and should be immediately reviewed. Thank you for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to your timely response.Sincerely,Dianne Feinstein Patrick Leahy James McGovern U.S. Senator U.S. Senator U.S. Representative
07.11.2013	"I am very disappointed, though not surprised, by the Russian judiciary’s unprecedented posthumous conviction of Sergei Magnitsky - a new despicable act in the ordeal of the courageous lawyer." share: f t Thursday, July 11, 2013"I am very disappointed, though not surprised, by the Russian judiciary’s unprecedented posthumous conviction of Sergei Magnitsky – a new despicable act in the ordeal of the courageous lawyer. It is clear to me and the rest of the international community that the posthumous trial and its verdict have been orchestrated by the Russian authorities in order to shift attention from their own misguided and criminal actions and corruption. This awful miscarriage of justice epitomizes the Kremlin’s arrogant disregard for human rights, the rule of law, and the basic dignity of its own citizens. Today I stand in support of Sergei Magnitsky's family and with those who continue to oppose an abusive regime."
07.10.2013	July 10, 2013 M. Speaker, Nearly every week that this House has been in session this year, I’ve come to the floor to talk about the need to End Hunger Now. Fourteen speeches later, I still hear from people who doubt that hunger is a problem in the 21st century in the richest, most prosperous nation in the world. share: f t Wednesday July 10, 2013U.S. Representative James P. McGovernStatement on rural hunger July 10, 2013M. Speaker,Nearly every week that this House has been in session this year, I’ve come to the floor to talk about the need to End Hunger Now. Fourteen speeches later, I still hear from people who doubt that hunger is a problem in the 21st century in the richest, most prosperous nation in the world.Well, M. Speaker, I hope anyone who doubts that we have a hunger problem in America has a chance to read the article by Eli Saslow in Sunday’s Washington Post titled “In rural Tennessee, a new way to help hungry children: A bus turned bread truck.”It’s a heart wrenching story of hunger – where children of all ages have trouble getting enough food in the summer months in rural Tennessee. It breaks your heart.The article may focus on a small area in rural Tennessee, but it really tells the story about the 50 million hungry Americans in this country and, more specifically, the 17 million kids who are hungry in this country.And the blame shouldn’t be cast on these poor Americans who are doing their best to make ends meet. Consider the Laghren family, portrayed in this article. Jennifer, a mother of five, works full time as a cook at a nursing home. Yet her kids don’t have enough to eat because Jennifer only makes $8 an hour. SNAP helps during the school year when the kids get to eat two meals a day at school – combined these five kids, ranging from 14 years old to 9 months old, ate a total of 40 free meals and snacks at school a week – but there’s very little help during the summer months when school is out of session. While the $593 food stamp allotment lasted throughout the month during the school year, Jennifer only had $73 in food stamps left with 17 days to go in the month she was interviewed for the article. And if that weren’t enough to convince people about this ugly side of hunger, consider this heartbreaking paragraph from the article:“Desperation had become their permanent state, defining each of their lives in different ways. For Courtney, it meant she had stayed rail thin, with hand-me-down jeans that fell low on her hips. For Taylor, 14, it meant stockpiling calories whenever food was available, ingesting enough processed sugar and salt to bring on a doctor’s lecture about obesity and early-onset diabetes, the most common risks of a food-stamp diet. For Anthony, 9, it meant moving out of the trailer and usually living at his grandparents’ farm. For Hannah, 7, it meant her report card had been sent home with a handwritten note of the teacher’s concerns, one of which read: ‘Easily distracted by other people eating,’ For Sarah, the 9-month old baby, it meant sometimes being fed Mountain Dew out of the can after she finished her formula, a dose of caffeine that kept her up at night.”This is all taking place in rural Tennessee. That’s right, M. Speaker, hunger doesn’t just exist in urban areas. According to USDA statistics, rural areas are poorer than urban areas. And according to the latest USDA data, households in rural areas were more likely to be food insecure. While 14.9% of all households were food insecure in 2011, 15.4 % of households in rural areas were food insecure.And let’s look at the SNAP statistics. While 16 percent of all Americans live in nonmetropolitan areas, 21 percent of SNAP beneficiaries live there. 10 percent of the rural population relies on SNAP, compared to 7 percent of the urban population. Children under 18 make up 25 percent of the rural population, but they are 40 percent of the rural population using SNAP.These statistics show empirically that hunger is a problem in rural America. Sunday’s article paints a terrible and disturbing picture about hunger in rural America. Together, they show why we must commit ourselves to End Hunger Now.That’s why it is so disturbing to me that so many of my Republican friends seem hell-bent on cutting huge amounts from the SNAP program – literally throwing millions of Americans off the program. It shows a stunning ignorance of current reality and it shows a callousness that, quite frankly, is beneath this institution. I urge all my colleagues – Democrats and Republicans – to reject any assault on SNAP.M. Speaker, we have an opportunity to End Hunger Now but we must take it. We need leadership – White House leadership – to get this done. We need the White House to host a Conference on Food and Nutrition. We need the President to bring the best and brightest minds from every corner of this nation together, lock everyone in a room and direct them to come up with a plan. It’s not hard, but we need to find the political will to End Hunger Now. This issue needs to be more of a priority.I yield back the balance of my time.
06.28.2013	Friday June 28, 2013U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) today urged House Speaker John Boehner to not recess the House for the 4th of July District Work Period until the issue of student loan interest rates is resolved.In a letter to the speaker (attached), Rep. McGovern notes that rates for students and their families are schedule to double on July 1. "Although summer has just begun, families throughout Massachusetts are planning for the coming school year," Rep. McGovern said. "The last thing these hard-working families need is more uncertainty about the cost of borrowing for college. I hope the Speaker keeps the House in session until this urgent issue is addressed."
06.28.2013	Worcester – The Massachusetts Port Authority (Massport) today announced a $486,000 grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to reimburse Worcester Regional Airport for the removal of trees and other vegetation along the airport’s runway ends. “I’m glad Worcester Regional Airport is receiving this FAA grant to support Massport's efforts. This is great news for Worcester and all of Central Massachusetts,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren. “With commercial flights resuming in just a few months, the Worcester airport will play an increasingly important role promoting economic growth throughout the region. Investments in infrastructure such as these transportation grants show how the federal government can be a strong partner for the Commonwealth."In 2011, Massport developed a comprehensive five-year vegetation management plan that identifies vegetation that could pose a hazard to aircraft. The plan was approved by the Worcester and Leicester Conservation Commissions with vegetation removal taking place this past winter. Total costs for this phase was approximately $900,000 with Massport’s share being $414,000. Last year the FAA contributed an initial $400,000 with Massport contributing $334,000.“Serving the second fastest growing county in the Commonwealth, Worcester Regional Airport is critical to the expansion of transportation infrastructure in central Massachusetts,” said Senator William “Mo” Cowan. “As the area continues to grow, the FAA’s grant provides essential funding for Massport’s development of a safe, convenient and efficient alternative to Logan airport. This smart investment of federal dollars will spur economic growth in the region and maintain safe and secure travels for our citizens.”In 2010 Massport acquired the airport from the city of Worcester and has since invested $10 million to strengthen its basic infrastructure with another $40 million contemplated to meet FAA guidelines and to improve its landing system.“This federal funding for capital improvements at Worcester Regional Airport is welcome news,” Rep. Jim McGovern said. “With the upcoming resumption of commercial service at the airport in November, it is vital that we continue to improve the infrastructure at the facility. I look forward to continuing to work with Massport, local officials and my federal colleagues to make Worcester Regional Airport a success.”Massport is moving forward with a parallel taxiway and installing a Category III instrument landing system at the airport. Both are needed for the long-term growth of the facility and to make a safe facility even safer.“We are very grateful to our Congressional Delegation for their longstanding support of Worcester Airport whether that’s protecting our control tower from budget cuts; championing new passenger service or securing much needed federal funds to maintain the safety and integrity of the airspace,” said Massport Executive Director Thomas P. Glynn. “Worcester Airport is essential to the economic growth of central Massachusetts and to provide an alternative to Logan for passengers from the I-495 ring and further west.”Starting in November JetBlue Airways will begin offering one flight daily between Worcester Airport and Orlando and another daily flight to Ft. Lauderdale, Florida on 100-seat Embraer 190 aircraft. Massport’s Air Service Incentive Program for Worcester Airport allows the airline to participate in cooperative marketing efforts with the Authority and receive rebates on airport fees and charges for two years. Massport offers the Air Service Incentive Program to allow Worcester to compete with other airports vying for passenger service. Massport offers a similar program at Boston Logan International Airport to attract new international service.Rectrix Aviation Services will soon start construction on its new fixed-base operator facility. A fixed-base operator is the primary provider of support services to general aviation aircraft and offers services such as aircraft parking and fueling, maintenance and hangar facilities at an airport. Rectrix’s Worcester facility will include a regional aircraft maintenance facility that is expected to establish the airport as a destination for aircraft maintenance. Rectrix will invest approximately $6.7 Million to develop 27,000 square feet of hangar and office space at Worcester Airport.At its peak in 1989, Worcester airport served more than 340,000 people and between 2009 and 2012, 250,000 people chose Worcester Airport. Worcester Regional Airport serves Worcester County, the second fastest growing county in Massachusetts, along with the Boston Metro West region and the bustling Interstate 495 corridor. A Massachusetts Department of Transportation economic impact study found that Worcester Regional Airport contributes $51.5 million to the regional economy.You can find Worcester Regional Airport on Twitter at www.twitter.com/flyworcesterand on Facebook at www.facebook.com/WorcesterRegionalAirport.The Massachusetts Port Authority (Massport) owns and operates Boston Logan International Airport, public terminals in the Port of Boston, Hanscom Field and Worcester Regional Airport. Massport is a financially self-sustaining public authority whose premier transportation facilities generate more than $8 billion annually, and enhance and enable economic growth and vitality in New England. No state tax dollars are used to fund operations or capital improvements at Massport facilities. For more information please visit massport.com.
06.27.2013	Thursday June 27, 2013M. Speaker, I rise once again to address the House on the need to End Hunger Now.This is the 14th time I’ve done so this year.Next week, the Members of this House will return home to their districts for the 4th of July District Work Period. There will be parades and fireworks and picnics for all of us, but for too many of our neighbors, there will be no such festivities.They will be too busy working two or three jobs just to make ends meet.They will be worrying about their children, who during these summer months are too often forced to go without enough nutritious food to eat because school is out of session.Because in our country, in the richest, most powerful nation in the history of the world, the reality is that 50 million of our fellow Americans struggle with hunger.I’m also sure that during the 4th of July activities that many Members will be getting quite an earful from the farmers in their districts. Those farmers are facing confusion and uncertainty as they prepare for yet another season without a long-term reauthorization of the Farm Bill. They will wonder why this House of Representatives can’t seem to get its act together.I hope that my colleagues will tell them the truth: That the reason the Farm Bill failed in the House last week is because it would have thrown 2 million people off of the SNAP program. It would have caused over 200,000 children to lose access to the free school breakfast and lunch program. It would have made hunger worse in America.It would have forced struggling Americans to jump through all sorts of hoops like drug testing while not requiring the same of wealthy farmers who receive federal subsidies. It would have not only allowed, but actually ENCOURAGED states to find ways to kick people off of the SNAP program. In short, it would have continued this Republican Majority’s assault on hard-working, struggling, poor people.And for many of us on our side of the, that price was simply too high.As the columnist EJ Dionne wrote after the defeat of the bill, “… this is above all a story about morality: There is something profoundly wrong when a legislative majority is so eager to risk leaving so many Americans hungry. That’s what the bill would have done, and why defeating it was a moral imperative.”M. Speaker, I want a farm bill. Our farmers deserve a bill. I am honored to represent hundreds of small farmers. And I am honored to serve on the Agriculture Committee. I know that Chairman Lucas and Ranking Member Peterson worked incredibly hard to thread a very small needle.If the Republican Leadership really wants a farm bill, they should do away with these Draconian SNAP cuts and bring a bill to the floor that acknowledges the struggles faced by millions of our neighbors. My fear, however, is that they will do just the opposite. That they will go even further, make even deeper cuts to food and nutrition programs, make even more Americans hungry, in a vain attempt to convince some of their more right-wing members to support the bill.Indeed, we see that dynamic at work with the Agriculture Appropriations bill before us this week, a bill that makes drastic cuts to the Women, Infants and Children program.I would also urge the White House, once again, to take an active leadership role on this issue. Last week the Administration issued a veto threat against the Farm Bill because of the devastating SNAP cuts it contained. I welcomed that threat. It was a positive sign.But the Administration needs to do more. They need to convene a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition so that we can get everyone in a room – including farmers – to address the issue of hunger in America.M. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on both side of the aisle to reflect over the next week about where we should go from here. Do we want to live up to the bipartisan tradition of giants like Bob Dole and George McGovern? Do we want to unite to provide a circle of protection around our most vulnerable neighbors? I hope so, M. Speaker.We can do this. We can end hunger now. All we need is the political will.
06.26.2013	"I welcome today's historic Supreme Court rulings that reaffirm the fundamental American right of equal protection under the law. I am especially proud to be from Massachusetts, which led the way in marriage equality. share: f t -I welcome today's historic Supreme Court rulings that reaffirm the fundamental American right of equal protection under the law. I am especially proud to be from Massachusetts, which led the way in marriage equality. As the Court ruled today, the federal government has no business discriminating against couples who are legally married in their own states. We must now continue to work to ensure that committed loving couples - no matter where they live - can enjoy the rights and responsibilities of marriage.-
06.26.2013	"I am extremely disappointed by the Supreme Court's decision in the Shelby County v. Holder voting rights case,which struck down the coverage formula that determines which jurisdictions must clear their voting laws with the federal government. Since 1965, the landmark Voting Rights Act has provided important voter protections against racial discrimination. Congress mustupdate the coverage formula and ensure that we continue our efforts to protect voters and eliminate discrimination at the ballot box." share: f t "I am extremely disappointed by the Supreme Court's decision in the Shelby County v. Holder voting rights case,which struck down the coverage formula that determines which jurisdictions must clear their voting laws with the federal government. Since 1965, the landmark Voting Rights Act has provided important voter protections against racial discrimination. Congress mustupdate the coverage formula and ensure that we continue our efforts to protect voters and eliminate discrimination at the ballot box."
06.25.2013	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today that his Worcester District Office will be relocating from 34 Mechanic Street to 12 East Worcester Street, Suite 1 on July 1. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today that his Worcester District Office will be relocating from 34 Mechanic Street to 12 East Worcester Street, Suite 1 on July 1."This new office location will provide improved access and service for my constituents. I'm thrilled to be part of the ongoing redevelopment of the former Central Supply building and the expansion of Worcester's commercial center."The new location, directly behind the VIA restaurant on Shrewsbury Street, will have reserved parking for constituents. All casework currently handled by the Mechanic Street office will transfer to the East Worcester Street office, and all phone numbers and contact information will remain the same. An open house is scheduled for July 12.Due to the move, the Worcester office will be closed June 26 - July 1. For emergencies, constituents should contact the DC office at 202-225-6101.
06.18.2013	Washington, D.C. - Rep. Justin Amash (R-MI),Chairman of the House Liberty Caucus, and Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee, announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation to address National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance. share: f t NSA Surveillance: Amash, Conyers Introduce Major BillBipartisan Coalition of 33 Members of Congress Propose LIBERT-E ActRep. Justin Amash (R-MI),Chairman of the House Liberty Caucus, and Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), the Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee, announced the introduction of bipartisan legislation to address National Security Agency (NSA) surveillance.H.R. 2399, the Limiting Internet and Blanket Electronic Review of Telecommunications and Email Act (LIBERT-E Act), restricts the federal government's ability under the Patriot Act to collect information on Americans who are not connected to an ongoing investigation. The bill also requires that secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court opinions be made available to Congress and summaries of the opinions be made available to the public.A coalition of 31 Members of Congress joined Conyers and Amash in introducing the bill late Monday. After introduction, Conyers and Amash issued the following statement:-The recent NSA leaks indicate that the federal government collects phone records and intercepts electronic communications on a scale previously unknown to most Americans.-The LIBERT-E Act imposes reasonable limits on the federal government's surveillance. The bill puts some teeth into the FISA court's determination of whether records the government wants are actually relevant to an investigation. It also makes sure that innocent Americans' information isn't needlessly swept up into a government database. LIBERT-E prohibits the type of government dragnet that the leaked Verizon order revealed.-We accept that free countries must engage in secret operations from time to time to protect their citizens. Free countries must not, however, operate under secret laws. Secret court opinions obscure the law. They prevent public debate on critical policy issues and they stop Congress from fulfilling its duty to enact sound laws and fix broken ones.-LIBERT-E lets every congressman have access to FISA court opinions so that Congress can have a more informed debate about security and privacy. And the bill requires that unclassified summaries of the opinions be available to the public so that Americans can judge for themselves the merit of their government's actions.-We are proud to lead a broad, bipartisan coalition that's working to protect privacy. It shouldn't matter whether you're a Democrat or a Republican. Defending the Constitution and protecting Americans' rights should be an effort we all can support.-Rep. James McGovern (D-MA): -I am profoundly concerned about the allegations that government agencies have been secretly collecting the communication records of American citizens - without specific reasons - for the past several years. This is one of the prime reasons I have consistently opposed the Patriot Act: basic inalienable civil rights, such as freedom of speech and protection of personal privacy are sacred, and shouldn't exist under a cloud of government surveillance. I'm pleased to join this bipartisan effort.-The following Members of Congress cosponsored the legislation:Rep. Paul Broun (R-GA)Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA)Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-WA)Rep. John Duncan (R-TN)Rep. William Enyart (D-IL)Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI)Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY)Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA)Rep. Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ)Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ)Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX)Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA)Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC)Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA)Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)Rep. Thomas Massie (R-KY)Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA)Rep. James McDermott (D-WA)Rep. James McGovern (D-MA)Rep. Mike Michaud (D-ME)Rep. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC)Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY)Rep. Beto O'Rourke (D-TX)Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM)Rep. Jared Polis (D-CO)Rep. Trey Radel (R-FL)Rep. Matt Salmon (R-AZ)Rep. Mark Sanford (R-SC)Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ)Rep. Peter Welch (D-VT)Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL)Rep. James McGovern (D-MA): -I am profoundly concerned about the allegations that government agencies have been secretly collecting the communication records of American citizens - without specific reasons - for the past several years. This is one of the prime reasons I have consistently opposed the Patriot Act: basic inalienable civil rights, such as freedom of speech and protection of personal privacy are sacred, and shouldn't exist under a cloud of government surveillance. I'm pleased to join this bipartisan effort.-Rep. James McGovern (D-MA): -I am profoundly concerned about the allegations that government agencies have been secretly collecting the communication records of American citizens - without specific reasons - for the past several years. This is one of the prime reasons I have consistently opposed the Patriot Act: basic inalienable civil rights, such as freedom of speech and protection of personal privacy are sacred, and shouldn't exist under a cloud of government surveillance. I'm pleased to join this bipartisan effort.-Rep. James McGovern (D-MA): -I am profoundly concerned about the allegations that government agencies have been secretly collecting the communication records of American citizens - without specific reasons - for the past several years. This is one of the prime reasons I have consistently opposed the Patriot Act: basic inalienable civil rights, such as freedom of speech and protection of personal privacy are sacred, and shouldn't exist under a cloud of government surveillance. I'm pleased to join this bipartisan effort.-
06.10.2013	Today, Rep. Michael G. Grimm (R-NY) was joined by Reps. James P. McGovern (D-MA), Peter T. King (R-NY), and Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) in introducing the Transit Parity Act. The bipartisan bill will maintain tax credit parity for drivers and public transportation commuters. Without the fix, commuters taking public transportation will see their tax benefit cut almost in half to $125, while those who drive and park will maintain the current $245 tax benefit.-With rising gas prices and highly congested streets, we should be encouraging New Yorkers to use more public transportation, not push them back into their cars. Without parity, we create an incentive to drive and put an unfair financial burden on New York City's hard-working families and residents who rely daily on public transportation. It is only fair that the pre-tax benefit be made permanently equal, no matter how one commutes to work, and that is why I have introduced the Transit Parity Act,- said Rep. Grimm.-I have long been a proponent of making tax benefit parity for transit commuters a permanent part of the tax code. I am pleased to join with my colleagues in this new, bipartisan legislative effort. It's good for workers and for their employers. Mass transit benefits our environment, reduces wear and tear on our roads and bridges, eases traffic congestion and saves energy. We must continue to look for ways to make commuting by transit as affordable and attractive as commuting by car,- said Rep. McGovern.-Transit parity provides an incentive for millions of working Americans to use mass transportation, which reduces our dependence on foreign oil and eases traffic congestion on our roads. I commend Representative Grimm for introducing this critical legislation and look forward to continue working with my colleagues on this matter,- said Rep. King.-A system where workers have access to myriad transportation options creates more livable, healthy, and productive communities. By helping protect commuters' choices, and preserving equity between those who drive and those who take transit or vanpool, we can avoid a tax increase on millions of families, and continue to give workers the option to use a transportation mode that increases economic productivity, reduces congestion, and is friendlier to the environment,- said Rep. Blumenauer.On January 1, 2014, almost 3 million of America's commuters will face a tax increase unless Congress acts. Transportation is the second largest household expense for American families, and currently Congress provides a tax credit to commuters to help account for parking and transit costs. However, without congressional action, on January 2th, the cost for those who use the transit benefit will practically double. While the parking benefit will remain at $245 a year, the transit benefit will drop to $125, leaving families and commuters with up to $1,440 a year in additional tax burden.Under existing federal law, employers can offer their employees an option of up to $245/month in pre-tax parking or transit benefits. This tax credit directly benefits American commuters and their families. Businesses have also enjoyed a tax break from this commuter benefit. In 2010, participating transit riders across the country saved their bosses about $300 million in payroll taxes.In addition to increasing commuters taxes, if the transit benefit reverts to $125 while the parking benefits stays at $245, the federal tax code will distort individual's choices in a way that increases congestion, time spent in traffic, and wear and tear on the roads.The Transit Parity Act equalizes the transit and parking benefits by capping both at $220. This makes the change deficit neutral, and ensures that our tax code is fair and applies equally to all consumers.###
06.07.2013	I am profoundly concerned about the allegations that government agencies have been secretly collecting the communication records of American citizens for the past several years. share: f t U.S. Rep. McGovern's statement on the NSA "I am profoundly concerned about the allegations that government agencies have been secretly collecting the communication records of American citizens for the past several years. This is one of the prime reasons I have consistently opposed the Patriot Act: basic inalienable civil rights, such as freedom of speech and protection of personal privacy are sacred, and shouldn't exist under a cloud of government surveillance."
06.05.2013	People ask me all the time - is it even possible to End Hunger in America? M. Speaker - the answer is a definitive yes. share: f t Statement of Congressman James P. McGovern June 5, 2013 M. Speaker - this is my 13th End Hunger Now speech this year. Thirteen times I've stood on this floor and talked about hunger in America. Thirteen times I've come here and defended the anti-hunger safety net - the federal programs that provide food to 50 million Americans. Thirteen times I've stood here and talked about hunger as a health issue. Thirteen times I've said we need to set a goal to End Hunger Now. People ask me all the time - is it even possible to End Hunger in America? M. Speaker - the answer is a definitive yes. The truth is we've done this before. That's right, M. Speaker, we nearly eradicated hunger in America in the 1970s. It wasn't easy, but the concept was simple - the political leadership in Washington made a commitment to end hunger in this country. In the 1970s, Congress and the President expanded the Food Stamp Program, created the WIC program, and expanded the school meal programs. They found the political courage to do what's right - to step up when the private sector couldn't do and end hunger in America. Yet that effort was lost when these programs were slashed in the 1980s. Hunger came back with a vengeance. The number of hungry people skyrocketed - in fact it's been rising steadily since the Reagan presidency. These programs weren't just cut, they were demonized. Food assistance became a pejorative to some. And we see the results of those years of demonizing these programs today. The truth is SNAP works. Food assistance works. People on food assistance are able to feed themselves and their families. They're able to use money they might have had to use for food for other purposes - rent, utilities, medical costs, school supplies for their kids, and transportation costs, just to name a few. But that's not all. The money spent on food from these programs is spent in grocery stores. In fact, one report showed that approximately $70 billion was spent in grocery stores just from SNAP alone. That's a lot of money going through our economy when our damaged economy needed it most. These programs work, M. Speaker. But what's the response from this Republican controlled House? Are they strengthening a program that is already among the least fraudulent, most efficient and effective federal programs? No. In two weeks this House will consider a bill to cut $20 billion from SNAP - a bill that will take food away from 2 million Americans; a bill that will take 210,000 poor kids off the free school meal program; a bill that will reduce the monthly SNAP by $90 for another 850,000 people. And that's on top of the automatic, across-the-board cuts to SNAP that will take place in November. That's cold hearted and mean spirited and I will fight these cuts. We should be praising this program for keeping people from starving. We should be strengthening it and making it work better, not neutering it and taking food away from millions of poor families. SNAP works. But don't take my word for it. Listen to the words of Trish Thomas Henley, someone who had to rely on SNAP to make ends meet. She says, quote, -In 1993, I was a single parent with a 3-year old and an 18-month old. Even though I was working full-time, making $8.50 an hour as an administrative assistant, I could not afford to pay for food, housing and day care. I went on food stamps. I remember the shame I felt every time I stood at the register while other shoppers waited for me to count out my food stamps. The only way out of the cycle of poverty and off of aid was to go to college. I applied and, at the age of 25, began my undergraduate career. I had to give up my full-time job to go to school. Instead, I worked three part-time jobs. I would never, ever have been able to get through school without food stamps, Pell Grants and student loans. It took a village and government aid. I was not a victim. I did not feel entitled. I, then as now, felt immensely grateful that I lived at a moment when my government chose to invest in me. It has been a smart investment. I am greateful that because of this investment I am now able to contribute and live up to my full potential.- - end quote. Today, Trish is a professor at the University of Cincinnati. You see, M. Speaker, a little investment goes a long way. I ask unanimous consent to insert in the record at the end my remarks the column written by Trish entitled -Food Stamps do work.- SNAP works. It worked in the 1970s as the Food Stamp program. It worked for Trish in the 1990s. And it's working now. This is not the time to cut SNAP. Now is the time to renew our efforts and pledge to End Hunger Now.
06.04.2013	On the 24th anniversary of the violent suppression of demonstrations in Tienanmen Square, Congressman McGovern stands with the valiant protestors. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's statement on the 24th Anniversary of Tiananmen Square"On the 24th anniversary of the violent suppression of demonstrations in Tienanmen Square, Congressman McGovern stands with the valiant protestors. Their brave actions for freedom and opportunity reverberate today, as people throughout the world, from Tahir Square to Pearl Square, continue to demand that their leaders uphold human rights. To this day, the Chinese Government has not fully accounted for the protesters killed, detained, or missing, and it continues to harass those who participated in the protests. The Chinese Government has done all in its power to erase June 4th of 1989, the protesters, and their sacrifice from China's historical memory. By honoring this day, the world community keeps the memory of Tiananmen Square alive, and gives voice to those who have been brutally silenced. As impunity for the massacre at Tiananmen Square persists, and as the human rights situation in China continues to deteriorate, Congressman McGovern remains committed to defend and promote the universal human rights of all Chinese citizens."
05.31.2013	The Worcester Regional Transit Authority's (WRTA) new transportation hub is opening for business. On May 28, federal, state and local officials will cut the ribbon on a multi-million dollar federal and state funded intermodal project that gives a centralized transportation facility and enhanced transportation system to the City of Worcester and the surrounding region. Officials are touting this project as a testament of the investment to regional transit authorities by the state and federal governments."By working across all levels of government and with our partners in the public and private sectors, we are building a better downtown in Worcester that will benefit the city and surrounding communities," said Lieutenant Governor Timothy Murray. "In doing so, we have also strategically invested in public transportation to help residents and businesses get from Point A to Point B in and around the city. The grand opening of the WRTA's new transportation hub will not only offer more transportation options but also open the doors for increased activity and future economic development in Worcester's growing downtown district.""Today marks the celebration of an important milestone for Worcester and the region. This new transportation hub will provide for easier and more convenient access for riders, and will play a key role in assisting the City in creating new, smart development opportunities," said Senator Harriett Chandler."About a decade ago, several members of the board had a vision. This vision is now coming true. We weren't sure that this would ever happen, but one of our goals is being realized. Excited would be an understatement. We are confident that the new hub will be very beneficial to our passengers," said William Lehtola, Chairman of the WRTA Advisory Board."The WRTA is delighted to offer a new state-of-the-art building to the community. Not only is our new building integrated into the city's urban core and design, but it positions the WRTA to offer a more robust service to its riders by leveraging our new technology, energy efficient vehicles, on-site customer service and amenities, along with seamless transportation options provided at Union Station, the region's multimodal transportation center," said WRTA Administrator Stephen O'Neil. "It is an exciting time for transportation advancements not only in Worcester, but for the betterment of the entire region."The new hub stands adjacent to Union Station, with access to the commuter rail, Greyhound and Peter Pan buses, and bike paths, giving riders complete access to all modes of public transportation. It will now be the WRTA's starting and ending points for all fixed bus routes and offers riders a 14,000 square foot facility that houses the WRTA administrative offices, a customer service center, public waiting area, restroom facilities, coffee shop, ticket vending machines, covered bus bays, and eight WRTA bus slips."This new WRTA hub stands as a monument to what we can accomplish when local, state, and federal officials work together to satisfy a public need. Not only will this new facility serve as an improved, more functional hub for regional transportation service, connecting the WRTA system with Commuter Rail, Amtrak, and commercial bus service, it will also serve a crucial role in the ongoing economic redevelopment of downtown Worcester," said U.S. Congressman James McGovern. "The ‘big idea' behind CitySquare has always been to connect and include several neighborhoods - Main Street, North Main Street, the Canal District, and Shrewsbury Street - into a ‘new' expanded downtown. This transportation hub, at the center of those neighborhoods, and at the foot of the newly reopened Front Street, will be a keystone in opening access to those areas - very practically connecting people from outside and inside Worcester with all our community has to offer."It also offers the latest technology, including Wi-Fi access, and enables riders to view electronic signs with bus route information and audio announcements. It is entirely handicap accessible and incorporates green building energy design concepts."The new WRTA Hub will provide riders with excellent amenities that will likely entice more people to ride. Providing one location to transfer, rather than having to crisscross the common area to catch another bus is one such amenity. Another is having a sheltered wait area where riders can grab a snack or a cup of coffee. The WRTA is also helping riders who want to transfer to the MBTA commuter rail and intercity buses. They are even providing bike racks and will be connected into the Blackstone River Greenway bike trail once the northern end is completed over the next couple of years," said Mary Ellen Blunt, Transportation Program Manager for the Central Massachusetts Regional Planning Commission."The Governor and Lieutenant Governor see transportation investments as an essential component in creating jobs and building a strong economy," said Massachusetts Department of Transportation Secretary & CEO Richard A. Davey, "and the new WRTA transportation hub is a perfect example. This is great news for Worcester commuters and visitors, and I am especially pleased that this project will encourage travel across all modes of transportation."The building was designed by Wendel Duchscherer Architects & Engineers, PC in Buffalo, NY."We see this project through a number of filters. First and foremost, a home and anchor for WRTA. Secondly, and equally important, it provides both an architectural transition from the historic Union Station to the new developments to the west, as well as a pedestrian connection among these three elements focusing on the green space to the north of the new structure as a key, passive, pedestrian connector. Particularly at night, the building will be a ‘beacon' reminding us of these elements of urban connectivity," said David C. Duchscherer.Consigli Construction Co. of Milford, MA was the construction manager on the project, which began 14 months ago. Skanska USA Building was the project manager."Consigli is thankful for the opportunity to work with a great team on such an important project for the WRTA. As a group, the team was able to overcome multiple obstacles and deliver a high quality facility that all can be proud of," said Ryan Jennette, Project Manager for Consigli."Skanska is thrilled to join the WRTA in celebrating the grand opening of Worcester's new, energy efficient Union Station Bus Transfer Center," said Paul Hewins, General Manager and Executive Vice President of Skanska USA Building's New England region. "It has been a great partnering with the WRTA, local workers and subcontractors in and around Worcester to provide its residents with a more efficient means of transportation that also reflects Skanska's commitment to green building and design.""Our strategic investments and defined progress in mass-transit speaks to a bright future - for it is all about ease and affordability to connect - to and from work, to and from home and to and from the region and the world. We have to continue to position our City and Central MA region for this reality. The addition of the Worcester Regional Transit Authority's Main Transfer Station at Washington Square, close to our Union Station Intermodal Hub, is another great step forward. It is a state-of-the-art, customer-friendly facility, where a patron can access all WRTA's routes or walk into Union Station for all our other intermodal offerings - with connections into our Downtown, our neighborhoods, our schools, our businesses, our region and beyond. Great job by the WRTA Board, its Director and all involved to make this step possible," said Worcester City Manager Michael O'Brien.
05.31.2013	"I am deeply disappointed that the State Department has failed to remove Cuba from the list of state sponsors of terrorism. share: f t For Immediate Release: May 31, 2013 STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ON CUBA -I am deeply disappointed that the State Department has failed to remove Cuba from the list of state sponsors of terrorism, and disappointed in this report. It is in our national interest that the annual report on terrorism and state sponsors of terrorism be a meaningful document. The flimsy reasons outlined in the report makes a mockery of the document, diminish its value, and undermine US global leadership. Once again, unfortunately, domestic politics has trumped sensible foreign policy.-
05.24.2013	Congressman Jim McGovern released the following statement today on the appointment of Jon Niedzielski of Amherst as Massachusetts State Director for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm Services Agency: share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 24, 2013 U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern on appointment of Niedzielski to Farm Services Agency Congressman Jim McGovern released the following statement today on the appointment of Jon Niedzielski of Amherst as Massachusetts State Director for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Farm Services Agency: -Jon is an exceptional choice to serve in this key role. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I know how important it is to have strong, effective leadership at the FSA that understands the needs of farmers and their communities. -I recently inherited a good deal of former Congressman John Olver's district in redistricting, and I see on a daily basis Jon's fingerprints on so many successful projects and partnerships across Western Massachusetts. Jon is a skilled leader and insightful public servant, well-respected around the Commonwealth, and I believe that he is uniquely qualified for this position.-
05.22.2013	I have never known a harder-working, more dedicated servant of the people than Tim Murray. For two decades, he has been a tireless champion of the Commonwealth and Worcester tenaciously focused on one simple goal: making life better for the citizens of Massachusetts. It is a difficult decision for a true public servant like Tim to transition from such an important part of his life. I respect and support his choice, and am especially happy for his family as he takes this next step.-Throughout his whole career, Tim has pushed a vision of what Worcester can become, and he has been a driving force behind much of the economic development and major projects in our city and in the region. We are all fortunate that he'll be able to continue to push that vision, and lead our business community to new heights as the head of the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce. I look forward to working closely with my friend over the coming years.-
05.16.2013	For nearly three decades, survivors pursued justice in the face of threats and continued repression, honored the memories of their loved ones and lost communities. share: f t For Immediate Release: May 16, 2013 STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ON THE CONVICTION OF JOSE EFRAIN RIOS MONTT -The historic and unprecedented conviction by a national court of former Guatemalan General and President José Efrain Ríos Montt for genocide and crimes against humanity is due to the courage of many Guatemalan and international human rights defenders, judges, lawyers, court experts and religious leaders. But more than anyone, it is a testament to the courage of the Mayan-Ixil people. For nearly three decades, survivors pursued justice in the face of threats and continued repression, honored the memories of their loved ones and lost communities, bravely told their stories and testified in court. The Guatemalan court's ruling demonstrates that everyone is subject to justice, and even the most vulnerable communities can seek and achieve justice for heinous crimes committed against them. Impunity can be broken. Victims and survivors can change the course of history for their nation and the world.-
05.16.2013	Dear Mr. President, I write to express my strong support for your April 30th statement renewing your commitment to close the detention center at the Guantánamo Naval Base in Cuba. share: f t Dear Mr. President,I write to express my strong support for your April 30th statement renewing your commitment to close the detention center at the Guantánamo Naval Base in Cuba. I recognize the challenges facing you in closing Guantánamo, but it is necessary in order to restore America's standing as a nation that respects and adheres to the rule of law, including U.S. and international human rights and humanitarian law.Closing the detention center at Guantánamo, once and for all, will require legislative, administrative, judicial, diplomatic and other measures to prosecute, with full respect for the right to due process, the individuals being held in detention, or to provide for their immediate release or transfer to a third country. I regret that Congress has been part of the problem, not part of the solution, in resolving these matters in an efficient, judicious and secure manner. There are, however, a number of actions that you and the executive branch can take to advance your commitment to close the detention facility, and I encourage you to do so. These include:Appointing someone at the White House to serve as your personal designee and -point person- on Guantánamo, who wakes up every day with the mandate to complete the expeditious transfer of detainees cleared of all charges to other countries, bring to trial those detainees who have been charged with crimes against the United States, and close the detention facility.Transferring the 86 detainees who have been cleared by the U.S. government of all charges and determined not to be a threat to U.S. security to their countries of origin and/or third party countries so that they may be reunited with their families and restored to civilian life.Demanding and ensuring that the practices and procedures for forced feeding used at Guantánamo detention facilities are the same as those used by the federal Bureau of U.S. Prisons, so that they comply with the highest standards of medical ethics and do not constitute any violation regarding the use of cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment.Initiating prosecutions in U.S. federal courts against those detainees charged with crimes against the security of the United States and whose cases are most ready for prosecution and trial, so that examples of rule of law and due process may be established for these detainees in our civilian courts.I do not make these suggestions lightly; I know that some may be more difficult than others to undertake, including from a political point of view. But they are all doable, and they can all be initiated immediately and completed expeditiously. Some, such as completing the transfer of the 86 detainees cleared of all charges, may require lifting current self-imposed bans on transfers to Yemen; others, such as bringing cases ready for trial to U.S. federal civilian courts may require the use of a national security waiver. These actions are well within the capacity of your office and the offices of the U.S. Attorney General and Secretary of State.I further recommend that attention be given to basic humanitarian issues related to long-term indefinite detention without charge that have disturbed, and sometimes inflamed, U.S. and international opinion about Guantánamo. I strongly encourage you to determine how best the U.S. might provide appropriate reparations and psycho-social support to those 86 detainees in particular who have been cleared of all charges against the United States, and yet were held for more than a decade, isolated from their families and culture, and in a constant state of uncertainty about their future. We have an opportunity not only to set the record straight, but an obligation to establish a high standard for their humane reinsertion back into civilian life and to mitigate any potential negative outcomes related to their release and return to their homelands or third party countries. I have great faith that our U.S. agencies, in consultation and partnership with the countries receiving these detainees, can determine appropriate reparations and reinsertion support, but I would also strongly encourage you to consult directly with the appropriate OAS, U.N., ICRC and non-governmental (NGO) experts on establishing these mechanisms.Once again, Mr. President, I thank you for your renewed commitment to close the detention facility at Guantánamo Naval Base. If I can be of any help or service in achieving this goal, please do not hesitate to call upon me.Sincerely,James P. McGovernMember of Congresscc: Thomas E. Donilon, National Security Advisor, National Security CouncilJohn F. Kerry, Secretary of State, Department of StateCharles -Chuck- T. Hagel, Secretary of Defense, Department of DefenseEric H. Holder, Jr., U.S. Attorney General, Department of Justice
05.14.2013	M. Speaker - This is farm bill week. Today, the Senate Agriculture Committee is marking up their version of the Farm Bill and tomorrow the House Agriculture Committee will do the same. Although one bill is written by a Republican and the other is written by a Democrat, these two bills have one thing in common - they make hunger worse in America. share: f t M. Speaker -This is farm bill week. Today, the Senate Agriculture Committee is marking up their version of the Farm Bill and tomorrow the House Agriculture Committee will do the same. Although one bill is written by a Republican and the other is written by a Democrat, these two bills have one thing in common - they make hunger worse in America.There are 50 million hungry Americans - 17 million are kids. Yet the Senate is going mark up a bill that cuts over $4 billion from SNAP, our nation's main anti-hunger program. But that cut pales in comparison to the cuts included in H.R. 1947, the House Farm Bill.M. Speaker, tomorrow we are going to markup a bill that includes $20 billion in SNAP cuts. $20 billion, M. Speaker. At a time when we have 50 million hungry Americans. At a time when we have 17 million hungry kids.M. Speaker, we were elected to solve problems and help people; not make things worse. We were elected to help make lives better. We were elected to do the right thing.Cutting SNAP - making it harder for hungry Americans to put food on their tables - is the wrong thing. Taking $20 billion out of this program will do real harm to Americans who are simply trying to make ends meet.There are some in this House, some on the Agriculture Committee, who say this is about reducing error rates in the program, that this is about getting at fraud. Well, let me remind them that SNAP has one of the lowest error rates - if not the lowest error rates - in the federal government. That is something we should proud of. And it's something we should celebrate.These cuts don't get at fraud. These cuts don't make the program more efficient. These cuts don't help reduce or end hunger in America.No, M. Speaker, the cuts in this bill make things worse.That's because the cuts in this bill will kick 2 million people off of SNAP. That's 2 million hungry Americans who currently rely on SNAP to help feed themselves and their families. That's 2 million low-income Americans who are having trouble making ends meet.These cuts will cause 850,000 households to see their SNAP benefits reduced by $90 a month. $90 a month. That's a big cut for poor families struggling to get by.The cuts in this bill will cause 210,000 children to lose access to their free school meals. These 210,000 poor children currently receive free school meals because their parents can't afford to pay for their meals. But the cuts in this bill will result in 210,000 losing access to free school meals.This bill even cuts the nutrition education program - a program that is designed to help educate SNAP beneficiaries about how to buy and prepare more nutritious food. Imagine cutting this critical nutrition education program while obesity and access to unhealthy food is on the rise.To put this in the proper context, these cuts would come on top of an across-the-board cut in SNAP that every recipient will experience starting on November 1, 2013. Because SNAP has been used as an ATM to offset other worthy programs, a family of four will already be seeing their SNAP benefit cut by an average of $25.So to recap - not only will we see automatic cuts in SNAP this November, The House farm bill will make things worse by cutting $20 billion from the program.This simply cannot stand. Tomorrow, during the Farm Bill markup, I will offer an amendment that will restore these cuts. I hope all my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee will vote for my amendment and, if it fails, I hope they will vote against the Farm Bill.M. Speaker, we can't just say we're going to cut SNAP because it's the biggest and most expensive program in the Farm Bill. We can't just indiscriminately make hunger worse in the name of fiscal austerity. No, M. Speaker, we should look at these programs and ask ourselves are these programs working? Are they doing the job they were designed to do? Are they succeeding or failing? And how can we make them work better?But that's not what we're doing. Do you know how many hearings we've had on SNAP in this Congress? None.That's right, the Agriculture Committee is about to cut $20 billion from SNAP and we haven't had one single hearing. Yet there are 20 new Members of the Agriculture Committee in this Congress. 20 new Members who deserve the right to learn about these issues - including the details of SNAP and the impact of these cuts.M. Speaker, this is not how we should be approaching this program. We should hold hearings, we should ask questions, and we should look at the program in an honest way - and our goal should be to End Hunger Now.Unfortunately, this bill is more about protecting big agribusiness and corporate welfare than it is about protecting hungry Americans who need help today.M. Speaker, we need to do something about hunger in America. I've urged the Administration to host a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition to come up with a plan to End Hunger Now. Hopefully they will act on that soon, but for today and tomorrow we must protect SNAP from needless, unnecessary, and harmful cuts.We must stand for the most vulnerable in our country. And we must End Hunger Now - not make it worse.I yield back the balance of my time.
05.10.2013	Today, the Teamsters, the Truck Safety Coalition, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and representatives of several families who have suffered death and injury as a result of truck crashes, held a news conference marking the re-introduction of legislation that share: f t McGovern joins Teamsters in urging Congress to stop dangerous increases in truck weight and size Today, the Teamsters, the Truck Safety Coalition, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and representatives of several families who have suffered death and injury as a result of truck crashes, held a news conference marking the re-introduction of legislation that would prevent an increase in size and weight allowances for trucks. -Corporate greed is the only thing driving the trucking industry to push reckless legislation that would put heavier and longer trucks on our highways,- said Jim Hoffa, Teamsters General President. -Our members travel the nation's highways every day and know fully the dangers of putting bigger trucks on a highway system already in disrepair. It makes no sense to cause further damage to our highways and bridges when Congress hasn't found a way to fund the much-needed repairs to our crumbling infrastructure.- Currently, federal limitations on truck size and weight are enforced on interstate highways while states are allowed to set the limits on all other roads. The Safe Highways and Infrastructure Protection Act (SHIPA), sponsored by Sen. Frank R. Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), will be re-introduced today and will thwart efforts by some in Congress and at the Department of Transportation to seek further ways to circumvent these restrictions. -The claim that fewer trucks will be an end-product of truck size and weight increases simply isn't true,- Hoffa said. -This is about safety and ensuring as safe a workplace for our driver members on the highways as anyone working on a factory floor.-
05.09.2013	"I am glad that we as a community can finally put this saga behind us, and return our focus to helping the victims of the Boston Marathon bombings and their families to heal." share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's statement on the burial of Tamerlan Tsarnaev-I'd like to commend Worcester Police Chief Gary Gemme for his extraordinary leadership in not only ensuring public safety, but in finding a solution. The Worcester Police Department demonstrated true professionalism in their around-the-clock-efforts. I'd also like to thank Peter Stefan and Graham, Putnam & Mahoney Funeral Parlor for their unwavering compassion.-I am glad that we as a community can finally put this saga behind us, and return our focus to helping the victims of the Boston Marathon bombings and their families to heal. I am going to take my own advice to ‘move on' and will have no further comment on this issue.-
05.08.2013	A video of U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's 10th End Hunger Now Speech. share: f t
05.08.2013	"This issue will be resolved. And I am continuing to work with everyone I can think of in an attempt to help resolve it. It may take a bit of time, because it's very complicated, but it will be resolved..." share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's statement on Tamerlan Tsarnaev"This issue will be resolved. And I am continuing to work with everyone I can think of in an attempt to help resolve it. It may take a bit of time, because it's very complicated, but it will be resolved. In the meantime, I would urge everyone to get on with their lives. I understand that emotions are still raw. But we should redirect our energies and our passions away from a dead body in a funeral parlor and back toward helping the living survivors of this terrible crime to heal."
05.06.2013	United States Representative Jim McGovern announced two federal grants from the Department of Health and Human Services for Worcester organizations today. The Family Health Center of Worcester received $367,630 to continue funding of their Health Center Cluster, while a study at Clark University on Postpartum Mental Health among Visible and Invisible Minority Women will be funded for $718,722 over the next three and a half years. share: f t U.S. Rep. McGovern announces Department of Health & Human Services Grants for Family Health Center, Clark UniversityUnited States Representative Jim McGovern announced two federal grants from the Department of Health and Human Services for Worcester organizations today.The Family Health Center of Worcester received $367,630 to continue funding of their Health Center Cluster, while a study at Clark Universityon Postpartum Mental Health among Visible and Invisible Minority Women will be funded for $718,722 over the next three and a half years."These competitive grants once again illustrate the incredible work being done in health research and health services in Worcester," said Congressman McGovern. "We are fortunate to have organizations like Family Health Center and Clark University leading the charge to ensure that our residents - all of them - get the physical and mental care they deserve."Family Health Center's grant will be used to continue to deliver comprehensive primary health care for vulnerable populations, including low-income families, individuals with chronic disease and complex medical conditions, culturally and linguistically diverse residents, pregnant women and children in school based health centers."This grant is the early funding of a five year commitment by the federal government to support the efforts of Family Health Center of Worcester, Inc. to provide high quality, culturally competent health care to all, regardless of ability to pay," said Family Health Center Executive Director Frances Anthes. "We are thrilled to receive continued funding and honored to provide this care to Worcester area residents of all ages."Clark University's grant is being awarded to a study being led by Professor Abbie Goldbrg of the Psychology Department. This study will examine postpartum depression in a diverse group of women: namely, heterosexual women, visible sexual minority women (i.e., lesbian women) and invisible sexual minority women (i.e., who have a history of sexual relationships with women but who are partnered with men at the time that they become parents)."This research has exciting possibilities for shifting our understanding of sexual identity, behavior, and relationship history and their implications for mental health, particularly during the transition to parenthood," said Professor Goldberg. "We hope that our findings will be able to inform the practice of health care providers who interface with women during the perinatal period."
05.06.2013	Today, at a press conference to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the award of the Pulitzer Prize in fiction to Ernest Hemingway, the U.S. Finca Vigía Foundation (FVF), under an agreement with the Cuban Council of National Heritage, announced that it has supported the digitization of 2,000 new images of materials relating to Hemingway. share: f t New Hemingway Papers Released by U.S. Finca Vigía FoundationDocuments Paint Fuller Picture of Hemingway and his Life in CubaWashington, DC…. Today, at a press conference to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the award of the Pulitzer Prize in fiction to Ernest Hemingway, the U.S. Finca Vigía Foundation (FVF), under an agreement with the Cuban Council of National Heritage, announced that it has supported the digitization of 2,000 new images of materials relating to Hemingway. This material, which includes letters, passports from 1937 and 1945, telegrams, household accounts, grocery orders and a notebook of hurricane observations among other items, is all currently housed at Hemingway's former Cuban estate. These papers have not been seen before outside of Cuba and will be available for research at the John F. Kennedy Library later this year, joining its existing Hemingway collection. Under a unique agreement between the Cuban government and the US non-governmental Finca Vigía Foundation, irreplaceable Hemingway documents are being conserved and shared between the two countries.In making the announcement, U.S. Congressman Jim McGovern, who was instrumental in the founding of the Finca Vigía Foundation said, -This extraordinary collaboration has for over a decade demonstrated the benefits of a mature, respectful and productive relationship between Cubans and Americans. The Finca Vigía Foundation and its partners have done incredible work in preserving Ernest Hemingway's legacy for future generations of Americans, Cubans and scholars around the world. It is my hope that this project can serve as a model for future collaborations and that we can leave the stale politics and rhetoric of the Cold War behind.-Dr. Jenny Phillips, Co-Founder of the Finca VigíaFoundation and granddaughter of Maxwell Perkins, Hemingway's editor and close friend said, "Ten years ago, an incredible breakthrough occurred when our small foundation was able to bring together Cuba and the U.S. to preserve a shared literary heritage, the legacy of Ernest Hemingway in Cuba. Despite a longstanding impasse between the two countries, we have been able to rise above politics and persist at this purely cultural project. And we are still at it with this fresh new wave of document images which just arrived from Cuba and are headed for the Hemingway collection at the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston".Highlights of the opening include:A 1952 speech that Hemingway wrote in Spanish, accepting a medal for -The Old Man and the Sea- in the name of all the fishermen of northern Cuba;Affectionate notes to his wife Mary;A letter to Ingrid Bergman expressing his wish for her to play Maria in the film -For Whom the Bell Tolls-;Letter to Hemingway from critic Malcolm Cowley regarding "The Old Man and the Sea";Hemingway passports, including one issued in 1937 that tracks his movements as he covered the Spanish Civil War;A notebook of his observations of hurricane movements;Household bills, lists of provisions stocked for his fishing boat Pilar, gourmet grocery orders;Insurance policies listing the make and model of all of Hemingway's cars in Cuba;Instructions to the Finca staff as to what to plant in the garden and how to care for Hemingway's favorite cats;Contract and specifications for the tower constructed at the Finca in 1947.Among the thousands of pages that were opened today, several key documents shed light on Ernest Hemingway's complex character. Hemingway scholar Dr. Sandra Spanier, General Editor of the Hemingway Letters Project and Professor of English, Penn State University, said "This new trove of materials will be tremendously exciting to Hemingway scholars and aficionados. This is the first time that these documents have been seen outside of Finca Vigía. They afford fresh insights into Hemingway's relationships with friends, family, and other writers, and what his celebrity status entailed. We will also be able to gain a richer understanding of Hemingway's activities and lifestyle during the crucial decades that he spent in Cuba."This release is the second group of material that has been digitized and opened to the public. The first opening, in 2008 was comprised of 3,000 images of documents. Digitized copies from the first opening are available at the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston, MA. The Kennedy library has the largest collection of original Hemingway materials. In commenting on the new addition to the collection, Tom Putnam, Director of the Library said, "I want to thank the Finca Vigía Foundation for their persistence in ensuring that these valuable documents are preserved for scholars and the American public. We are very pleased that this new addition will become part of our extensive Hemingway collection at the Library and look forward to making them available to the public later this year."Ernest Hemingway wrote many of his most famous works at Finca Vigía, his Cuban residence. For Whom the Bell Tolls, Across the River and Into the Trees, The Old Man and the Sea, and the manuscripts published posthumously, including AMoveable Feast, Islands in the Stream, The Dangerous Summer, The Garden of Eden, and True at First Light were all written in Cuba where he lived from 1939 to 1960. After Hemingway's death in 1961, his widow, Mary, was allowed to remove the bulk of his papers from the Finca. They were eventually given to the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston, MA. However, thousands of documents remained at Hemingway's house in the outskirts of Havana. Over the next forty years, the Finca and its irreplaceable collection fell into disrepair. Photographs, original manuscripts and galleys of his stories and novels, correspondence and journals, and a personal library of almost nine thousand volumes - many with Hemingway's notes in the margins -- were in danger of destruction from heat, humidity, pests, mold, and the sheer passage oftime. The Cubans did not have the resources to conserve their treasure.In 2002 Dr. Phillips became aware of the thousands of irreplaceable documents in need of conservation at Finca Vigía. With the assistance of Congressman James McGovern and the Cuban Ministry of Culture, Dr. Phillips and her husband, Frank Phillips, State House bureau chief for the Boston Globe, established a US- based non-profit organization in 2004, the Finca Vigía Foundation, whose mission is to preserve Ernest Hemingway's legacy in Cuba. Through private donations, the Foundation has raised money to send conservators and archivists to Cuba to preserve these literary treasures. For more information about the foundation, visit: www.fincafoundation.orgChris Goode, EMC Vice President and Chief Public Affairs Officer commented, "Historical artifacts housed in local museums and libraries around the world are slowly aging. Thanks to the Finca Vigía Foundation, the life of Ernest Hemingway is not only being preserved through digitization efforts but now these pieces of history are accessible for students, academics and others globally. EMC is proud to partner with the Foundation as part of our Information Heritage Initiative to ensure that these cultural treasures are around for future generations to not only learn from, but enjoy."For information about the Finca Vigía Foundation and its mission, contact Mary Jo Adams, Executive Director, at 617-261-6680 or atexecdir@fincafoundation.orgFor information about the opening of the papers, contact Rachel Flor at the Kennedy Library at 617-514-1662, Rachel.Flor@jfklfoundation.org.
05.06.2013	"I know that emotions are running high around this issue. I am in regular contact with the appropriate authorities in an attempt to find a resolution to this situation as quickly as possible. Our focus needs to remain on the victims of the bombings and their families." share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEMAY 6, 2013CONTACT: Scott Zoback (508.831.7356)U.S. Representative Jim McGovern's remarks on arrangements for Tamerlan TsarnaevU.S. Rep. Jim McGovern: "I know that emotions are running high around this issue. I am in regular contact with the appropriate authorities in an attempt to find a resolution to this situation as quickly as possible. Our focus needs to remain on the victims of the bombings and their families."
04.25.2013	Ten years ago, crimes by the Government of Sudan against its own people in Darfur were just beginning. The world witnessed the burning of villages, poisoning of water, murder, rape, brutal assault, and the deliberate forced displacement of entire village. share: f t The Honorable James P. McGovern (MA)Introduction of the Sudan Peace, Security, and Accountability Act of 2013April 24, 2013Five-Minute Special OrderM. Speaker - Ten years ago, crimes by the Government of Sudan against its own people in Darfur were just beginning. The world witnessed the burning of villages, poisoning of water, murder, rape, brutal assault, and the deliberate forced displacement of entire villages by violence. In 2004, these acts were characterized by the U.S. government and Congress as "genocide."For the past six years, the International Criminal Court has indicted and issued arrest warrants for Sudan's high officials, military commanders and militia proxies for multiple counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity. In 2009 and 2010, President Omar al-Bashir himself was indicted by the ICC for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.International movements in support of the people of Darfur arose around the world, including a broad coalition here in the U.S. of religious, labor, peace, human rights and student organizations, calling for an end to the genocide in Darfur. Between 2004 and 2007, Congress passed a series of bills limiting U.S. aid to Sudan and applying sanctions against Sudan for its atrocities in Darfur.In 2007, I visited refugee camps in eastern Chad, filled with hundreds of thousands of men, women and children who had fled the violence in Darfur. Each has a personal story of horror and violence. While I was there, the Janjaweed crossed the border and attacked two villages inside Chad, displacing thousands of people in the desolate landscape and brutal heat of the Sahel in the dry season. I witnessed with admiration the emergency response mobilized within hours by U.N. and international humanitarian agencies and NGOs to provide these newly-homeless and traumatized people with water, food, shelter, immunizations and medical care.I will never forget those people, those children. And I will never forget the caring and highly-professional humanitarian aid workers who provided life-saving support to these refugees under difficult and dangerous conditions.Khartoum continues its brutal campaign in Darfur and there is no end in sight. Eric Reeves, who ten years ago bravely brought to the world some of the very first photo and video images of the scorched earth campaign taking place in Darfur, continues to document on-going atrocities in the region. The primary targets continue to be civilians from African tribal groups surviving tenuously in the chaotic region. Eric is now on the faculty of Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, and I am very proud to be his representative in Congress.Today, the violence and abuses of Darfur have expanded across Sudan. This February, the U.N. reported that over 1.5 million people have been displaced or severely affected because of the violence in Darfur, Abyei, South Kordofan and Blue Nile - including some 90-to-100,000 people newly displaced in Darfur.For over three years, the Sudanese government has carried out aerial bombing and a scorched earth campaign against civilians in the states of South Kordofan and Blue Nile, under the pretext of battling armed insurgencies that operate in the area. The Government continues to deny the World Food Program and other humanitarian and religious organizations access to South Kordofan and Blue Nile to help the thousands in desperate need of food and basic care. The U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights has stated that abuses by the Government of Sudan in these states may constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity.There comes a time when we have to say enough is enough. This is why Congressmen Frank Wolf, Mike Capuano and I are re-introducing today the Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act.Khartoum's abuse of its own people is nation-wide, and this bill focuses on Sudan as a whole. It requires a U.S. comprehensive strategy to end serious human rights violations in all of Sudan. It would provide genuine accountability for persons who have committed or assisted in serious human rights abuses. The bill supports the aspirations of the Sudanese people for peace and democratic reform. It encourages other governments and individuals to end support and aid to the Government of Sudan. And it reinvigorates genuinely comprehensive and sustainable peace efforts to end Sudan's multiple crises.We must send a clear message to Khartoum that the time for change is now. That these abuses must stop. And that peace and genuine participation in the future of Sudan are rights that belong to all of the people of Sudan, no matter their race, ethnic or tribal background, religion, or political affiliation.I ask all of my colleagues to join us on this legislation. It is past time to put an end to the pain, suffering and genocide taking place in Sudan. It is time to support peace, security and accountability.
04.25.2013	We can't ignore the fact that there are more than 16 million kids in America who are food insecure - quite simply, that means more than 16 million children went hungry in 2011. share: f t Statement of U.S. Representative James P. McGovernEnd Hunger Now - Childhood Hunger in AmericaApril 25, 2013M. Speaker -I rise today to talk about the national shame of child hunger in America. I wish it didn't exist, but we can't ignore the fact that there are more than 16 million kids in America who are food insecure - quite simply, that means more than 16 million children went hungry in 2011.That's unconscionable. That's unacceptable.Hunger has no place in the richest, most prosperous nation on Earth. Letting anyone in this country go without food is bad enough, but letting children go hungry is more than heartbreaking - it's just, plain wrong. Yet we let it happen every day in America.16 million children, M. Speaker. That means one in five kids in America go to bed hungry and wake up hungry at some point in their lives during the year. That means one in five kids don't know when their next meal is coming.We are allowing more than 16 million kids to wake up hungry, go to school hungry and go to sleep hungry. We are allowing more than 16 million kids to be deprived of proper nutrition - the nutrition contained in good, healthy food that helps children's minds and bodies properly develop. We are allowing more than 16 million kids to struggle at school and have problems learning simply because they suffer from hunger.Child hunger has many impacts. Kids who don't eat enough good, healthy food will not develop properly. They have more health problems and require more costly healthcare than children who don't have to worry about hunger. Sometimes the lack of food results in developmental problems and learning disabilities. Other times, hunger simply doesn't allow kids to concentrate. These problems can lead to under-education, which can have long-term effects, including a lifetime of low-paying jobs and even unemployment.America has several anti-hunger safety net programs to deal with hunger. Some of these programs are specially designed for children. SNAP - informally known as Food Stamps - is the biggest anti-hunger program in the federal government. It does a good job, but there are still many ways that it can be improved. Over many years we have also created the National School Breakfast Program and the National School Lunch Program. And in order to meet increased demand, we now have afterschool snack and meal programs.But these programs are inadequate in many ways. The breakfast and lunch programs provide either a free or a reduced price meal. The free meal is available to those kids whose families are quite poor. But the reduced price meals are available to kids of families who are poor, but not poor enough to qualify for the free plan. This means there are days and even weeks when a child's family simply may not have enough money to pay for the reduced price meal. That's a serious problem.Another problem is that breakfasts are typically served before school starts, meaning that poor kids have to get themselves to school early just to get a good meal. This can create a stigma where these kids get teased and bullied because they're poor. But it can also result in a pattern where these children don't have regular access a breakfast if their parents can't get them to school on time or if the school buses don't deliver them to school early enough. Organizations like the EOS Foundation in Massachusetts and states like West Virginia are working to fix this by promoting breakfast at the bell programs - a solution I strongly support.And then there are weekends, where schools aren't open. Food banks, churches, synagogues, mosques, and other anti-hunger organizations are filling that gap with food backpacks that are given out on Friday afternoons.As a candidate, then-Senator Obama pledged to End Childhood Hunger by 2015. It was a good idea then, and it's a good idea now. We worked hard and many of us pushed for a comprehensive childhood hunger plan - we even wore these buttons to show our support.M. Speaker, 2015 is only two years away. There is no way that we're not going to make that goal, but it doesn't mean we should give up. No, M. Speaker, now is the time to redouble our efforts. Now is the time to make the pledge to End Hunger Now. And that's not just a clever tag line. No, M. Speaker, we can End Hunger Now if we start with a commitment to develop a comprehensive plan to do so.That's why I continue to call for Presidential leadership on this serious matter. We need a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition to develop a comprehensive plan that will address all aspects of hunger in America - and especially child hunger. We need this Conference to bring all stakeholders - like the EOS Foundation, the Governor and other political leaders from West Virginia and other organizations that are not typically in the anti-hunger movement - together in one room to develop a comprehensive plan, take assignments, and make it work. And if we do this, we can End Hunger Now.I yield back the balance of my time.
04.24.2013	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today joined with U.S. Reps Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Mike Capuano (D-MA) in introducing HR 1692, the "Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act of 2013." share: f t U.S. REPS JIM MCGOVERN, FRANK WOLF AND MIKE CAPUANO INTRODUCE NEW LEGISLATION ON SUDANU.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today joined with U.S. Reps Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Mike Capuano (D-MA) in introducing HR 1692, the "Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act of 2013."2013 marks ten years since the start of crimes in Darfur that the U.S. government found to constitute genocide. HR 1692 bill builds on previous bipartisan efforts to help the people of Sudan by requiring the Administration to create a comprehensive strategic plan to end serious human rights violations, provide genuine accountability for crimes committed in Darfur and other parts of Sudan, support the path for democratic transformation, and create peace throughout all of Sudan."There comes a time when we have to say 'enough is enough,'" Rep. McGovern said on the House floor today. "Khartoum's abuse of its own people is nation-wide, and this bill focuses on Sudan as a whole. We must send a clear message to Khartoum that the time for change is now. That these abuses must stop. And that peace and genuine participation in the future of Sudan are rights that belong to all of the people of Sudan. I want to commend my colleagues Frank Wolf and Mike Capuano for all of their tremendous work on this issue.""It is time for a comprehensive approach to Sudan that doesn't allow Khartoum to pit one crisis against another," Rep. Wolf said. "For too long, the people of Sudan have suffered greatly at the hands of an internationally indicted war criminal. We need a renewed sense of moral clarity in our approach toward Sudan, which includes getting serious about bringing Sudanese president Omar Bashir to justice - if enacted, this legislation will make significant strides toward that end.""There is still far too much suffering in Sudan and this bill expands existing sanctions so that they apply to human rights violations in the whole country, not just Darfur, which has been the site of such horrific violence," Rep. Capuano said. "For too long, the people of Sudan have been subject to unimaginable atrocities and we must continue doing everything we can to ease their misery."Original co-sponsors of HR 1692 include (Republicans in bold): Reps Mike McCaul (TX,) Barbara Lee (CA), Aaron Schock (IL), Karen Bass (CA), Jan Schakowsky (IL), Raul Grijalva (AZ), Chris Van Holloen (MD), Donna Edwards (MD), William Lacy Clay (MO), Gwen Moore (WI), Carolyn Maloney (NY), John Conyers, Jr. (MI), Peter DeFazio (OR), André Carson (IN), Brad Sherman (CA), David Cicilline (RI), Hank Johnson, Jr. (GA), Betty McCollum (MN), Mike Michaud (ME), Bobby Rush (IL), Jim Moran (VA), Ed Markey (MA), Mike McIntyre (NC), and Jared Polis (CO)
04.23.2013	The global development and relief organization Save the Children honored U.S. Rep. James McGovern (D-MA) this week with its Congressional Champion for Real and Lasting Change Award for 2013. share: f t Save the Children Honors Congressman James McGovern as a Champion for Children (April 11, 2013)— The global development and relief organization Save the Children honored U.S. Rep. James McGovern (D-MA) this week with its Congressional Champion for Real and Lasting Change Award for 2013. The award is bestowed on members of the U.S. Congress who show outstanding leadership, extraordinary commitment and vigorous support for helping children in need in the United States and around the world. -We are honored to recognize Congressman McGovern for his tireless efforts to improve the lives of children in need,- said Save the Children President and CEO Carolyn Miles. -As a co-chair of both the Congressional Hunger Center and the Hunger Caucus in the U.S. House of Representatives, he has demonstrated a profound commitment in the fight to end hunger, and to supporting the most marginalized children and families. Given the personal commitment I feel to making sure no child goes hungry, I am especially pleased to honor Congressman McGovern.- McGovern's work on the reauthorization of the U.S. child nutrition bill, as well as on the development and implementation of the -Roadmap to End Global Hunger- has been instrumental in reducing hunger and increasing food security. He also has been a consistent champion in obtaining funding for the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program, helping to support education, child development, and food security for some of the world's poorest children. -I believe that many of the problems facing children in need in the U.S. and around the world — especially hunger — are the result of a lack of political will to find a solution,- said McGovern. -Save the Children does remarkable work advocating for children whose voices often go unheard, and I am incredibly humbled by this award.- McGovern was presented the award Wednesday during Save the Children's Advocacy Summit, an annual event on Capitol Hill that mobilizes individuals from across the country to lend their voice on behalf of children in need in the U.S. and around the world. Other legislators receiving the Congressional Champion for Real and Lasting Change Award for 2013 include Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and U.S. Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-MD).
04.18.2013	The letter, signed by 62 members of Congress, expresses support for a U.S. policy that emphasizes peace, development and human rights. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today sent a bipartisan letter to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on U.S.-Colombia Policy. The letter, signed by 62 members of Congress, expresses support for a U.S. policy that emphasizes peace, development and human rights and urges the State Department to encourage all parties to stay the course at the negotiating table - and for the U.S. to reorient and redirect funds to the full implementation of a peace accord should the negotiations be successful. The letter further expresses support for funding programs in Colombia that create the foundation for lasting peace, many of which already receive U.S. support, especially in the areas of rule of law, supporting victims of violence, ending the culture of impunity, and the implementation of Colombia's Law on Victims and Land Restitution. In particular, the letter argues in favor of greater attention to truth, justice and the participation of and attention to victims of violence and the armed conflict. Four specific issues were highlighted as requiring answers as peace is being negotiated, namely freeing all remaining kidnapped victims and revealing the fate of all others who perished in captivity, what happened to the disappeared and who was responsible for their fate, ending the use of child soldiers and child recruitment, and ending the use of landmines and removing those already laid. A pdf version of the letter, as well as a Spanish translation, is attached.
04.17.2013	The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today introduced a resolution honoring the victims of the bombings at Monday's Boston Marathon, recognizing the first responders who helped those in need, and committing to provide all necessary resources to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators to justice. share: f t Massachusetts Congressional Delegation Introduces Resolution on Boston Marathon Attacks(April 17, 2013) - The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation today introduced a resolution honoring the victims of the bombings at Monday's Boston Marathon, recognizing the first responders who helped those in need, and committing to provide all necessary resources to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators to justice.The full text of the resolution is below, and a link to a copy of the resolution can be found HERE:RESOLUTIONCondemning the horrific attacks of April 15, 2013, in Boston, Massachusetts, and expressing support, sympathy, and prayers for all persons impacted by this tragedy.Whereas the two bombings that occurred in Boston, Massachusetts, on Patriots' Day, April 15, 2013, during the running of the 117th Boston Marathon represent a terrible tragedy and horrific act of terrorism against the people of the United States;Whereas the people of the United States mourn for those persons who lost their lives or were wounded in the attacks;Whereas police, firefighters, National Guard personnel, emergency medical personnel, and other first responders acted promptly and heroically in responding to the attacks, thereby helping to prevent additional losses of life;Whereas the full resources of the Federal, State, and local governments are being brought to bear to investigate these attacks and to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators to justice;Whereas the citizens of Massachusetts are a resilient people and will recover from this tragedy; andWhereas the people of the United States will always remember the victims of the previous acts of terrorism that have occurred in the United States and will always stand together as one people:Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the House of Representatives [United States Senate](1) condemns the senseless attacks in Boston, Massachusetts, on Monday, April 15, 2013;(2) offers sympathy and condolences to the victims' families;(3) sends thoughts and prayers for those persons who are recovering from injuries;(4) honors the heroic efforts of medical personnel who are tirelessly providing care for the victims of this horrific act of violence;(5) admires the courage of first responders and the many citizen heroes who aided the injured and tended to the community;(6) commits to providing all necessary resources to law enforcement officials who are investigating the terrorist attacks;(7) commits to working together as united Americans to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators of the attacks to justice; and(8) recognizes that the city of Boston, the people of Massachusetts, and all Americans will rise up from this tragedy and stand together as patriots.
04.17.2013	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced today that Isabelle Page, a student at Northampton High School, has won the 2013 Congressional Art Competition for Massachusetts' Second Congressional District for her piece "The Insecure Self-Portrait." share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announces Page of Northampton as winner of 2013 Congressional Art CompetitionU.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-02) announced today that Isabelle Page, a student at Northampton High School, has won the 2013 Congressional Art Competition for Massachusetts' Second Congressional District for her piece "The Insecure Self-Portrait." "The Insecure Self-Portrait" will hang in the United States Capitol for the next year, alongside other winning artwork from throughout the country. Page will attend an unveiling ceremony at the Capitol with Congressman McGovern and other winning entrants from around the nation later this year."Every year the quality of art being produced by our students amazes me," said Rep. McGovern. "Their work is a testament to what strong arts programs in our schools can produce. I'm honored to have such incredible submissions to our district's competition, and humbled to know that I'll be able to see our local winner everyday as I walk to the floor of the House in Washington.""I especially want to congratulate Isabelle, whose 'The Insecure Self-Portrait' demonstrated incredible talent and artistic maturity."Congressman McGovern presented Page with her official notification at an Artists' Reception on Friday, April 13th at the Northampton Center for the Arts, where individual category winners were announced as well. Other winning artwork from the district will hang in McGovern's district offices for the next year.75 students from nine schools in the 2nd Congressional District submitted over 100 pieces to the competition. The national competition, initiated by Congress in 1982, includes hundreds of thousands of high school students from across the nation. One piece from each congressional district will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, DC. A full list of the winners and participants is available here.
04.16.2013	We have been inspired by the selfless courage shown by countless first-responders, runners and spectators who immediately came together to help those injured, stranded, and in shock. share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEAPRIL 16, 2013CONTACT: Scott Zoback (774.329.9501)"Lisa and I are praying for all of those impacted by yesterday's horrific, senseless attack. We have been inspired by the selfless courage shown by countless first-responders, runners and spectators who immediately came together to help those injured, stranded, and in shock. It is their example that embodies our great Commonwealth, and their spirit will help us move forward in the days and weeks ahead."
04.16.2013	Today, I want to focus on hunger among our seniors, a silent scourge in our nation. Over 49 million Americans are hungry and, of those, 8.3 million are seniors. That's 1 in 7 seniors and nearly 15% of everyone over 60 years old. In fact, from 2001 to 2009, hunger among Americans over the age of 50 increased by nearly 80 percent. 80 percent! share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern"Senior Hunger in America"April 15, 2013Mr. Speaker, for the past two months, I have been speaking each week about hunger in America. Today, I want to focus on hunger among our seniors, a silent scourge in our nation.Over 49 million Americans are hungry and, of those, 8.3 million are seniors. That's 1 in 7 seniors and nearly 15% of everyone over 60 years old. In fact, from 2001 to 2009, hunger among Americans over the age of 50 increased by nearly 80 percent. 80 percent!It's unconscionable.One reason for this significant rise in senior hunger is the economy. The recession has made hunger in America worse for everyone, and it's been particularly bad among people between the ages of 50 and 59, a population too young for Social Security and Medicare but too old for programs that target families with children. And it's not just the very poor. In fact, between 2007 and 2009, the most dramatic increase in hunger was among those whose annual incomes were twice the poverty line.Food - good, healthy food - is important at all ages, but it is critical for young children and for seniors. For kids, nutritious food is critical for physical and mental development. For seniors, good, healthy food is critical for entirely different but no less important reasons. Hunger can exacerbate existing medical conditions and many medications need to be taken with food. Taking some medicine on an empty stomach can result in illness or hospitalization, problems that not only result in increased medical costs but can also be deadly to people with reduced immune systems.A common problem is that many seniors are homebound; unable to travel to grocery stores or food banks to get food. A homebound senior can be a forgotten senior. It's easy to see why senior hunger is a hidden problem - in many cases the hungry senior is literally hidden away behind a closed door.That's why it's so important to have senior advocacy groups like AARP, the National Council on Aging, and AmpleHarvest.org - to name a few - who focus on senior hunger. AARP has its Drive to End Hunger campaign with NASCAR and Jeff Gordon. The National Council on Aging is working with Feeding America and other food banks to prioritize and target hunger among seniors. AmpleHarvest.org is working with seniors to grow their own food.And, of course, there is Meals on Wheels, which delivers food directly to homebound seniors. A recent Brown University report found that for every additional $25 a state spends on Meals on Wheels each year for a person over 65, the low-care nursing home population decreases by one percent. That helps save Medicaid dollars and lowers healthcare costs overall.In fact, the cost of feeding a senior for one year through Meals on Wheels is roughly equal to the costs of just one day in the hospital. And the average patient stays in the hospital for almost 5 days. Funding for Meals on Wheels is an important investment to decreasing health care spending.I also want to highlight the Seniors Farmers Market Nutrition Program, which helps more than 860,000 seniors who make less than $15,000 per year to have access to local fresh fruits and vegetables at farmers markets. A qualified senior is awarded between $20 and $50 to spend at their local farmers markets. Over 19,000 farmers participate and benefit from the money seniors spend through this program.Wholesome Wave is an organization that doubles the purchasing power of the Seniors Farmer Market Nutrition Program. Its Double Value Coupon Program operates at more than 300 farmers markets in 26 states and the District of Columbia. Boston Mayor Tom Menino has a similar program called the Boston Bounty Bucks. These programs allow low-income seniors on fixed incomes to buy more fresh fruits and vegetables with their limited funds.These are terrific programs, but they simply can't do it all. In the case of senior hunger, we need to make sure that groups like Meals on Wheels and programs like Seniors Farmer Market Nutrition Program are well-funded. But we also need to work with doctors and nurses, with Medicare and Medicaid, and with other healthcare professionals to treat hunger as a health issue. We need to prevent costly hospital readmissions that are preventable with proper nutrition. We need to ensure that seniors aren't falling through the cracks and that they aren't going hungry.We need Presidential leadership to End Hunger Now and we need a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition to talk about senior hunger - to brainstorm, plan and execute a national anti-hunger plan that will truly End Hunger Now.I yield back the balance of my time.
04.12.2013	I view this list as an important first step toward holding egregious human rights violators accountable - preventing them from coming to the U.S. and using our financial networks. share: f t STATEMENT OF U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ON THE -MAGNITSKY LIST- -I view this list as an important first step toward holding egregious human rights violators accountable - preventing them from coming to the U.S. and using our financial networks. -While the list is timid and features more significant omissions than names, I was assured by Administration officials today that the investigation is ongoing, and further additions will be made to the list as new evidence comes to light. The fact that a name is not on the list does not mean that person is innocent. And as the list makes clear, the law empowers the Administration to address human rights violations beyond the Magnitsky case. -The message that we wanted to send with the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act is that we support those who defend human rights and the rule of law in Russia. There are limits to the power of even the most powerful Russian human rights violators. -I know that the Administration agrees with this message, and I will continue to closely monitor their efforts on this issue. Sergei Magnitsky and others like him found the courage to stand up against a deeply corrupt Russian system; surely, the U.S. government can do the same.- Michael Mershon Deputy Chief of Staff / Press Secretary U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-03) McGovern.House.Gov Updates from Rep. Jim McGovern
04.11.2013	"As we listen, let us all remember that we can always walk over that bridge that connects the past to the present. We just have to put one foot in front of the other and have the will to get to the other side." share: f t Twenty Years after the Salvadoran Truth Commission: Justice for Human rights Abuses in El Salvador and Beyond I want to thank the Washington Office on Latin America, the University of Washington Center for Human Rights, the Due Process of Law Foundation, the Center for Justice and International Law, and the Latin American Studies Program at George Mason University for bringing us all together this morning for this important and timely forum. I especially want to thank my good friend Geoff Thale at WOLA, who I constantly rely upon for advice and good counsel on all things connected with El Salvador. And I'm very pleased to see my old friend Ruben Zamora in the audience. Ruben will soon officially be the new Salvadoran ambassador in Washington. The spring is always a season when I think about El Salvador, starting with the March 24th anniversary of the assassination of Archbishop Romero. His murder was the call to action for thousands of people across America to become engaged on El Salvador, which led to millions of people - so many of them from faith communities - working to end the war in El Salvador. A little more than twelve years after his untimely and tragic death, the historic Peace Accords were signed. Everyone hoped that the violence, at last, was over. And at the beginning, there was real reason to hope. The FMLN disarmed. The Armed Forces were purged of many of its most egregious human rights violators and a smaller military retired to its barracks. A new Civilian National Police force was created, along with its new academy. Reconciliation, the open formation and organizing of new political parties - all of this was underway. Under the terms of the Peace Accords, the United Nations was given the task of creating a Truth Commission and investigating the human rights crimes, especially key emblematic cases, which had taken place during the war. Americans Tom Burguenthal and his aide Ted Piccone were members of that Commission who interviewed literally hundreds of Salvadorans, read scores of human rights reports, and carefully investigated El Salvador's dark and painful history. Scarcely a year after the Peace Accords were signed, they issued their report on March 15, 1993. They concluded that the killing in El Salvador was like a madness - the -locura,- they called it. And they named the report, From Madness to Hope: The 12-Year War in El Salvador. An advance copy of the Truth Commission's report had been sent to the Salvadoran government, under the leadership of ARENA President Alfredo Cristiani. Five days after its public release, conservative legislators joined with a few FMLN legislators and swiftly approved an amnesty law that slammed the door shut on El Salvador's ability to pursue justice on any of these cases. This one act - the amnesty - has helped create a post-war legacy marked not only by unfinished justice, but roadblocks to genuine reconciliation, an entrenched culture of impunity and continued and escalating violence. I get angry and frustrated when I hear people say that the amnesty was part of the Peace Accords. It was deliberately NOT included in the peace agreement. Justice and reconciliation were supposed to follow the release of the Truth Commission's report. But it didn't happen. It didn't get the chance to happen. And I strongly urge countries in peace negotiations, like Colombia, not to make the mistake of thinking amnesty is part of a Peace Accord. Truth, justice, repentance, restitution and reconciliation - these are the components of a lasting and meaningful peace accord. I applaud the actions taken by President Funes to remember the past and for the State to take responsibility for its war crimes. His public apologies on behalf of the Salvadoran State to the families and victims of the murdered Jesuits, the assassination of Archbishop Romero and the El Mozote massacre are genuine and moving acts of accountability and reconciliation. But they don't break the culture of impunity, a culture that continues to shield State and private individuals - past and present - from facing justice for their crimes against the people of El Salvador. But just as it is in so many other parts of Latin America, justice can't be ignored - it has a way of coming back and biting you in the behind, if you lack the courage and political will to face it head on. Look at our friends in the Southern Cone - those generals and military officers and their collaborators probably thought they'd never face justice, but they were wrong. I remember Father Tojeira, when he was serving as the Jesuit Provincial for Central America, once telling me that justice doesn't necessarily mean punishment - but that there could be no pardon without confession that a crime or -sin- had been committed and the recognition that deep and lasting harm had been done to others. Only with an act of repentance, facing and taking responsibility for the terrible consequences of an act of violence, the taking of a life, could genuine mercy, forgiveness and reconciliation take place. I believe that. I believe it for El Salvador. I believe it for Guatemala. I believe it for Colombia and for Mexico. I believe it for the United States. I recently spent three days with U.S. civil rights leaders in Selma, Alabama. I literally walked in their footsteps, alongside my good friend and civil rights hero Congressman John Lewis, across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama. We were marching in remembrance of another human rights anniversary in March - March 7th, 1965, Bloody Sunday - when armed Alabama troopers attacked peaceful civil rights demonstrators attempting to cross the bridge from Selma to Montgomery. The young John Lewis was beaten unconscious by Alabama police on that day 48 years ago. It was important to me that my son and daughter were with me as we listened to the stories and memories of those who lived through those difficult days of struggle in the 1960s. We were reminded about how far our nation has come and how far we still have to go. Respect for human rights is something we must renew every day; it is something we have to commit ourselves to every day. Rights and freedoms are not something any of us can take for granted, no matter where we're born and raised. One of the most moving moments happened when the current police chief of Montgomery, Alabama, Kevin Murphy, apologized to Congressman John Lewis for Alabama's officers having failed to protect the Freedom Riders during a trip to Montgomery in 1961. He offered John Lewis his badge in a gesture of reconciliation, telling the congressman that the Montgomery police had enforced unjust laws and failed to protect the Freedom Riders more than five decades ago. Lewis said it was the first time a police chief had apologized to him - and he broke into tears when it happened. Chief Murphy told reporters that he did what he did because it should have been done a long time ago - and that it needed to be done. It needed to be spoken because we in America have to live with the truth. Freedom and the right to live in peace are cornerstones of our society, he said, and that was something that Martin Luther King, Rosa Parks and Congressman Lewis were trying to achieve. I mention this because it illustrates that all nations and all people need to face their past, need to face the truth, and need to find justice and reconciliation. It is not something that will disappear; it will always haunt us until we confront its ghosts. And it's better to do it sooner, at the beginning, than later - allowing pain and impunity to corrupt and corrode any hope for lasting peace. The Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, -The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice.- This morning, we are privileged to have two stellar panels talking about how the arc of the moral universe is bending towards justice in El Salvador and elsewhere - 20 years after the U.N. Commission's Truth Report. As we listen, let us all remember that we can always walk over that bridge that connects the past to the present. We just have to put one foot in front of the other and have the will to get to the other side. Thank you.
04.11.2013	My grandmother used to say an apple a day keeps the doctor away. I hated it when she said that, but you know, M. Speaker - she was right. Good, nutritious food will keep you healthy. share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern"Hunger as a Health Issue"April 10, 2013My grandmother used to say an apple a day keeps the doctor away. I hated it when she said that, but you know, M. Speaker - she was right. Good, nutritious food will keep you healthy.That's because food is medicine. Fruits, vegetables and other healthy foods like beans, legumes, grains and proteins are critical for proper development - simply put, healthy people eat healthy food.The opposite is also true. The more junk food we eat, the less healthy we are. But there are different reasons why people eat less nutritious foods. Many people choose to eat non-nutritious food. But there are many others who cannot afford to buy healthier options. These low-income households have to stretch their food dollars in order to make ends meet. This requires them to buy less nutritious, high-calorie foods that are more affordable on a fixed income. This is why we can have an obese hungry person - they're filling their stomachs with food that isn't good for them simply because it's all they can afford - or all they have access to.This kind of diet has long-term negative effects - on individuals and on the communities where they live. M. Speaker, when we talk about ways to End Hunger Now, we must look at the way the quality of food - or the lack of quality - is impacting hunger in America.In a 2011 report entitled -Hunger in America: Suffering We Are All Paying For,- the Center for American Progress estimated that the health costs for hunger in 2010 were at least $130 billion each year. $130 billion a year! Just for health costs related to hunger.The authors of the report examined medical research and found that there are serious medical consequences directly related to hunger. Specifically, this research found that there is likely to be higher rates of iron deficiency, headaches, stomach aches, frequency of colds, activity-limiting health impairments, specific nutrient deficiencies, more hospitalizations, longer in-patient stays, and poorer overall health status. Along with these physical health issues, there are also mental health conditions attributable to hunger, including anxiety and irritability, depression, withdrawn behavior, psychosocial dysfunction, suicidal thoughts and behaviors, and a need for mental health services.The response is clear, Mr. Speaker: We must treat hunger as a health issue. It frustrates me that we in Congress still act like it's a better option to spend over $130 billion in hunger-related health costs than to actually prevent hunger in the first place.Last month, in March, ProMedica and the Partnership to Fight Chronic Disease released a white paper called -Addressing Hunger Essential to Improving Health.- This paper details how critically important it is to treat hunger as a health issue.The white paper points out that hungry people of all ages - from pregnant women to children to adults to seniors - suffer from a lack of nutrients found in healthy foods. The lack of nutrients results in serious health issues, the very same health issues that cost our nation over $130 billion in health care costs alone. That's nuts!Doctors and nurses should be looking for signs of hunger in their patients. Medical students should have more courses on nutrition. They should be treating hunger just like any other condition. If someone has high blood pressure or a rash, they get a prescription to treat that problem. Doctors should be writing food prescriptions, if that's what it takes to get nutritious food to the food insecure.Health care organizations like ProMedica in Ohio and Michigan, UMass Memorial in Worcester, Massachusetts and Children's Health Watch in four locations, including Boston Medical Center and Drexel University, are trying to right this wrong. They promote health and wellness in general, but they are also treating hunger as a health issue. They are working to reduce the number of hospital readmissions by including food security in their patient's discharge plan. They want to make sure people don't need to be readmitted to a hospital because they suffer a setback simply because they don't have food to eat once they leave the hospital. They are also working to raise awareness about nutrition and exercise and to increase access to healthier food in under-served areas.We need to learn from these organizations and others. That's why it's so important that the White House convene a Conference on Food and Nutrition. We're not going to End Hunger Now if we don't bring the best and brightest minds together in one place - including doctors, nurses, nutritionists, dieticians and other health professionals. We need a national plan of action, and the best way to begin is with a White House Conference.Mr. Speaker, we know that healthy food builds healthy bodies. We know that by ignoring hunger, our nation pays hundreds of billions of dollars in health care costs. We know that nutritious food is good medicine, for body and mind. We need to come together to End Hunger Now.
04.08.2013	The U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced today that it will delay the closures of all 149 federal contract air traffic control towers until June 15. share: f t FAA Extends Tower Closure DateThe U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced today that it will delay the closures of all 149 federal contract air traffic control towers until June 15. Last month, the FAA announced it would eliminate funding for these towers as part of the agency's required $637 million budget cuts under sequestration.This additional time will allow the agency to attempt to resolve multiple legal challenges to the closure decisions. As part of the tower closure implementation process, the agency continues to consult with airports and operators and review appropriate risk mitigations. Extending the transition deadline will give the FAA and airports more time to execute the changes to the National Airspace System.-This has been a complex process and we need to get this right,- said U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood. -Safety is our top priority. We will use this additional time to make sure communities and pilots understand the changes at their local airports.-As of today, approximately 50 airport authorities and other stakeholders have indicated they may join the FAA's non-Federal Contract Tower program and fund the tower operations themselves. This additional time will allow the FAA to help facilitate that transition.-We will continue our outreach to the user community to answer any questions and address their concerns about these tower closures,- said FAA Administrator Michael Huerta.On March 22, the FAA announced that it would stop federal funding for 149 contract towers across the country. A phased, four-week closure process was scheduled to begin this Sunday, April 7. That phased closure process will no longer occur. Instead, the FAA will stop funding all 149 towers on June 15 and will close the facilities unless the airports decide to continue operations as a nonfederal contract tower.###
04.01.2013	Led by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, the Massachusetts Delegation today expressed concern with the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) planned closure of approximately 200 contract air traffic control (ATC) towers nationwide due to the sequestration budget cuts. share: f t Wednesday March 20, 2013Lynch, Massachusetts Delegation Urge FAA to Reconsider Air Traffic Control Tower ClosuresLed by Congressman Stephen F. Lynch, the Massachusetts Delegation today expressed concern with the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) planned closure of approximately 200 contract air traffic control (ATC) towers nationwide due to the sequestration budget cuts. Six of the towers slated for possible closure service Massachusetts airports: Norwood, New Bedford, Lawrence, Beverly, Worcester and Westfield-Barnes. Collectively, these six towers handle hundreds of thousands of operations annually, accommodating commercial, private, medical and military aircraft and flight services.In a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta, the members wrote, "We agree on the need to identify means through which to improve our current fiscal situation. But any such effort should not jeopardize the safety, security and economic well-being of our citizens. These six ATC towers and others around the country are critical to the continued successful operation of their respective airports and to the regions they serve, and vital to our national interests."The full text of the letter can be found below:March 20, 2013Michael P. HuertaAdministratorFederal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, DC 20591RE: DOT/FAA Announcement to Close ATC Contract TowersDear Administrator Huerta:We are writing to express our concern regarding the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) announcement to close a number of contract air traffic control (ATC) towers due to the federal budget sequestration. As you probably know, six of those towers service Massachusetts airports; Norwood, New Bedford, Lawrence, Beverly, Worcester and Westfield-Barnes.These regional airports and their ATC towers are key elements in the national air transportation system and critical to our national security. Closing the ATC towers will jeopardize the safety of the flying public as well as that of residents within a certain proximity to these airports, have a negative impact on regional economies and threaten our military readiness.The six airports in Massachusetts accommodate a significant mix of commercial, medical, private and military aircraft and flight services; three of the six reside within the Class B controlled airspace of Logan International Airport and serve as critical reliever-category airports. The ATC tower operations allow for safe arrivals and departures, prevent mid-air collisions, and maintain the safety and efficiency of our national airspace system through critical flight training programs. Combined, the six towers manage hundreds of thousands of operations annually.The FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board place high importance on implementing Safety Management Systems (SMS). We believe that cutting the Federal Contract Tower program and closing these ATC towers is contrary to a safety-first approach.In addition, over the past three decades, the Federal Contract Tower program has represented one of the agency's most cost-effective safety initiatives. Quite frankly, this decision by the FAA appears to make neither fiscal nor operational sense.We agree on the need to identify means through which to improve our current fiscal situation. But any such effort should not jeopardize the safety, security and economic well-being of our citizens. These six ATC towers and others around the country are critical to the continued successful operation of their respective airports and to the regions they serve, and vital to our national interests. The Federal Contract Tower program's cost effectiveness and flight safety enhancements are a proven success. At the very least a safety risk assessment should be conducted at each individual facility prior to any final decision regarding ATC tower closings.We strongly urge you to carefully consider the critical importance of the Federal Contract Tower program before taking final action on closing any air traffic control towers.Sincerely,__________________________ __________________________STEPHEN F. LYNCH EDWARD J. MARKEYMember of Congress Member of Congress__________________________ __________________________RICHARD E. NEAL JAMES P. McGOVERNMember of Congress Member of Congress__________________________ __________________________JOHN F. TIERNEY MICHAEL E. CAPUANOMember of Congress Member of Congress__________________________ __________________________NIKI TSONGAS WILLIAM R. KEATINGMember of Congress Member of Congress_________________________JOSEPH P. KENNEDY IIIMember of Congress__________________________ __________________________ELIZABETH WARREN WILLIAM M. COWANUnited States Senator United States Senator
04.01.2013	In honor of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition's "National Day to Demand Action," all eleven members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today pledged their support for universal gun background checks as a common sense reform to help end gun violence. share: f t Tuesday March 28, 2013Mass. Delegation Unanimous in Support for Universal Gun Background Checks In honor of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition's "National Day to Demand Action," all eleven members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today pledged their support for universal gun background checks as a common sense reform to help end gun violence."It is long past time for the Senate to pass common sense gun control measures that will help protect our kids and make our communities safer," said Sen. Warren. "I applaud the leadership of Mayor Menino and Mayors Against Illegal Guns. We can reduce gun violence by requiring background checks, by banning assault weapons, and by collecting better data about gun deaths. A day of action gives us all a chance to reaffirm our commitment to the safety of our children."-Every day that passes since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary as many as thirty-three Americans are killed in our communities by gun violence. That means that each day we are repeating the senseless tragedy that killed twenty-six in Newtown last December. But, we have now a chance to finally pass commonsense reforms like universal background checks that respect and preserve the second amendment but also help keep guns out of the hands of those who cannot have them legally,- said Sen. Cowan. -It is our duty to put forward reforms that will protect our children and families from gun violence. I hope to have the opportunity during my short time in Washington to see Congress come together and unite behind smart gun safety measures that can save lives.-"Opponents of gun controls often like to say that people kill people, not the guns. Then there should be no opposition whatsoever to checking whether people are responsible enough to own a gun,- said Rep. Markey. -Along with universal background checks, we need a strong assault weapons ban and a prohibition against high capacity ammunition magazines. It's time to get these military-style weapons off of our streets and to prevent deadly weapons from falling into the wrong hands."-Along with millions of Americans across our country, I am committed to passing commonsense legislation that includes comprehensive background checks,- said Rep. Tierney. -This proposal would help protect our children and make communities safer, and it is a reasonable step we should all be able to get behind.-"I believe the American family needs to have a candid conversation about the scourge of gun violence in our nation. We need to find common sense solutions that will protect our children and our communities from mindless acts of violence,- said Rep. Neal. -There is no good reason why this issue should polarize America. And a good place to start is with universal background checks and closing the gun show loopholes.--Requiring background checks on all gun sales is just one part of a comprehensive, common sense approach to reducing gun violence,- said Congressman Lynch. -I am proud to stand with my Massachusetts colleagues in support of universal background checks and I applaud Mayor Menino's leadership on this issue. Our nation has witnessed enough senseless violence. It is time for Congress to act. Together, we can help protect our children and keep our communities safer.--I have long supported universal background checks for gun purchases, and I'm pleased to see that the Senate has begun working on this criticalissue,- said Rep. McGovern. -I hope that the House will take up similar legislation during the 113th Congress to keep guns out of the hands of felons, domestic abusers, the seriously mentally ill, and other dangerous people. Universal background checks are a vital component of comprehensive gun violence prevention efforts, and Congress must act now.--As a District Attorney for 12 years, I have seen the effects of gun violence in very concrete terms,- said Rep. Keating. -No one's rights are infringed upon with universal background checks and their sole purpose is to protect the public. Background checks will be a constructive step towards enhancing our public safety.--I applaud Mayors Against Illegal Guns and activists all over the country who are speaking out in support of gun control. It is long past time to take action and there is so much we can do to tighten laws while still respecting the 2nd amendment,- said Rep. Capuano. -There is overwhelming support, even among gun owners, for universal background checks. There is no reason to wait on this common sense requirement that will save lives.--Since the tragedy in Newtown rocked our national conscience, our entire nation has rightfully engaged in a discussion about the accessibility of high capacity weapons in our country and the culture of violence we live in. This conversation is long overdue. It is simply not an option to allow this discussion to become stagnant or to be bullied into silence by seemingly untouchable organizations,- said Rep. Tsongas. -While I believe that the Constitution confers a right to own firearms, I also believe that our laws should be able to reasonably control gun manufacturing, sale, and usage to ensure that firearms are used safely and responsibly. Universal background checks are a vital step in that process and toward greater public safety.--Over the past decade there have been too many lives lost, families broken and communities shattered by our inability to keep powerful weapons out of dangerous hands,- said Rep. Kennedy. -I'm proud to stand with Mayor Menino, my fellow members of the Massachusetts delegation, and millions of Americans across the country in supporting background checks and demanding reform."-Never before have so many Americans come together to say ‘enough is enough' and demand action from our leaders in Washington,- said Mayor Menino. -I am proud of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation. They stand united as leaders for background checks on all gun sales and have always answered the call for the safety of the residents of our neighborhoods. On this day of action across the United States, the message from the American people is represented best by our Massachusetts Delegation: we want common sense reforms that keep guns out of the wrong hands.-A recent poll by Mayors Against Illegal Guns found that in 41 key congressional districts across the nation, 89 percent of likely voters are in favor of requiring background checks for all gun sales in addition to 82 percent of gun owners - including 74 percent of National Rifle Association members who endorsed mandatory criminal background checks for anyone purchasing a gun. There are 6.6 million guns transferred in the U.S. every year with no background check for the buyer, but in the fourteen states that already require background checks for all handgun sales, gun trafficking is 48 percent lower, the rate of women murdered by an intimate partner with a gun was 38 percent lower and the firearm suicide rate was 49 percent lower than in other states.Mayors Against Illegal Guns is a national, bipartisan coalition of mayors that was co-founded in 2006 by New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino. The coalition has grown from a committed group of 15 members to more than 900 mayors from 45 states, including Republicans, Democrats and Independents from major cities and small towns around the country. Mayors Against Illegal Guns advocates for common-sense measures that will close deadly gaps in our gun laws and make sure law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to detect and deter gun trafficking. For more information visit www.MayorsAgainstIllegalGuns.org.
04.01.2013	In honor of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition's "National Day to Demand Action," all eleven members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today pledged their support for universal gun background checks as a common sense reform to help share: f t Mass. Delegation Unanimous in Support for Universal Gun Background Checks In honor of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition's -National Day to Demand Action,- all eleven members of the Massachusetts congressional delegation today pledged their support for universal gun background checks as a common sense reform to help end gun violence. "It is long past time for the Senate to pass common sense gun control measures that will help protect our kids and make our communities safer," said Sen. Warren. "I applaud the leadership of Mayor Menino and Mayors Against Illegal Guns. We can reduce gun violence by requiring background checks, by banning assault weapons, and by collecting better data about gun deaths. A day of action gives us all a chance to reaffirm our commitment to the safety of our children." -Every day that passes since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary as many as thirty-three Americans are killed in our communities by gun violence. That means that each day we are repeating the senseless tragedy that killed twenty-six in Newtown last December. But, we have now a chance to finally pass commonsense reforms like universal background checks that respect and preserve the second amendment but also help keep guns out of the hands of those who cannot have them legally,- said Sen. Cowan. -It is our duty to put forward reforms that will protect our children and families from gun violence. I hope to have the opportunity during my short time in Washington to see Congress come together and unite behind smart gun safety measures that can save lives.- "Opponents of gun controls often like to say that people kill people, not the guns. Then there should be no opposition whatsoever to checking whether people are responsible enough to own a gun,- said Rep. Markey. -Along with universal background checks, we need a strong assault weapons ban and a prohibition against high capacity ammunition magazines. It's time to get these military-style weapons off of our streets and to prevent deadly weapons from falling into the wrong hands." -Along with millions of Americans across our country, I am committed to passing commonsense legislation that includes comprehensive background checks,- said Rep. Tierney. -This proposal would help protect our children and make communities safer, and it is a reasonable step we should all be able to get behind.- "I believe the American family needs to have a candid conversation about the scourge of gun violence in our nation. We need to find common sense solutions that will protect our children and our communities from mindless acts of violence,- said Rep. Neal. -There is no good reason why this issue should polarize America. And a good place to start is with universal background checks and closing the gun show loopholes.- -Requiring background checks on all gun sales is just one part of a comprehensive, common sense approach to reducing gun violence,- said Congressman Lynch. -I am proud to stand with my Massachusetts colleagues in support of universal background checks and I applaud Mayor Menino's leadership on this issue. Our nation has witnessed enough senseless violence. It is time for Congress to act. Together, we can help protect our children and keep our communities safer.- -I have long supported universal background checks for gun purchases, and I'm pleased to see that the Senate has begun working on this criticalissue,- said Rep. McGovern. -I hope that the House will take up similar legislation during the 113th Congress to keep guns out of the hands of felons, domestic abusers, the seriously mentally ill, and other dangerous people. Universal background checks are a vital component of comprehensive gun violence prevention efforts, and Congress must act now.- -As a District Attorney for 12 years, I have seen the effects of gun violence in very concrete terms,- said Rep. Keating. -No one's rights are infringed upon with universal background checks and their sole purpose is to protect the public. Background checks will be a constructive step towards enhancing our public safety.- -I applaud Mayors Against Illegal Guns and activists all over the country who are speaking out in support of gun control. It is long past time to take action and there is so much we can do to tighten laws while still respecting the 2nd amendment,- said Rep. Capuano. -There is overwhelming support, even among gun owners, for universal background checks. There is no reason to wait on this common sense requirement that will save lives.- -Since the tragedy in Newtown rocked our national conscience, our entire nation has rightfully engaged in a discussion about the accessibility of high capacity weapons in our country and the culture of violence we live in. This conversation is long overdue. It is simply not an option to allow this discussion to become stagnant or to be bullied into silence by seemingly untouchable organizations,- said Rep. Tsongas. -While I believe that the Constitution confers a right to own firearms, I also believe that our laws should be able to reasonably control gun manufacturing, sale, and usage to ensure that firearms are used safely and responsibly. Universal background checks are a vital step in that process and toward greater public safety.- -Over the past decade there have been too many lives lost, families broken and communities shattered by our inability to keep powerful weapons out of dangerous hands,- said Rep. Kennedy. -I'm proud to stand with Mayor Menino, my fellow members of the Massachusetts delegation, and millions of Americans across the country in supporting background checks and demanding reform." -Never before have so many Americans come together to say ‘enough is enough' and demand action from our leaders in Washington,- said Mayor Menino. -I am proud of the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation. They stand united as leaders for background checks on all gun sales and have always answered the call for the safety of the residents of our neighborhoods. On this day of action across the United States, the message from the American people is represented best by our Massachusetts Delegation: we want common sense reforms that keep guns out of the wrong hands.- A recent poll by Mayors Against Illegal Guns found that in 41 key congressional districts across the nation, 89 percent of likely voters are in favor of requiring background checks for all gun sales in addition to 82 percent of gun owners - including 74 percent of National Rifle Association members who endorsed mandatory criminal background checks for anyone purchasing a gun. There are 6.6 million guns transferred in the U.S. every year with no background check for the buyer, but in the fourteen states that already require background checks for all handgun sales, gun trafficking is 48 percent lower, the rate of women murdered by an intimate partner with a gun was 38 percent lower and the firearm suicide rate was 49 percent lower than in other states. Mayors Against Illegal Guns is a national, bipartisan coalition of mayors that was co-founded in 2006 by New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Boston Mayor Thomas Menino. The coalition has grown from a committed group of 15 members to more than 900 mayors from 45 states, including Republicans, Democrats and Independents from major cities and small towns around the country. Mayors Against Illegal Guns advocates for common-sense measures that will close deadly gaps in our gun laws and make sure law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to detect and deter gun trafficking. For more information visit www.MayorsAgainstIllegalGuns.org.
03.20.2013	Once again, the Republican Majority in the House is proving that they never let facts get in the way of a good press release. share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern Statement on consideration of the Rule for H.R. 890 March 13, 2013 I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma, Mr. Cole, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself such time as I may consume. Once again, the Republican Majority in the House is proving that they never let facts get in the way of a good press release. Today's bill takes a sensible, bipartisan piece of legislation and tacks on a partisan political ploy that was used in the last Congress to try and embarrass President Obama. Instead of bringing a simple, clean extension of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, the Republican Majority is continuing a political attack from the last election. And like many of the other political attacks lobbed against President Obama in that campaign, this attack is simply untrue and destined for failure. Over the last two years, members of the Majority have charged that actions taken by the Department of Health and Human Services to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the TANF program are an attempt to -let people site at home and collect welfare checks.- Such charges have been declared false by numerous fact checking organizations including Factcheck.org, PolitiFact and The Fact Checker at The Washington Post. Furthermore, Ron Haskins, former Republican staff director of the Ways and Means Human Resources Subcommittee, and one of the chief architects of the 1996 welfare reform law, said that reforms similar to the ones being made by HHS are justified, and added, -I do not think it ends welfare reform or strongly undermines welfare reform. Each state has to say what they will do and how that reform will either increase employment or lead to better employment.- The merits of the changes implemented by HHS strengthen federal efforts to move Americans from welfare to work. In allowing states the flexibility from rigid TANF requirements, the Administration requires that any changes provide a -more efficient or effective means to promote employment.- In explaining the policy changes, HHS Secretary Sebelius stated, -Governors must commit that their proposals will move at least 20 percent more people from welfare to work compared to the state's past performance.- Under such requirements, it is impossible to assert that these changes will weaken the federal efforts to move citizens from welfare to work. In fact, in looking at the actual rules even briefly, it is clear that these changes strengthen our federal efforts by allowing for more effective and efficient programs the room to operate at the state level. M. Speaker, it may be surprising to some watching today's proceedings that the Majority disapproves of the Administration's programmatic changes. For the underlying principle of the changes is the belief that states should have flexibility to implement proven and effective methods for moving Americans from welfare to work. Yet, today a Republican Majority that often boasts of its commitment to states rights now stands in fierce opposition to that very principle. They find themselves demanding that even when more effective methods for putting Americans to work are available, federal standards dictated from Washington must rule the day. And the real irony in their argument against the Administration's actions is that the request for flexibility came from a governor - a Republican governor. And not just a Republican governor from a blue state like New Jersey or purple a state like Virginia. No, M. Speaker, the Governor of Utah - one of the reddest states in the nation - is the one who requested this waiver. I've seen some interesting legislative ju-jitsu on this House floor. One day they're adhering to the Hastert rule; the next day the Boehner rule applies. This Republican Majority legislates by lurching from issue to issue trying to find something that works. So I can't say I'm surprised that they are declaring themselves against increasing work requirements for TANF recipients as requested by a Republican governor. The only thing I can chalk it up to is politics. You'd think that at some point the Republican Majority would rather legislate instead of fighting a political battle that was decided four months ago; a political battle they lost and lost badly. Sadly, that day is not today If this majority were truly serious about work and employment - about actually reducing the number of people on TANF - then we would be voting on a bill to repeal the sequester. We would be voting on a bill to save the 750,000 jobs that will be lost this year because of these arbitrary and thoughtless cuts. The reauthorization of TANF isn't controversial. We could move that bill on suspension. But what appears to be controversial to this Republican leadership is putting people to work. What appears to be controversial to this Republican leadership is saving our economy from the devastating sequester cuts. What appears to be controversial to this Republican leadership is responsible governing. In contrast, M. Speaker, House Democrats have a plan; a plan that House Republicans block time after time after time. Congressman Van Hollen has a balanced sequester replacement - one that will get rid of the arbitrary cuts and replace them with a balanced mix of cuts and revenues; revenues that come from closing tax loopholes that even Republicans like Mitt Romney oppose. Congressman Van Hollen has come to the Rules Committee four times this year alone in the hope that this Republican leadership - the ones who promised an open house and an open legislative process - would make his amendment in order. And four times now, the Republican leadership in this House has refused to make that amendment in order. Why, M. Speaker? Why not allow the Van Hollen sequester replacement bill to come to the floor for a vote? Didn't Speaker Boehner promise a more open House? Didn't he say that the House should work its will? This isn't the way to run a democracy, M. Speaker. This isn't an open and fair process. That's because this Republican leadership is not about openness. They're not about legislating responsibly. They're about desperate attempts to score cheap political points. That's what they're doing with the sequester. And that's what they're doing with this TANF reauthorization. M. Speaker, we should defeat this rule and defeat this bill. It's time we put partisan politics aside at least until the next election season and start working for the American people. I reserve the balance of my time.
03.19.2013	The Ryan budget not only does not End Hunger Now, it actually makes hunger in America worse than it is today. share: f t Statement of U.S. Representative James P. McGovernMarch 14, 2013"The Ryan Budget and SNAP"Budget resolutions are essentially moral documents. They lay out a vision of how each party sees the future and where our priorities should lie. Since this is budget week - the week when we will vote on a number of different, competing visions for America - it's the right time to talk about the misguided priorities laid out in the Republican budget as presented by Chairman Paul Ryan.Once again, Chairman Ryan has proposed a budget that guts low-income programs. The Ryan budget not only does not End Hunger Now, it actually makes hunger in America worse than it is today.Simply put, M. Speaker, we are currently not doing enough to End Hunger Now. There are over 50 million hungry Americans in this country; 17 million are kids. Over 47 million rely on SNAP, formerly known as food stamps, to put food on their tables. Without this program, real hunger - the actual absence of food - would be much worse.The Great Recession is the primary reason hunger is so bad today. Now, don't get me wrong, hunger has been getting worse since the presidency of Ronald Reagan. We almost eradicated hunger in America in the late 1970s, but hunger has been getting steadily worse in the decades since. But the Great Recession - the worst economic period we've faced since the Great Depression - resulted in millions more hungry people; millions of people who had to turn to SNAP as the safety net that prevented them from going without food altogether.Recognizing that hunger is a real problem and that we need to End Hunger Now, I would hope that any budget proposed in this Congress would, at the very least, do no harm to those who are struggling the most in our current economy.Yet the Ryan budget slashes SNAP once again. This should come as no surprise. This is basically the same budget he's introduced over the past few years - and the same budget that voters have rejected over and over again. Yes, M. Speaker, this is the same budget that turns Medicare into a voucher; the same budget that repeals the Affordable Care Act; and the same budget that gives even more tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans. And, M. Speaker, it's the same budget that turns SNAP into a block grant.Now, my Republican friends will provide false arguments about what the Ryan budget really does. They'll say that this just gives Governors flexibility or that they're just combating fraud, waste and abuse. M. Speaker, the real goal of the Ryan budget - and of my Republican colleagues who support it - is to end SNAP as we know it.SNAP is not just a simple anti-hunger program, it is among the most effective and efficient - if not THE most effective and efficient - federal programs. SNAP has a historically low error rate. Trafficking is going down and prosecutions of SNAP trafficking are clearly visible as USDA works to reduce that problem. SNAP is a counter-cyclical program. This means that enrollment increases as the economy worsens. It is a true safety net program. And it has a side-benefit of being a stimulus program. Every SNAP dollar spent results in another $1.72 in economic activity.Yes, SNAP can use some improving. But the wholesale and shortsighted changes included in the Ryan budget aren't the answer.The Ryan budget actually cuts $135 billion from SNAP over the next 10 years. $135 billion. That's not a haircut - that's a meat ax. It's an 18 percent cut, a cut that will cause real harm to low-income families who otherwise couldn't afford food. The cuts in the Ryan Budget will have a real impact on poor Americans and struggling working families - because millions of people on SNAP work for a living. They earn so little that they still qualify for federal assistance. If they apply these cuts solely to eligibility, these cuts would mean that 8 to 9 million people would be cut from SNAP. If these cuts are applied solely to benefits, then all 47 million people on SNAP would see an average cut of $24 per person per month. That adds up to a cut of almost $1100 per year for a family of four. That may not seem like much to a Congress that has a lot of millionaires, but an $1100 cut will do real, serious harm to people whose budgets are already stretched to the limit.M. Speaker - cuts like these are not just misguided, they're cruel. Combined with cuts to other low-income programs that are included in the Ryan Budget, these SNAP cuts will absolutely make hunger in America worse.M. Speaker, as we consider a budget, at the very least, we should do no harm. But we should really be striving to make every American's life better. Cutting SNAP not only doesn't make anyone's life better, it actually does real harm - harm that will manifest in a less educated population, a sicker nation and a nation that ultimately has to spend more on the hungry simply because we decided to bring austerity to a program that doesn't deserve to be cut.We are a great country, M. Speaker. We are great because we have had a tradition of caring about the most vulnerable among us. Let us not turn our backs on one of our greatest traditions. Let us not turn our backs on the poor. Let's instead End Hunger Now.M. Speaker, I believe we can End Hunger Now if we find the political will to do so. The Ryan budget does the opposite - it cuts a vital anti-hunger program for crass, political reasons; an act that makes hunger worse.I yield back the balance of my time.
03.14.2013	The SKILLS Act would kill a program that provides low-income individuals with the training they need to get jobs - jobs that pay enough to get them off of public assistance. share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern Statement on SNAP Cuts included in H.R. 803 March 14, 2013 M. Speaker, the ongoing problem with this Republican Majority is their insistence on partisan political ploys at the expense of sound policy. They are more focused on throwing red meat to the right wing of the right wing than on jobs and strengthening our economy. That's clear in the bill that we're considering today - the so-called SKILLS Act. Instead of bringing a bill to the floor that will help our economy prosper and grow jobs, this Majority has given us a bill that will gut job training programs. This is not a good bill - in fact, it does real harm to job training programs that will help put Americans to work. And I'm particularly alarmed by the bill's egregious cuts to the SNAP Education and Training program. The SKILLS Act would destroy the SNAP Education and Training Program as we know it. It would kill a program that provides low-income individuals with the training they need to get jobs - jobs that pay enough to get them off of public assistance. The author of this bill, my colleague on the Rules Committee Dr. Foxx, doesn't take a meat axe to this program, but instead cleverly reworks it in a way so that - while it will exist in name - it will not be able to carry out its mission. Rather than going directly at the program and reducing or zeroing out program funding, the bill instead eliminates the role of the SNAP agency in determining what kinds of services are provided to SNAP participants. Under the SKILLS ACT, the WIA board is authorized to serve "eligible SNAP participants." The way this would appear to work is that the state SNAP agency would still assign some group of participants to SNAP Education and Training Programs, but only to those programs as provided through the WIA. The concern is that a good number of states, including my home state of Massachusetts, have found WIA services to be inappropriate for SNAP participants. The fact is, M. Speaker, childless unemployed adults generally cannot participate in SNAP for more than 3 months out of every 3 years unless they are enrolled in certain types of training programs for 20 hours per week. In this legislation, Workforce Investment Boards are not required to provide work slots that meet these conditions, and state SNAP agencies are no longer able to provide additional services. As a result, if jobs are not available, some poor individuals who are willing to work could lose their SNAP benefits. According to the GAO, -many [SNAP] participants are not ready for many program services such as training classes offered by programs at the [WIA] one-stops because they lack basic skills, such as reading and computer literacy, that would allow them to use those services successfully.- At best, low-income individuals on SNAP who are lacking job skills that will help them get off of public assistance will be denied access to job training programs. At worst, low-income individuals who rely on SNAP to put food on their table will see either part or all of their benefit cut. Yes, M. Speaker, this new legislation could actually make hunger worse. M. Speaker, this is a bad bill that does nothing to help the American economy or the unemployed or untrained in this country. We should be focusing on jobs, not partisan legislation. This is yet another attack on poor people. We should be working to End Hunger Now and not passing bills that make hunger worse. I yield back the balance of my time.
03.13.2013	The truth is that hunger is solvable - we have the means, the infrastructure and the food to end hunger. We just don't have the political will to do so. share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern"#EndHungerNow - A Place at the Table Social Action Plan"March 13, 2013I rise, once again, to talk about hunger in America and, specifically, the effort to End Hunger Now.M. Speaker, hunger is still far too prevalent in America. There are more than 50 million people in this country who don't know where their next meal will come from. 17 million of those hungry people are children.17 million, M. Speaker.That breaks my heart, M. Speaker - especially because it doesn't have to be this way.The truth is that hunger is solvable - we have the means, the infrastructure and the food to end hunger. We just don't have the political will to do so.This point is delivered in a clear, concise and emotional way in a documentary that is in theaters now. Called -A Place at the Table,- this film, at its core, may be a simple story of hunger in America, it's really an emotional tale about how people are struggling with hunger in America. About piecing just enough together to make ends meet - day-by-day, week-by-week and month-by-month.These stories aren't new and, unfortunately, they aren't unique. We don't have to look far to see a working mother who struggles to provide nutritious food for her children. We don't have to look far to see a young girl who struggles in school simply because hunger prevents her from concentrating in the classroom. We don't have to look far to see food pantries stretched beyond their means as they try to keep up with the demands of feeding the hungry in their communities. And we don't have to look far to see how often the hungry and undernourished are utilizing our healthcare systems for hunger- and nutrition-related conditions.What is new and unique today is the platform through which we hear these stories and experience what the individuals featured in the film are going through. The stories told by the directors, Kristi Jacobson and Lori Silverbush, weave together one heartbreaking history of how we went from almost ending hunger in America in the late 1970s to more than 50 million hungry 40 years later.But this isn't just a story of woe, M. Speaker. For me, this is also a story of hope and optimism; a story of a difficult struggle, but a struggle fought with dignity. And it is a story that is part of a bigger purpose and goal - the goal to End Hunger Now.At its heart, the point of this documentary is that we can End Hunger Now. And I'm pleased and impressed that a strong, coordinated social action plan accompanies the film. This comprehensive plan can be found online at www.takepart.com/table and I encourage everyone to take a look at this website.Once there, people will be able to find important resources, including ways to access food assistance if they need help; an online gallery of artists, politicians, teachers, writers, and business and community leaders who once needed help through SNAP - the primary federal anti-hunger safety program; and a list of partners who are helping combat hunger through this film. Most importantly, it outlines ways that people can help make hunger a national priority now and it includes specific actions that people can take in their communities.M. Speaker, we've had a number of strong anti-hunger partners over the years, but this is the first time in recent memory that there is a dedicated effort to end hunger tied directly to a mainstream film that is nationally garnering critical acclaim.The social action plan is based on a simple concept - people will be moved by the individual stories and the facts about hunger documented in the film. They will be moved to act in a meaningful way. Through this website, people can take simple actions like contacting their elected officials or volunteering to work with local and organizations that are making a difference in their communities - organizations like FRAC, Feeding America, Share Our Strength, Bread for the World, DC Central Kitchen, AmpleHarvest.org, WHY Hunger, and Wholesome Wave, to name just a few of the 30 organizations allied with the film.There is also a book that accompanies the film of the same name that explains the issue of hunger and goes over the many ways each of us can help to End Hunger Now.As I've said over and over again, hunger is a political condition, one that requires action by concerned Americans. Over the past few weeks, we've seen how so many Americans care about this problem and want to be part of the solution to End Hunger Now.And, I would, once again, urge the President to organize a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition to devise a plan to End Hunger Now.M. Speaker, with partners like those behind -A Place at the Table- along with their social action plan, we can make a real difference. We can End Hunger Now.I yield back the balance of my time.
03.12.2013	"We have revolutionized our thinking and strategically realigned our priorities so that we are all pushing the City forward in one direction toward a common goal." share: f t CONGRESSMAN JAMES P. MCGOVERN WORCESTER TELEGRAM & GAZETTE VISIONS AWARD PROGRAM - MARCH 11, 2013 MECHANICS HALL, WORCESETER, MA KEYNOTE ADDRESS Good afternoon, and thank you Bruce for that generous introduction. I am honored to be here today with all of you for the Telegram and Gazette's annual Visions Award Program, now in its 22nd year. Let me begin by thanking the Telegram for establishing this important program to recognize the very best and brightest leaders in our City and our region. You have once again chosen a distinguished and deserving class of award recipients this year and I congratulate Abe (Haddad); Moe (Boisvert); Amy (Mosher); Dennis (Rice) and Anna (Klouda), as well as their families, for this prestigious recognition they rightfully receive today. I also want to publicly thank them for the invaluable contributions they have made, and will continue to make, to our community. We are all very grateful for your dedicated service and your stellar achievement. Before I go any further, let me briefly mention that I know this is likely an uneasy time for the management and staff of the Telegram and Gazette given the recent announcement by the New York Times Company. Just as our national and local economy has been affected by some of the dramatic changes that are occurring in healthcare, the life sciences and manufacturing, so too are print media outlets undergoing dynamic shifts in that industry. I, for one, think it is vitally important for the City of Worcester and Central Massachusetts to have a daily newspaper. The Telegram is an intrinsic part of our regional identity, and while I don't always agree with its editorial positions, it is an important resource that all of us should fight to preserve. The second largest city in New England deserves to have a daily newspaper that documents all of the notable people and remarkable events that are occurring here. I expect that the Telegram will continue to be that daily newspaper for years to come. That being said, let me now turn to some of the remarkable progress that I have witnessed here in Worcester and share with you my hopeful vision for the future of our City. Nearly a decade ago, I stood right here on this very stage to address a similar audience at the annual meeting of the Worcester Regional Chamber of Commerce. At that time, I expressed my frustration with the City's approach to economic development, describing it as lurching from one project to another without any cohesion or comprehensive planning for the future. That speech has since been popularized by Bob Nemeth and others as the ‘soccer ball' speech because I compared the City's approach to my then four-year old son's soccer team where everyone rushes to chase the ball on the field, crowding around it, without regard for their position, assignment or ultimate goal. I am pleased to report to you today that is no longer the case. What a difference a decade can make. We have revolutionized our thinking and strategically realigned our priorities so that we are all pushing the City forward in one direction toward a common goal. In fact, I think it is useful to take stock of the progress we have made as we endeavor to shape our future. So, please indulge me as I take just a few moments to chronicle what I believe are some of the most compelling examples of the new Worcester since I last stood on this stage and gave my candid assessment of the City's prospects. Ten years ago, Gateway Park was little more than an interesting idea; the revitalization of Main South was a distant dream; the Hanover Theater was the lonely vision of two local pioneers for the performing arts; a vibrant commercial district centered around the rich industrial history of the Blackstone Canal was merely a curiosity; and the demolition of the moribund Worcester Common Fashion Outlets Mall to reconnect and renew our downtown was the whimsical fantasy of a Boy Mayor. As we gather here this evening, I am proud to say that all of this and much more has been accomplished. It has happened because together we consciously refused to accept the status quo and steadfastly rejected the low expectations that had held our City back for too long. Make no mistake, the progress we enjoy today is because of bold political leadership; disciplined municipal management and, most importantly, the willingness of academia and private business to partner with the city, state and federal government to support a shared agenda. That a vastly underutilized brown field at the north end of our central business district could be transformed by the WBDC into a cutting-edge research park anchored by WPI and an incubator for burgeoning biotechnology companies shepherded toward success by MBI, is what first set the stage for the successful public-private cooperation that has become the hallmark of our new approach. I am particularly proud the new approach we adopted did not leave neighborhood development behind. Building on the long-standing partnership between Clark University and the Main South CDC, we have successfully reclaimed blighted parcels in the Gardner-Kilby-Hammond Neighborhood for nearly 100 units of new housing for working families. Those families have a magnificent, state-of-the art Boys & Girls Club, to call their own and the City has reaped the financial rewards of once-derelict properties now generating substantial tax revenue to support City services. The Gardner-Kilby-Hammond Initiative must soon be completed with the construction of Clark University's Athletic Fields adjacent to the Boys & Girls Club so that neighborhood doesn't suffer any erosion of the gains we have made. In fact, we should not retreat from the contributions our CDCs have made to neighborhood development. Instead, we should rush to include them in the future growth of our City. In as much as we have made our neighborhoods more livable for city residents these past ten years, we have also become a destination for those seeking cultural and recreational opportunities from across Massachusetts and New England. I'm grateful that the DCU Center continues to be a popular venue for major events but I'm also very pleased that the Hanover Theater for the Performing Arts is also drawing patrons from outside the city to our downtown. The presence of a -Broadway-caliber- performing arts theater solidifies and enhances the City's reputation as a cultural center. I look forward to the further revitalization of the Theater district with the redevelopment of the former Telegram building and welcome the participation of Quinsigamond Community College in that effort. After all, we can't expect Charlie Monahan and the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences will continue forever to be the leading champion of our shared goal to remake downtown into an 18-hour-a-day hub of activity; although, thankfully Charlie has not shown any signs of slowing down. Another critical element of our new strategy has been to focus on our transportation assets and our geographic location. With many professionals being priced out of the metropolitan Boston housing market, we undertook an aggressive effort led by our Lieutenant Governor Tim Murray to greatly expand access to commuter rail. In a historic agreement, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts acquired the rights to the Worcester/Framingham rail line from freight carrier, CSX. This has given us greater frequency and control over the number of daily trains to and from Boston. As a result, we have benefited from steadily increasing ridership and a real estate market that has far out-performed other parts of the state even through the recession. At the same time, the magnificently restored Union Station has become more than just an intermodal transportation center. It is a majestic City landmark that has helped catalyze transit-oriented development in the Canal district and beyond. The sheer persistence and unbridled passion of a handful of business owners in that area of the City has re-established a thriving, unique commercial center that is home to street festivals and programming that set it apart. I am proud that government has been a partner in the explosive growth of the Canal district with millions of dollars of streetscape and infrastructure improvements to complement all of the private investment that has occurred. In just a few more weeks, we will further strengthen our transportation network with the grand opening of the Worcester Regional Transit Authority's new HUB adjacent to Union Station. This will connect the dots of our public transit system in a way that we've never done before and it is further evidence of the linkage and cohesion we have brought to urban planning. That we have also been able to turn-over ownership of Worcester Regional Airport to Massport while turning back the critics who have called for its closure is also a signature achievement of these past ten years. I too have been frustrated with the intermittent commercial service at Worcester Airport. But I return again to the central tenet of our new thinking: Worcester is no longer beholden to low expectations. We are not deluding ourselves by pursuing consistent commercial service at Worcester Airport for the long term. Just the opposite -- we have a defined market and a facility that is worthy of our lofty expectations. Rectrix, the new fixed based operator at Worcester Airport, shares those expectations and has made a significant investment in its facilities to promote private, corporate and charter service here. I am increasingly confident that our devotion to the airport as a regional transportation asset will soon be rewarded. Finally, I will finish this retrospective of our progress with City Square which encapsulates the sea change Worcester has undergone in leveraging the power of public-private partnerships. After city and state officials devised an innovative public financing program to undertake the infrastructure improvements necessary to make way for City Square, we still needed a private developer to make the ambitious project a reality. Not content to rest on the success of the Hanover Theater and Hanover Field at Holy Cross, Fred Eppinger and the Board of Directors of Hanover Insurance thankfully stepped into the breach to join the City in moving City Square from the drawing board to reality. Now we all can see for ourselves the wisdom of what the Lieutenant Governor first envisioned when he proposed demolishing the Mall. Today, my heart sings as I drive past the newly renovated Worcester Common toward Washington Square and by the newly opened Unum office building and the future Saint Vincent's oncology center. It is incumbent on all of us to make sure City Square realizes its full potential as it enters the next phases of development. So when I look at Worcester today, I see a great City - a world class city; a city that knows what it is and where it is going; a city that has fully embraced the power of partnerships to shape its bright future. If anyone doubts for a moment that Worcester is a world class city, then I would call your attention to the international acclaim our University of Massachusetts Medical School just received again for its central part in curing a 2 ½ year old girl born with HIV AIDS of that insidious disease. UMass Medical School is the envy of every city and state in this nation and I am thrilled that they are expanding into the biotechnology park so that they can continue to be in the vanguard of these kinds of ground-breaking medical discoveries that can only be described as a victory for humanity. While Worcester has much to be proud of over these last ten years, I regret to say that Washington DC has regressed to the lowest point that I've witnessed during my tenure in Congress. We now have a United States House of Representatives populated with a number of members who truly don't believe that there is any role for the federal government beyond providing for our national defense. I mention that because each and every one of the examples I just cited of our success here locally over the last decade has happened BECAUSE OF - not in spite of - some level of support by the federal government. Often times that support has come from directed federal investment in the form of earmarks that my senate colleagues and I included in various annual appropriations bills to help stimulate economic growth. I know that the practice of ‘earmarking' has been derided by many in the media as wasteful spending on special interests. However, I will tell you that federal earmarks have absolutely been an indispensable part of the progress that we have enjoyed here in Worcester. These are tough times for our nation. I know that right now Congress is not held in high regard by the public. I saw a recent poll which indicated that head lice is more popular than Congress. The good news according to the poll is that Congress is still more popular than syphilis, Sequestration, in my view, represents an all time high in recklessness and stupidity. It's one thing to eliminate waste—it's quite another thing to allow for mindless, senseless across the board cuts in spending. It has become fashionable in Washington to bash government; to run for office promising to dismantle it; to imply that somehow government is responsible for all the evils in the world. As you know, my good friend Senator George McGovern died last year after a long and extraordinary life. I was honored to fly out to South Dakota and to deliver one of the eulogies at his funeral. And as I was thinking about what I wanted to say, I re-read a speech that he gave in 1978 - while I was a college intern for him-- to the annual convention of the Americans for Democratic Action, a speech he entitled -A Vision of Positive Government.- It's a terrific speech, a full-throated defense of an activist federal role. I was struck by two things while reading it: First, it's no wonder he lost his re-election in very conservative South Dakota two years later. And second, a lot of what he said still applies to us today. -Let us insist,- he said, -that government can, and must, solve problems … A clear vision of a better country cannot offer mere abstractions and disconnected echoes of the latest opinion polls. It asks not just for efficient government; it asks efficient at what. It depends not just on preaching love, compassion and competence - but on achieving results. For faith without works is empty.- Thirty-five years have passed since George McGovern gave that speech. But it encapsulates my philosophy, as well. I am a proud and passionate liberal. I still believe in a strong public sector. But not for the sake of ideology alone. I am a liberal because I believe that government - our government - can and must do all it can to help every single one of us achieve the American dream. Government can provide ladders of opportunity so that everyone can succeed, I am interested in results - results like those we have see right here in Central Massachusetts. While I am a strong liberal, I also respect a strong conservative movement in our country-- those who believe in a smaller government that collects less in taxes. And, quite frankly, the problem in Washington is not the battle between these two great traditions- but, rather, both liberals and conservatives are confronted with a group that represents an anti-government extremism that would make Barry Goldwater's head spin, an Anti-government extremism that seeks to dismantle the New Deal and the New Frontier and the Great Society. When I listen to those who would roll back 75 years of social progress, I'm reminded of the old Internet joke about the guy who wakes up to his alarm clock powered by a regulated electricity monopoly; takes a shower in clean water provided by a municipal system; eats a breakfast of bacon and eggs inspected by the USDA; takes his FDA-approved medication; drives his kids to public schools on roads maintained by local and state agencies; goes to work in a factory made safe by OSHA regulations; returns to his home that he could afford because of the mortgage tax deduction; a home that didn't burn down and which wasn't robbed because of fire and police protections; logs on to an Internet developed by the Pentagon and complains about how government can't do anything. He'll probably write me an e-mail telling me to keep the government's hands off of Medicare. -Let us insist,- George McGovern continued, -that government can, and must, solve problems ... that it can, and must set goals and define a vision for the nation.- And there are plenty of problems to solve. Stubborn unemployment; a growing disparity between rich and poor; persistent poverty and hunger; soaring health care costs; a planet threatened by the reality of climate change. Government alone won't solve these problems, of course. But neither will they be solved without good government - smart and thoughtful and appropriate government. But what about the debt, you may ask. What about runaway government spending? First, we must recognized that with all of the cuts we have already made, non-defense discretionary spending - everything from transportation to medical research to education - will be at the lowest levels as a percentage of our GDP since the Kennedy Administration. That's 50 years. Our long-term fiscal challenges - consisting primarily of the health care needs of an aging population - are real, and they must be addressed. But deficit reduction alone is not an economic policy, and the best way to reduce the deficit is to put people back to work and to grow our economy. It's about results. We can do this. And, one other thing, I've always believed that anti-waste means anti-war. We have paid too high a price in blood and treasure as a result of these unpaid-for-wars that we are still trying to extricate ourselves from. There are some in Washington who rattle the sabres of war everytime someone does something they don't like. But, I would argue, these wars are not making us more secure or enhancing our stature in the world. I believe that America's true power lies within our values. And so I leave you with some final words from my friend George McGovern. -The gravest threat today,- he said, -is not a foreign adversary, but an enemy within. That enemy is not a conspiracy or a fifth column. It is inside ourselves and among our leaders. It is the sense of futility. It is the dulled conscience. It is the lost vision.- So let us continue to work together to sharpen our collective conscience and to renew our vision. Let us insist that we can take on big problems and solve them. Let us be unafraid to fight for justice, fairness and peace. And let us strive to make Worcester - and America - the best they can be.
03.06.2013	...we're here to consider the rule for H.R. 933, the Continuing Resolution for the rest of Fiscal Year 2013. This is a disappointing bill, M. Speaker, and this is a disappointing process. share: f t Wednesday March 06, 2013U.S. Representative James P. McGovernStatement on Rule for consideration of H.R. 933March 6, 2013I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma, Mr. Cole, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself such time as I may consume.M. Speaker, we're here to consider the rule for H.R. 933, the Continuing Resolution for the rest of Fiscal Year 2013. This is a disappointing bill, M. Speaker, and this is a disappointing process.This continuing resolution is inadequate. It does not meet the needs of our people. And, because it does not address sequestration, it actually will hurt many millions of our people. The Department of Defense and the VA are given some flexibility to deal with the devastating sequestration cuts - but no other agency is given that tool.This is clearly a tacit statement by the Majority that they are going to keep this harmful sequester - one of the stupidest things to ever come out of Congress.And that, M. Speaker, is the disappointing part of this entire process. The Majority has had plenty of opportunity to address the sequester. Time after time, Democrats - through the efforts of the Ranking Democrat on the Budget Committee, Mr. Van Hollen - have offered a sequester alternative and time after time the Republican Majority has blocked this amendment from being debated and voted on by the House.Yet, the Republicans in Congress have yet to put forth a sequester alternative. Of course, they'll say that they've passed two different proposals but that was last Congress. But as my friends on the other side of the aisle know so well, legislation dies at the end of each Congress. Every two years, Congress repopulates and every bill must start over. There's no carry-over from one Congress to the next. We all learned that in the most basic political science class. So this claim that we did it last Congress is irrelevant to addressing the sequester that the Republicans let take effect last week.And let's remember the context of those two bills the House Republicans are so proud of. They were the result of, once again, the Republican leadership walking away from difficult bipartisan negotiations just at the moment when a deal seemed to be within reach. They were both completely partisan bills. And they were both dead on arrival in the Senate. So they were not genuine efforts to solve problems; they were all for show. They were simply political theater.On the other hand, at the end of the last Congress, the House Republican Leadership had a bipartisan, bicameral negotiated omnibus appropriations bill that would have taken us through Fiscal Year 13, the result of hundreds of hours of careful bipartisan negotiation. But the House Republicans wouldn't let that bill come to the floor for approval, a bill that would have passed the Senate and gone straight to the president's desk for signature. Instead, they chose to waste the House's time on its two highly-touted, highly partisan budget bills that went nowhere. But as I said - that was the last Congress, and we must now start all over to address the sequester and provide funding for the remainder of this fiscal year.Frankly, I don't know what the Republicans in the House are scared of. Speaker Boehner has moved past the Hastert Rule - the silly notion that a bill must only pass if it has a majority of the majority - and replaced it with selective bipartisanship. That's right, Speaker Boehner clearly believes that the House should operate under a process of selective bipartisanship. This means he turns to Democrats when he needs the votes to pass important bills, like he did for VAWA, the Fiscal Cliff and Hurricane Sandy relief - when only 49 Republicans out of 232 voted to help our fellow citizens on the east coast who were devastated by that storm. He should do the same thing with the sequester and allow the House to debate and vote on the Van Hollen amendment.Finally, M. Speaker, this is part of a broader Republican economic plan that is, to put it mildly, extremely disappointing. First, the Republicans brought us to the brink of economic mayhem with the fiscal cliff. At the last minute, the Senate swooped in to save the day with leadership and help from the Administration. Then House Republicans allowed the sequester to take effect, once again playing Russian roulette with our economy. Now we're going to consider this hybrid CR that just doesn't pass muster despite the best efforts of the appropriators.No one wants a government shutdown and we all know that some kind of bill funding the federal government through the end of the fiscal year will pass Congress before March 27th. The real fights are going to come in the next few weeks and months when the Republicans outline their budget priorities with the new Ryan budget and when the debt limit, once again, needs to be raised.What's clear is that the Republicans are hell-bent on cutting spending just for its own sake - no matter how mindless or senseless. We know that the economy is slowly rebounding and we also know that these cuts in government spending - federal, state and local - are taking their toll on the economy. Fourth quarter growth last year was reduced only because of reduced government spending - the cuts to cops, firefighters, teachers and other workers - showed up in that economic report.Now we're going to see a Republican budget that supposedly eliminates the deficit in 10 years. Call it the Ryan budget on steroids. It's going to cut Medicare, Food Stamps and nearly every non-defense discretionary program funded by the federal government. And during the debt ceiling debate, we'll see another attempt to arbitrarily cut these programs.M. Speaker, this is not a responsible way to govern. The Continuing Resolution before us today is just one more example of how the House Republicans are leading with their heads in the sand. Instead of working to jumpstart our economy, instead of engaging in true bipartisan negotiations, House Republicans continue to push on with misguided and ill-conceived budget cuts that do harm - but no good.Like I said, this is a disappointing bill and a disappointing effort. We should be considering an omnibus appropriations bill. We should work to replace the sequester. We should be thinking long-term about economic recovery. We should be putting country ahead of political party. Instead, once again, we're playing games with our economy. This is no way to run a government.I reserve the balance of my time.
03.05.2013	http://www.flickr.com/photos/46321539@N03/sets/72157632921504713/
03.05.2013	"Senator Roberts's proposal to gut SNAP by $36 billion is the wrong bill at the wrong time." share: f t For Immediate Release: March 5, 2013 U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's statement on Sen. Robert's SNAP bill -Senator Roberts's proposal to gut SNAP by $36 billion is the wrong bill at the wrong time. SNAP is among the most effective and efficient federal programs. There is no way to cut $36 billion from this important program without cutting benefits. And by cutting benefits, this bill would literally take food away from people who rely on SNAP to feed their families. That is unacceptable. We should be looking at constructive ways, like job creation and education, to reduce the reliance on SNAP rather than mean-spirited and arbitrary cuts that will worsen hunger in America.-
03.05.2013	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today his new district offices in Northampton and Leominster. share: f t MEDIA ADVISORYFebruary 21, 2013U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern opens new district offices in Leominster and Northampton; announces new staff hiresU.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today his new district offices in Northampton and Leominster. The Northampton ribbon-cutting, at 94 Pleasant Street, took place on Friday, February 22nd. The Leominster ribbon-cutting, in Room 29 of the Gallagher Building at 24 Church Street was Saturday, February 23rd.Rep. McGovern also announced today that he has hired three former staffers from retired U.S. Rep. John Olver's office to serve in the offices.Natalie Blais will serve as a District Representative in the Northampton office. Ms. Blais worked for Rep. Olver for more than seven years in various capacities including congressional aide, economic development specialist and district director of new media. She has been recognized by the New England Chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association for her efforts on behalf of constituents in the immigrant community. Ms. Blais has a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Dickinson College and a Master of Arts degree in organizational and political communication from Emerson College. Ms. Blais lives in Sunderland with her family.Keith Barnicle, who will also serve as a District Representative in the Northampton office, served Rep. Olver for five years as a congressional aide specializing in casework involving federal benefits and military service academy nominations. He is a recipient of the 2011 Congressional Staffer of the Year award from the Federal Executive Association of Western Massachusetts. Mr. Barnicle is a graduate of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and resides in Northampton.The Leominster office will be staffed by District Representative Eladia Romero, who previously served as a caseworker/outreach specialist for Rep. Olver in his Fitchburg district office for nearly twelve years, primarily handling immigration, social security and veterans' issues. She has also been a community liaison to numerous organizations in the area. Eladia is a resident of Leominster and has a Bachelor of Arts degree in liberal studies from Mount Ida College."My top priority as Congressman is to provide the highest quality constituent services possible. Keith, Natalie, and Eladia understand and appreciate the needs of the 2nd Congressional District, and will be superb representatives for my constituents. I couldn't be happier to have them - and their years of experience in the area - playing key roles on my team."
03.05.2013	On March 5th, the White House Visitors Office announced that due to staffing reductions resulting from sequestration, all White House Tours will be canceled effective Saturday, March 9, 2013 until further notice. share: f t On March 5th, the White House Visitors Office announced that due to staffing reductions resulting from sequestration, all White House Tours will be canceled effective Saturday, March 9, 2013 until further notice. Unfortunately, affected tours cannot be rescheduled. For updates regarding this situation, please contact the White House Visitors Office 24 Hour Hotline at (202) 456-7041.
03.05.2013	United States Representative Jim McGovern announced a $263,010 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Rutland Fire Department today. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern announces $263,010 grant for Rutland Fire DepartmentUnited States Representative Jim McGovern announced a $263,010 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Rutland Fire Department today. The grant will be used to purchase 2 rapid intervention packs to help support a trapped firefighter, 24 portable radios, 24 self contained breathing apparatus, and a diesel fume exhaust evacuation system for the Rutland Fire Station."This federal grant will greatly benefit Rutland," Rep. McGovern said. "Local first responders deserve with the resources they need to safely protect our communities. I believe that homeland security begins with hometown security, and I will continue to strongly support funding of this Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in Congress."FEMA Regional Fire Program Specialist David Parr commented, "Town and fire department officials in Rutland should be commended for submitting a successful application in a very competitive grant program. Out of 11,600 grant applications nationwide, only 600 including Rutland have been awarded to date."Rutland Chief Weber commented, "The town of Rutland Fire Department is very grateful to Congressman Jim McGovern for his continued support of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant, FEMA, and the Fire Service in general. The AFG Grant will make Rutland a safer community to work and live in. I would also like to recognize Firefighter Paramedic Mike Gleason and Captain Seth Knipe on writing a successful grant.""Rutland has repeatedly demonstrated their commitment to the highest level of public safety," said State Senator Stephen M. Brewer. "This funding will allow them to have the equipment necessary to best serve the residents of the community."The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. Since 2001, the AFG Program has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training."My sincere congratulations to the Chief and Rutland Fire Department for their hard work on a daily basis and for securing this grant. The grant was especially helpful in these difficult times when every penny counts," stated Representative Kimberly Ferguson (R-Holden).
03.04.2013	Today, I want to talk about hunger and obesity - and to the highlight the unfortunate paradox between these two conditions. share: f t Congressman James P. McGovern"The Paradox of Hunger and Obesity"March 4, 2013M. Speaker, in our efforts to End Hunger Now, it's important to look at all aspects of hunger. Today, I want to talk about hunger and obesity - and to the highlight the unfortunate paradox between these two conditions.How can an obese person also be food insecure? To put it bluntly, how can an overweight person be hungry? The question may be simple - but the answer isn't. Unfortunately, this link is all too prevalent among millions of low- and middle-income people.The simple truth is that hunger exists because people don't have enough money to buy enough healthy food. But obesity is more complex. Just because someone has enough money to buy food doesn't mean they have the resources to buy nutritious food. Ultimately, this is a problem of poverty in America.The families who struggle with hunger not only struggle to put food on their tables, they struggle to make the food they can afford on a few dollars a day as nutritious as possible.For a variety of reasons, even well-to-do families are finding it more difficult today to prepare nutritious meals. A big part has to do with the amount of widely available, inexpensive, non-nutritious food - high calorie, high fat, low nutrient food - and part of that has to do with the time constraints on families today.But it's even more difficult for low-income, food insecure families because they generally don't have access to full service grocery stores. The local stores they do have access to, for the most part, do not sell fresh produce and the fresh produce they do sell is expensive. So in order to stretch their food dollar, these families buy high calorie, low nutrient food that is more affordable.Obesity, like hunger, is often a function of poverty. And low-income families are especially vulnerable to obesity because of the additional risk factors associated with poverty. When taken together, these risk factors make it easy to see how obesity and hunger are related. There are at least four general risk factors for obesity that are associated with poverty.First, low-income neighborhoods are underserved by full-service supermarkets. In inner-cities, food is most readily available at small, neighborhood convenience stores where fresh produce and lower-fat food items are more limited. In rural areas, full-service grocery stores are many miles away. This is commonly referred to as a food desert - something that can exist in both urban and rural areas.Second, when healthy food is available, it is often times more expensive than less-healthy options. Low-income families must stretch their budgets in ways that make it difficult to purchase higher price, more nutritious food items. This means that these families are forced to buy cheaper, high calorie, high fat, high sodium food that lasts longer just so they can make their food budgets stretch through the month.Third, there are fewer opportunities for physical activity in neighborhoods and schools. Safe open space can be difficult to find in neighborhoods where lower-income families live, sometimes because of lack of parks and other times because of higher crime rates.Fourth, high levels of stress and limited access to health care can contribute to weight gain. Hunger is truly a health issue, something that I will focus on in a later speech, but it is important to note that stress and lack of access to quality health care can trigger physiological responses that contribute to obesity.M. Speaker, I often remind people that food is medicine. My grandmother used to say -an apple a day keeps the doctor away.- It used to annoy me - but she was right.We missed an opportunity during the Affordable Care Act the address the issues of hunger and nutrition. We must do so now. Adequate access to good nutritious foods can help lower the instances of diabetes and heart disease. That will improve the quality of life for people - but it will also save us money from avoidable health care issues. Hunger costs us dearly; and the costs to fix and solve the problem is cheaper than the status quo.To all my colleagues who believe the only problem we face is the budget deficit - I urge you to join us in this effort to End Hunger Now. It's the fiscally right thing to do - and it is our moral obligation.Hunger and obesity are two sides of the same coin. Yes, we have excellent anti-hunger safety net programs like SNAP and the school meal programs that help reduce the incidences of hunger in America. Yes, the First Lady's Let's Move Campaign is working to address obesity in America, primarily among children. But we must do more to address these two issues together. Because of all these factors, it's clear that we cannot simply address hunger or obesity - we must address both of these issues at the same time if we are going to End Hunger Now.It's why I believe we need a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition, a Presidential summit that brings all stakeholders together. A forum where we can develop and agree on one strategy to reduce hunger and obesity together.In addition, I would plead with my colleagues to not cut our anti-hunger safety net programs - like SNAP and WIC; programs which provide a minimal food benefit. To do so would only worsen the problem of hunger and obesity in America.We must End Hunger Now. But we cannot do so just by increasing access to high-calorie, low-nutrient food. It's a real challenge, but it's one we are capable of meeting. We just need to muster the political will to make it happen.I yield back the balance of my time.
02.28.2013	Today I am honored to join my esteemed colleagues, Representative Charles Boustany (R-LA), Representative Darrell Issa(R-CA) and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) in introducing the Cluster Munitions Civilian Protection Act of 2013. This bill will restrict the use and deployment of dangerous cluster munitions. share: f t CLUSTER MUNITIONS CIVILIAN PROTECTION ACT OF 2013HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN (MA)Thursday, February 28, 2013Mr. Speaker. Today I am honored to join my esteemed colleagues, Representative Charles Boustany (R-LA), Representative Darrell Issa(R-CA) and Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Patrick Leahy (D-VT) in introducing the Cluster Munitions Civilian Protection Act of 2013. This bill will restrict the use and deployment of dangerous cluster munitions.Cluster bombs are canisters designed to open in the air before making contact, dispersing between 200 and 400 small munitions that can saturate a radius of 250 yards. The bombs are intended for military use when attacking enemy troop formations, but are often used in or near populated areas. This is a problem because up to 40 percent of these bomblets fail to explode and become de facto landmines, posing a significant risk to civilians - particularly children - lasting years after a conflict ends.The Cluster Munitions Civilian Protection Act prevents any U.S. military funds from being used on cluster munitions with a failure rate of more than 1 percent, unless the rules of engagement specify that cluster munitions (1) will only be used against clearly defined military targets, and (2) will not be used where civilians are known to be present or in areas normally inhabited by civilians.The bill requires the president to report to Congress on the plan to clean up unexploded cluster munitions, and it includes a national security waiver allowing the president to waive the prohibition if he determines such a waiver is vital to national security.Mr. Speaker, current law prohibits U.S. sales, exports and transfers of cluster munitions that have a failure rate exceeding 1 percent. The law also requires any sale, export or transfer agreement to include a requirement that the cluster munitions will be used only against military targets. Regrettably, the Pentagon insists that the U.S. should continue to have the ability to use millions of stockpiled cluster munitions that have estimated failure rates of 5 to 20 percent until 2018. This is simply not acceptable; we can do better.I believe strongly that the United States should be an international leader in ending the terrible toll on civilian populations caused by the high failure rate of these weapons. Passage of this bill would establish in law the Pentagon's standard of a 99 percent functioning rate for all U.S. cluster munitions, and ensure that our deployment and use of these munitions adhere uniformly to this standard. We must do everything possible to spare innocent civilians intended for military targets. The current risk posed by cluster munitions is simply unacceptable.In 2011, Handicap International studied the effects of cluster bombs in 24 countries and regions, including Afghanistan, Chechnya, Laos and Lebanon. Its report found civilians make up 98 percent of those killed or injured by cluster bombs, and 27 percent of the casualties were children.The Oslo Convention on Cluster Munitions - which has been signed by 111 countries and ratified by 77 - prohibits the production, use and export of cluster munitions and requires signatories to eliminate their arsenals within eight years. While nearly all of our major military allies have joined this treaty, to date, the United States has not.There will always be those who will argue against such a change in military policy and practice, who will say this can't be done. History argues otherwise. I am hopeful that we can make significant progress on this issue and pass this legislation during the 113th Congress.
02.28.2013	Today, Rep. McGovern, along with Reps. Marcia Fudge (OH), Rosa DeLauro (CT), and George Miller (CA), introduced H. Res. 90. share: f t Thursday February 28, 2013Today, Rep. McGovern, along with Reps. Marcia Fudge (OH), Rosa DeLauro (CT), and George Miller (CA), introduced H. Res. 90.This bill states that the Committee on Agriculture should NOT propose any cuts to SNAP and also states that the House of Representatives should reject any bill that includes cuts to SNAP.Text of the bill is below. HR 90: Oppose SNAP cuts (02/28/13 12:55 PM PST)
02.26.2013	Once again, I rise to talk about the issue of hunger in America. There are over 50 million Americans who go hungry each year. That's about one in every six Americans who don't know where their meal is coming from on any given day. M. Speaker, that is unconscionable in the richest, most prosperous country in the world. share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern"A Place at the Table"February 26, 2013Once again, I rise to talk about the issue of hunger in America. There are over 50 million Americans who go hungry each year. That's about one in every six Americans who don't know where their meal is coming from on any given day. M. Speaker, that is unconscionable in the richest, most prosperous country in the world.Unfortunately, too many people simply don't know that there's a hunger problem in America. But that is going to change with a new documentary called "A Place at the Table."M. Speaker, this powerful film shows how hunger actually affects every day Americans. Specifically, "A Place at the Table" documents people from all walks of life - from inner city Philadelphia to rural Colorado - and it shows how they struggle not just to put healthy food on their kitchen tables but, in some cases, to put any food on the table at all.The film doesn't just show how people struggle with food. It shows how the lack of food impacts the health of children and the capacity for kids to pay attention and learn in class.In all candor, M. Speaker, I play a small part in this film and I'm pleased the filmmakers allowed me to give my thoughts on the problem of hunger in America and ways we can address it. But this film is not about my opinions; it's about the challenges facing the people in this movie.It's about how our country got to the place where over 50 million people - or one in six Americans -are food insecure or hungry. It's about how our legislative policies are not meeting the needs of the hungry, especially as low- and middle-income families continue to struggle during this economic recovery. It's about how parents and grandparents are trying to take care of their families but are falling short of doing so on their own. It's about how private organizations like churches and food banks are trying to fill in the gaps but are struggling to do so because the need that is so great.And ultimately, it's about how we as a nation have the chance to rise up and End Hunger Now. It's about how we can and must develop a plan to End Hunger Now.M. Speaker, we have the means to End Hunger Now. We have the food to End Hunger Now. We have the knowledge to End Hunger Now. We just haven't mustered the political will to End Hunger Now and we - Members of Congress - should all be ashamed that one person, let alone over 50 million, goes hungry in America.In 1968, CBS News broadcast an hour long program called "Hunger in America." It reshaped the view of hunger in this country. The day after that show aired, then-Senator George McGovern formed the Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and worked with Senator Bob Dole and President Richard Nixon to reduce hunger in America. They almost eradicated it completely but we've clearly regressed in the decades since.I hope "A Place at the Table," this critically important film, is the catalyst that jumpstarts a new effort to End Hunger Now. I believe we need White House leadership on this issue. I urge President Obama to watch this film and to follow up with a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition in order to tackle all the issues associated with hunger and nutrition and, specifically, to come up with a coordinated, unified plan to End Hunger Now. President Obama's leadership is critical if we're going to End Hunger Now.Directors Kristi Jacobson and Lori Silverbush, along with Executive Producer Tom Colicchio, have made a film that tells a powerful story. It's a story of a struggle in America, but a struggle we can overcome. It's a struggle to address a problem that we have the answer to. It's my hope that this film will spark a new movement to address both hunger and obesity so that we no longer see people struggling to put food on their table."A Place at the Table" is hard to watch because we all share the blame for the struggles faced by those in the film. I challenge anyone who watches it to walk away feeling unaffected. I've seen it many times already. I've been inspired by the individuals who are featured in the movie - people who struggle in poverty with great difficulty - and who struggle with great dignity.I am also frustrated and angered by the film. It shows our failures - our moral failures - to end the scourge of hunger. The title of the film is appropriate - we all have our Place at the Table, and we need to take that place in order to End Hunger Now.I yield back the balance of my time.
02.26.2013	Once again, I rise to talk about the issue of hunger in America. There are over 50 million Americans who go hungry each year. That's about one in every six Americans who don't know where their meal is coming from on any given day. M. Speaker, in the richest, most prosperous country in the world, that is unconscionable. Unfortunately, too many people simply don't know that there's a hunger problem in America. But that is going to change with a new documentary called -A Place at the Table.- M. Speaker, this powerful film shows how hunger actually affects everyday Americans. Specifically, -A Place at the Table- documents people from all walks of life - from inner city Philadelphia to rural Colorado - and it shows how they struggle not just to put healthy food on their kitchen tables but, in some cases, to put any food on the table at all. The film doesn't just show how people struggle with food. It shows how the lack of food impacts the health of children and the capacity for kids to pay attention and learn in class. In all candor, M. Speaker, I play a small part in this film and I'm pleased the filmmakers allowed me to give my thoughts on the problem of hunger in America and ways we can address it. But this film is not about my opinions; it's about the challenges facing the people in this movie. It's about how our country got to the place where over 50 million people - or one in six Americans -are food insecure or hungry. It's about how our legislative policies are not meeting the needs of the hungry, especially as low- and middle-income families continue to struggle during this economic recovery. It's about how parents and grandparents are trying to take care of their families but are falling short of doing so on their own. It's about how private organizations like churches and food banks are trying to fill in the gaps but are struggling to do so because the need is so great. And ultimately, it's about how we as a nation have the chance to rise up and End Hunger Now. It's about how we can and must develop a plan to End Hunger Now. M. Speaker, we have the means to End Hunger Now. We have the food to End Hunger Now. We have the knowledge to End Hunger Now. We just haven't mustered the political will to End Hunger Now and we - Members of Congress - should all be ashamed that one person, let alone over 50 million, goes hungry in America. In 1968, CBS News broadcast an hour long program called -Hunger in America.- It reshaped the view of hunger in this country. The day after that show aired, then-Senator George McGovern formed the Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and worked with Senator Bob Dole and President Richard Nixon to reduce hunger in America. They almost eradicated it completely but we've clearly regressed in the decades since. I hope -A Place at the Table,- this critically important film, is the catalyst that jumpstarts a new effort to End Hunger Now. I believe we need White House leadership on this issue. I urge President Obama to watch this film and to follow up with a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition in order to tackle all the issues associated with hunger and nutrition and, specifically, to come up with a coordinated, unified plan to End Hunger Now. President Obama's leadership is critical if we're going to End Hunger Now. Directors Kristi Jacobson and Lori Silverbush, along with Executive Producer Tom Colicchio, have made a film that tells a powerful story. It's a story of a struggle in America, but a struggle we can overcome. It's a struggle to address a problem that we have the answer to. It's my hope that this film will spark a new movement to address both hunger and obesity so that we no longer see people struggling to put food on their table. -A Place at the Table- is hard to watch because we all share the blame for the struggles faced by those in the film. I challenge anyone who watches it to walk away feeling unaffected. I've seen it many times already. I've been inspired by the individuals who are featured in the movie - people who struggle in poverty with great difficulty - and who struggle with great dignity. I am also frustrated and angered by the film. It shows our failures - our moral failures - to end the scourge of hunger. The title of the film is appropriate - we all have our Place at the Table, and we need to take that place in order to End Hunger Now. I yield back the balance of my time.
02.20.2013	Reps. Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) today pressed House leadership to protect the vital Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) from further cuts if the automatic budget cuts in the so-called “sequester” go into effect starting on March 1. share: f t Wednesday February 20, 2013(February 20, 2013) - Reps. Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) today pressed House leadership to protect the vital Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) from further cuts if the automatic budget cuts in the so-called -sequester- go into effect starting on March 1. If sequestration goes forward, families participating in LIHEAP will face an additional $177 million in benefit cuts. That is on top of the $1.6 billion in reductions to the program that have occurred since 2010.The letter was sent to House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), Majority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), and the top two leaders of the Appropriations Committee, Harold Rogers (R-Kent.) and Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.)/-Less funding, in the face of rising heating oil and natural gas prices, will have a devastating impact on millions of families already suffering through a slow economic recovery,- write the lawmakers. -No one should have to choose between heating and eating this winter. Yet for low-income families, veterans, and seniors who rely upon this program across the country, this choice is too often their harsh reality. We must ensure that the poorest and most vulnerable families continue to receive help.-Last week, Rep. Markey released a report on the effects of the sequester on Massachusetts, finding that LIHEAP would be cut by $6.7 million.
02.14.2013	On February 5th, Congressman McGovern began his series of "End Hunger Now" speeches to bring attention to the issue of hunger in America. This is the second speech in a series. share: f t Thursday February 14, 2013President Obama's fourth State of the Union was memorable and important for a number of reasons. I'm pleased the president talked about gun violence, climate change, voting rights, and, of course, jobs and the economy.I'm especially pleased that, for the first time in more than a decade, the State of the Union had a real focus on poverty and the need to help those who, economically, are the most vulnerable in our nation.Poverty is the root cause of many of our nation's problems. Those in poverty face challenges that middle- and higher-income families simply don't have to face. And, to be frank, there are too many voices in Congress that are silent on this issue.So I commend the President for talking about poverty, which we must confront and address if we are to truly fulfill our mandate to form a more perfect union.One of the most devastating effects of poverty is hunger, and we cannot End Hunger Now if we're not talking about it. This is a big problem. This is a problem that is not going away unless we act.M. Speaker, over 50 million people are hungry in America - more than 50 million who struggle to put food their tables. Many of these are hard-working people whose jobs just do not pay enough to feed their families. We need to use every opportunity we have to talk about it, to shine a light on the plight of the hungry, to take hunger out of the shadows and rededicate ourselves to the need to End Hunger Now.As I said last week, just because over 50 million people in this country struggle to put food on their tables doesn't mean that we have mass starvation in America. Thankfully, we have developed a safety net that helps protect the vast majority of the hungry.There are a myriad of different initiatives being used to combat hunger in America. These are public, private and non-profit initiatives that are all very successful in their own ways. The problem is that these efforts - from federal to state to local governments; from non-profits like churches and food banks to for-profit businesses - are working independently of each other; they are not connected.M. Speaker, we need to work smarter and more efficiently if we're going to End Hunger Now.We need to bring everyone together and connect the dots.We need a plan.That's why I've called for a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition.Over the years, there have been citywide, countywide and statewide hunger summits. Food banks, hospitals, colleges and universities have all held these events. But there hasn't been one nationwide hunger summit, convened by the White House, since President Nixon hosted such a summit in 1969 - over 44 years ago!We need this conference today more than ever. Because hunger is getting worse in America, not better. Our deficit and debt are forcing us to do more with less, and that means we need to be more efficient and streamlined with our resources. Our federal agencies should be talking to each other and addressing hunger in a more comprehensive way.Why shouldn't the Departments of Labor, of Health and Human Services, of Housing and Urban Development, and, yes, the Department of Defense sit down and talk about the impact hunger and nutrition have on their efforts and how they can best address the problem?As these agencies coordinate, we will need to involve anti-hunger safety net non-profits like our food banks, religious institutions, schools and hospitals. And we need to bring in the business community, including the food and beverage industry, financial institutions and manufacturers.We need to bring our doctors, nurses, teachers, pastors, business leaders, politicians and - yes - the hungry together in one room to develop one plan to End Hunger Now. And then we need to agree to implement and execute that plan.M. Speaker, hunger is a political condition. We have the means and knowledge to End Hunger Now, we just don't have the political will. And while hunger is a political condition, it shouldn't be a partisan issue. A White House Conference on Food and Nutrition is the forum that we need to galvanize political will to finally end hunger in America.Ending hunger takes bold leadership. It takes Presidential leadership. Because the President is the only one who can call everyone together, who can get everyone in the same room and on the same page in order to come up with one meaningful and achievable plan. We need the President to rise to the occasion and say that we are going to End Hunger Now.M. Speaker, I call on the White House to host a Conference on Food and Nutrition. I call on the White House to commit to ending hunger in America just as they are working to reduce obesity and improve nutrition. I call on the White House to End Hunger Now.I yield back the balance of my time.
02.13.2013	Delivered at a half-day conference sponsored by the International Forum for Democratic Studies at the National Endowment for Democracy and the Project on Middle East Democracy. share: f t Thank you, Carl, for your introduction. I am grateful to you and to everyone at the National Endowment for Democracy who has worked so hard to organize today's important conference on the -Prospects for Democracy in the Gulf States.- Thanks especially to those at NED's International forum for Democratic Studies and to NED's partners at the Project on Middle East Democracy. I also want to recognize our very special guests from Bahrain and Saudi Arabia, some of whom I had the pleasure of meeting yesterday. Your participation in this forum is critical for fostering a true and comprehensive discussion of democracy in the Middle East. Thank you for being here. I am grateful to have the opportunity this morning to help call attention to the continuing struggle for democracy and human rights in Bahrain. As most of you know, tomorrow marks the second anniversary of the popular uprising in that country. Like many peoples across the Middle East, Bahrainis, especially its Shi'a majority, began a call that day for change to Bahrain's political and economic structures that have long treated them as second-class citizens. They called for respect for their fundamental human rights, including their rights to peacefully assemble and to freely express their political beliefs without fear of reprisal. Unfortunately, reprisal was how the Government of Bahrain chose to respond in February 2011 and, regrettably, it has continued to do so throughout the past two years with sometimes shocking brutality. As the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry - or BICI [Bee-eye-see-eye] - confirmed in November 2011, the Bahraini authorities systematically used excessive force against protesters during the period of February to March 2011. Based on the 9,000 testimonies that the BICI obtained, the widely-respected document reported 46 deaths, 559 allegations of torture, as well as forced confessions, and the unjust prosecution of medical personnel who treated injured protesters - a flagrant violation of the principal of medical neutrality. All this is in addition to the wrongful termination, en masse, of employees, mostly Shiites, suspected to have participated in the protests. As Co-chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives, I have had the opportunity to hear from individuals who experienced the heavy-handed tactics of Bahrain's security forces. In a meeting with the Commission, one Bahraini medical doctor described how security forces in the country had at various times used tear gas against demonstrators in a lethal manner. In the doctor's words, -I saw bodies destroyed by tear gas canisters fired at close range. We did not know how to treat the wounds because we had never before seen such injuries.- In response to the BICI, the Government of Bahrain has made some progress. Bahrain accepted the criticisms of the report and established a National Commission to implement the document's 26 recommendations. Although the National Commission's progress has received criticism for its insufficient progress, it has taken some positive steps to conform to the BICI's recommendations. Specifically, the government has transferred some trials from military to civilian courts, it has reinstated over 92 percent of fired workers, it has produced a new code of police conduct, and it has established a compensation fund for the victims of torture that has settled at least 17 cases and awarded more than $2.6 million to claimants. Yet even as the National Commission has worked to implement the recommendations of the BICI, cases of human rights abuses and impunity have continued. In particular, the recommendations calling for accountability at all levels of the chain of command for human rights abuses, the integration of all Bahraini communities into the security forces, and the release of all individuals who have engaged only in peaceful political expression have not been implemented. Just yesterday, I met with Maryam Al-Khawaja, the daughter of one of these prisoners, Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, the former president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights. Arrested on April 9, 2011, he was sentenced to life imprisonment later that summer. Abdulhadi experienced physical and psychological torture, a 110-day hunger strike, and indefinite terms of imprisonment. Yet throughout his ordeal, he has continued to call for peaceful resistance. Last month, Bahrain's highest appeals court upheld his conviction and life sentence, as well as those of 13 other prominent activists. Currently, their only hope for release is a highly unlikely pardon from the King. In another case, Nabeel Rajab, Abdulhadi's successor as President of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights and Director of the Gulf Center for Human Rights, is now serving a three-year prison sentence for participating in protests against the government. Rajab is a prisoner of conscience, jailed solely for peacefully exercising his right to freedom of expression and assembly. Mr. Rajab's recent convictions and the upholding of the military verdict against opposition figures are evidence that the Kingdom's promises of reform and dialogue have not been fulfilled. As part of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission's new Defending Freedom's Project, I have adopted Nabeel as a prisoner of conscience, and I am dedicated to seeing his conviction overturned and his immediate release secured. I was also deeply concerned to learn last August at a Commission hearing looking at the implementation of the BICI that security forces continue to conduct raids on the homes of suspected dissidents and protesters. I find very disturbing the government's decision last October to impose a ban on all public demonstrations. Credible sources confirm that journalists and NGOs continue to face difficulty trying to enter Bahrain. Meanwhile, the Government of Bahrain has moved forward with stripping the citizenship of many individuals in Bahrain, effectively rendering its own people stateless. But let's be very clear: we cannot limit our concern for peace and democracy in Bahrain to the implementation of the BICI recommendations. Even if fully implemented, the report does not address the inadequate distribution of political power or the systematic discrimination of Bahrain's Shi'a majority - both of which have driven popular uprisings in Bahrain, even before February 2011. Although the Government of Bahrain's willingness to engage in a -National Dialogue- allowed it to move in the right direction, true peace and security depends on the opportunity for all Bahrainis to participate fully in Bahrain's political and economic life. The issue of full political participation is currently at the forefront, as the King of Bahrain recently extended an invitation to opposition parties to resume talks on political reforms as part of a National Consensus Dialogue. In July 2011, Bahrain's main opposition party, Al Wefaq, withdrew from negotiations because the opposition was given only limited representation during the talks. In spring 2011, President Obama went so far as to say -you can't have a real dialogue when parts of the peaceful opposition are in jail.- At this time, key members of Bahrain's political community remain imprisoned and prevented from participating. Opposition leaders like Nabeel Rajab and Abdulhadi al-Khawaja must be allowed to attend and provide the critical perspective of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights. Also, Ibrahim Sharif, the most prominent Sunni opposition figure and the head of the largest secular opposition party, must be permitted to join. His participation would demonstrate that the democratic demands of the opposition are neither exclusively Shi'a nor connected to Iran, as Bahrain has asserted. For the government's part, it should send representatives with the willingness and authority to constructively engage opposition leadership. Bahrain has said it is -ready to sit at the table of dialogue, keen on reaching a final and comprehensive national consensus.- I implore the Government of Bahrain to show its commitment for such discourse by putting an end to the silencing of important political voices. The violent suppression of the voices of the majority in Bahrain will not end the political polarization of the country. And let me be clear, it is polarization and exclusion that are the real threats to U.S. strategic interests, including the basing of the U.S. Navy's Fifth Fleet, because it is polarization and exclusion that threaten stability. If we have learned anything from the last two years, it's that you can't keep a lid on a boiling pot; sooner or later, it will explode. We know that backing autocracies instead of agents for democracy can have dire consequences. Support for autocratic rule in the name of stability is ultimately an unsustainable strategy and a dangerous myth, especially in a region as volatile as the Middle East and Northern Africa. The U.S. must stand ready to send a clear message to Bahrain that its repressive crackdown on human rights has consequences. We can do this, first, by refusing to strengthen and build capacity of a government that uses it to repress its own people. The Administration has previously put on hold the sale of arms that could be used against protesters, but we resumed sales of more sophisticated weapons systems in May 2012. A complete ban on arms sales would send the clear message that there is no national security without respect for human rights; you can't have one without the other. We must be willing to tell the Al Khalifah regime that, if repression of political voices continues to produce social instability, Bahrain will no longer meet our standards for basing our Fifth Fleet there, and we will actively pursue relocation of our ships. We cannot, we should not allow these -friendly tyrants,- as Carl Gershman has called them, to blackmail the U.S. into condoning their egregious repressions. By turning a blind eye to Bahrain's blatant abuse of human rights, we perpetrate a double standard, which is unacceptable and unsustainable, if we want to continue to claim being the world's flagship for democracy. We must show Bahrain that we stand with those who welcome meaningful reform and constructive dialogue and that our true strategic allies are those engaged in democratic change in Bahrain, as they are the true agents of peace and security in the region. There are many models of more democratic monarchies in the world; while change is necessary, Bahrain's monarchy need not be threatened by the need to embrace that change. There is no more time to play political games. I urge the Bahraini government to show its true will to resolve this issue in a democratic way once and for all; to come to the negotiating table; and to invite genuine representation of its opposition to join them there. Changing the status quo is never easy and it requires a great deal of work, commitment, and vision. But the Bahraini government needs to understand that suppressing democratic change is no longer an option and that the cruel silencing of dissent is not only futile, it threatens our mutual interests in peace and stability in the region.
02.05.2013	On February 5th, Rep. Jim McGovern delivered his first in a series of speeches on the campaign to "End Hunger Now." share: f t U.S. Representative James P. McGovern"End Hunger Now"February 5, 2013Mr. Speaker -I rise today to talk about the problem of hunger in America. M. Speaker, we are the richest, most prosperous nation in the world. Yet, the sad fact is that in 2013 more than 50 million people in this country are considered food insecure by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.Food insecurity, Mr. Speaker, is a technical term for the hungry. That's right; there are more than 50 million hungry people in this country. We cannot - we should not - stand for this.It's time we end hunger now.Certainly, our fragile economy has a lot to do with the high levels of hunger. Millions of people either lost their jobs or saw their wages fall. Food and energy prices went up. For many middle- and low-income families, everyday costs like rent, utilities and food became more difficult and, in many cases, families were forced to choose between things like food and electricity.But even before the recession started, tens of millions of Americans went hungry at some point during the year. That, too, is unconscionable.And when we turn this economy around - and our economy will rebound - we need to make sure that people don't fall through the cracks again.We need to end hunger now.We may not be able to wipe out all disease. We probably can't eliminate all war. But we can end hunger now, if we make the commitment to do so.We have the resources. We know what it takes. We just have to muster the will to end hunger once and for all. Hunger is a political condition.It's important to point out that even though over 50 million people were food insecure, the vast majority had a safety net that prevented them from actually starving.That safety net is called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. Formerly known as Food Stamps, SNAP is a program that provides low-income families with food that they otherwise could not afford to buy.Last year, over 47 million families relied on SNAP to feed their families. SNAP is literally a lifeline for these 47 million people who struggle to make ends meet. I don't deny that this is a big number, but it's a big number because it's a big problem.Mr. Speaker, America's hunger problem would be dramatically worse without SNAP. Just imagine what this country would look like if we didn't have the safety net that SNAP provides for low-income families in this country.Our churches, synagogues and mosques do their best to help feed families who need help, but they can't do it on their own. There are non-profits and food banks that do as much as they can, but they can't do it on their own. The private sector simply cannot meet the need. And with the economy not expected to fully recover for some time, we know that there will continue to be those who struggle to afford food. These are the people we need to worry about, the people we must help, the people who need their neighbors to lend a helping hand.SNAP, M. Speaker, is that helping hand.Relying on SNAP is no walk in the park. It's not champagne and caviar. No, M. Speaker, the truth is that average SNAP benefit is less than $1.50 per meal. That doesn't buy a whole lot of healthy, nutritious food.And there's a common misconception - some would say it's a purposeful mischaracterization - that SNAP promotes a culture of dependency. Some detractors even talk about SNAP like it's a golden ticket, that getting on SNAP is like winning the lottery - everything's taken care of forever.Give me a break.People don't want a handout. They don't want to rely on government assistance. No, M. Speaker, people want to provide for themselves and their families. That's why half of all new SNAP participants receive benefits for 10 months or less and 74 percent actually left the program entirely within 2 years.I don't know why there is such a vitriolic opposition to this important program by some here in Congress. Nor do I understand why some of my colleagues believe we should balance the budget by cutting programs that help the most vulnerable. The truth is that without SNAP, people would go hungry because they are poor.83% of families on SNAP make less than $24,000 a year for a family of 4. Less than $24,000 a year. I challenge anyone in this body to live off of that income for a year.Our budgetary challenges are clear. We need to tackle the debt and the deficit. But we need to do so smartly and with reason. There's a reason not one single bipartisan deficit plan proposed - from Simpson-Bowles to the sequester - cut SNAP. That's because SNAP is the most effective and efficient anti-hunger program we have. That's because cutting SNAP will literally take food away from families in this country. That's because the authors of these plans - from liberal Democrats to conservative Republicans - all recognize the importance of this program.Yet, there are those who would want to undermine this and other programs that provide a circle of protection for those in need. It is time for a nationwide effort to end the scourge of hunger. I call on the President to coordinate a White House Conference on Food and Nutrition so we can devise a plan. I call on the leaders of Congress to support such an initiative.We must do more.End hunger now. End hunger now. End hunger now.We can do this.We must do this.I yield back the balance of my time.
01.31.2013	Representatives Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), James McGovern (MA-2), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Ed Perlmutter (CO-7), and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) sent a letter to President Obama urging him to call for a constitutional amendment to address the Citizens United ruling during his State of the Union address. share: f t Thursday January 31, 2013Representatives Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), James McGovern (MA-2), Ted Deutch (FL-21), Ed Perlmutter (CO-7), and Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) sent a letter to President Obama urging him to call for a constitutional amendment to address the Citizens United ruling during his State of the Union address. The Representatives are part of the House Democratic Caucus's Task Force on Election Reform, and have all led in the effort to regulate political spending and the influence of money in the political process."It is imperative that Congress consider constitutional remedies to once-and-for-all close the door to unlimited corporate and individual spending in our elections," said Rep. Edwards. "President Obama and a majority of the American people recognize the corrosive impact unregulated spending is having on our democracy. We ask that the President use the unique opportunity of the State of the Union to make the case for a constitutional amendment. The voices of the American people cannot afford to be drowned out by unlimited special interest money in another election cycle.""The simple fact is this: there is way too much special-interest money in our political system right now," Rep. McGovern said. "The Supreme Court's dreadful decision in Citizens United compels us to act. There are a variety of thoughtful approaches to addressing this problem. At the very least, we need to have a serious debate. And the President has a wonderful opportunity in his State of the Union to jumpstart that discussion.""All of the admirable goals President Obama outlined in his inaugural address, from fighting global climate change to protecting Social Security and Medicare, are threatened by the limitless influence of big money in politics," said Rep. Deutch. "At the same time the President is preparing his State of the Union address, special interests are preparing to unleash new lobbying efforts in Congress that thanks to Citizens United are now backed by the threat of multimillion corporate attack campaigns. With the 2012 election behind us it is important for President Obama to reassert his support for amending the Constitution and restoring integrity to our system of self-government."Rep. Perlmutter stated, "The Citizens United decision is widely credited with the prolific rise in Super PACs and unprecedented money spent by corporations and outside interest groups to influence the 2012 elections. In Colorado alone, unknown special interest groups and donors spent more than $80 million solely on television advertising in the Presidential race in 2012. Amending the Constitution is one of several options to help restore transparency, accountability and fairness to our American elections."Rep. Kaptur stated, "Campaign fundraising and spending is out of control, and it's drowning out the voices of ordinary Americans. If campaign spending is a funnel, then Ohio is at the receiving end this election cycle, awash in nasty campaign ads from every imaginable source.""The time is now for a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United and give our government back to its rightful owners--the people of the United States."The full text of the letter is included. Letter to President Obama on Citizens United (01/31/13 02:14 PM PST)
01.29.2013	Congressman Jim McGovern issued the following statement upon the confirmation of Senator John Kerry as the next Secretary of State. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern issued the following statement upon the confirmation of Senator John Kerry as the next Secretary of State."John Kerry has been an incredibly effective and dedicated senator for our Commonwealth, and I am sad to see him go. But I know the country -- indeed the world -- will be a better place for his service as Secretary of State. I have great confidence in his ability to lead our diplomatic efforts and to help create a more peaceful, just and tolerant world."
01.22.2013	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today introduced two Constitutional amendments to overturn the Supreme Court's decision in the Citizens United case, which unleashed a flood of corporate and special interest money into the American political system. share: f t Tuesday January 22, 2013U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today introduced two Constitutional amendments to overturn the Supreme Court's decision in the Citizens United case, which unleashed a flood of corporate and special interest money into the American political system.The first amendment, HJ Res 20, advances the fundamental principle of political equality for all by empowering Congress and the States to regulate political spending. It will allow Congress to pass campaign finance reform legislation that will withstand Constitutional challenges.The second amendment, HJ Res 21 , would overturn Citizens United and put a stop to the growing trend of corporations claiming first amendment rights. This -People's Rights Amendment- not only addresses corporate rights as they pertain to campaign finance, but is broader in scope to clarify that corporations are not people with Constitutional rights. Importantly, the amendment clearly protects the people's rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free exercise of religion, freedom of association, and all other such rights of the people.-The American people are deeply troubled by the growing influence of corporations in our political discourse,- Rep. McGovern said. -They are also demanding action on campaign finance reform - because they are repulsed by the large amount of money in our campaigns. And, quite frankly, they want elected officials to spend more time on policy, on debating and deliberating on issues - and less time dialing for dollars.-We need to have a serious, thoughtful debate in this country about this important issue,- Rep. McGovern said. -I hope that my amendments will begin to spur that debate.-The video of his floor speech, along with a copy of his remarks as prepared is below.The text of the two amendments is attached below.Remarks on the introduction of campaign finance reform and corporate personhood legislationRepresentative James P. McGovernJanuary 22, 2013M. Speaker, three years have passed since the Supreme Court's dreadful Citizens United decision, and we have seen a dramatic increase in the amount of corporate money flowing into our elections, drowning out the voices of ordinary American citizens eager to participate in the political process.Citizens Unitedalso epitomizes the so-called -corporate personhood- movement in which some now say that corporations are people. The fact is, corporations are not people, and the Constitution was never intended to give corporations the same rights as the American people. Corporations don't breath. They don't have kids. They don't die in wars.My constituents continue to express concern about the growing influence of corporations in our political discourse. They are also demanding action on campaign finance reform - because they are repulsed by the large amount of money in our campaigns. And, quite frankly, they want elected officials to spend more time on policy, on debating and deliberating on issues - and less time dialing for dollars.Unfortunately, the Republican leadership in the House has failed to address these pressing issues during the past two years. They have been indifferent. We haven't had the opportunity to vote on any legislation to curb the influence of unlimited and sometimes secret corporate money flowing into our elections. We haven't even had the opportunity to address these issues in Committee hearings or mark-ups.Recently, I joined 18 of my colleagues on a letter to Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers of the Judiciary Committee requesting a hearing to explore Constitutional Amendment proposals in response to Citizens United and related cases. I hope we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues in the coming weeks and months. This is, after all, the people's house - and this is the place where we ought to discuss the concerns of the people.Members of the Democratic Caucus have been working to reform our campaign finance system and restore the rights of the American people that were undermined by the Citizens United decision. We have sponsored and cosponsored legislation to address the growing influence of money in our democratic process.As a member of the Task Force on Election Reform, I am proud to join my colleagues in working to rein in corporate spending and address unregulated money flowing into our elections.Today I am introducing two Constitutional Amendments. The People's Rights Amendment would overturn Citizens United and put a stop to the growing trend of corporations claiming first amendment rights. This amendment not only addresses corporate rights as they pertain to campaign finance, but is broader in scope to clarify that corporations are not people with Constitutional rights.Importantly, my amendment clearly protects the people's rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free exercise of religion, freedom of association, and all other such rights of the people.My second Amendment advances the fundamental principle of political equality for all by empowering Congress and the States to regulate political spending. It will allow Congress to pass campaign finance reform legislation that will withstand Constitutional challenges.M. Speaker, we need to empower people - not corporations or big monied special interests. Our current system has been corrupted - It undermines the rights of ordinary citizens. The preamble to the Constitution is -we the people.- Let us hope this Congress doesn't forget that.I ask my colleagues to join me in supporting these important bills to reform our campaign finance laws and ensure that corporate rights do not trump people's rights.HJRes20HJRes21
01.18.2013	Today Congressman Jim McGovern joined Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards, Congressman Ted Deutch and several other colleagues in announcing that members of the task force have joined in signing a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, urging them to hold a hearing on constitutional remedies to address the consequences of Citizens United. share: f t Thursday January 17, 2013Today Congressman Jim McGovern joined Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards, Congressman Ted Deutch and several other colleagues in announcing that members of the task force have joined in signing a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, urging them to hold a hearing on constitutional remedies to address the consequences of Citizens United.The letter is attatched. Task Force Letter (01/18/13 10:04 AM PST)
01.18.2013	"I fully understand, respect and admire Tim Murray's decision to not seek the Governor's office in 2014. The greatest service any of us can render is to care for our families..." share: f t Friday January 18, 2013STATEMENT BY U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ON LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR MURRAY"I fully understand, respect and admire Tim Murray's decision to not seek the Governor's office in 2014. The greatest service any of us can render is to care for our families. Today, Tim has chosen to forego this particular campaign to spend more time with Tammy so that together they can focus on their young daughters. That takes both courage and character. I have never met a harder working public servant of the people than Tim Murray and I still believe he has a bright political future. I look forward to continue working with him and Governor Patrick throughout the remainder of this term as they fight everyday to make the Commonwealth of Massachusetts a better place."
01.09.2013	Rep. McGovern's First floor speech of the 113th Congress, Overturn Citizens United. share: f t Thursday January 03, 2013
01.09.2013	United States Representative Jim McGovern announced a $76,000 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Paxton Fire Department today. share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASEJANUARY 9, 2013CONTACT: Scott Zoback (774-329-9501)Congressman Jim McGovern announces $76,000 grant for Paxton Fire DepartmentUnited States Representative Jim McGovern announced a $76,000 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's FEMA Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program to the Paxton Fire Department today. The grant will be used to purchase eight automatic external defibrillators and two cardiac monitors."This federal grant is excellent news for Paxton," Rep. McGovern said. "It's critical that we provide local first responders with the resources they need to protect our communities. I believe that homeland security begins with hometown security, and I will continue to strongly support funding of this Assistance to Firefighters Grant program in Congress."FEMA Regional Fire Program Specialist David Parr commented, "Paxton fire officials should be congratulated for being awarded this grant. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is extremely competitive, with some 11,661 applications submitted nationwide for this grant funding, yet only about 1,000 grants will be awarded.""We are thrilled to receive this $76,000 grant," said Paxton Town Administrator Carol Riches. "It will fund the replacement of outdated defibrillators that are vital to our EMS and Fire and Police Department.""Paxton has demonstrated their commitment to the highest level of public safety here," said State Senator Stephen M. Brewer. "This funding will allow them to have the equipment necessary to best serve the residents of the community.""I'd like to thank the Congressman for his work on this, and congratulate the Paxton Fire Department and EMS for receiving this grant. Especially in today's difficult financial times, any bit of money we can receive is important, and I'm happy they'll be able to purchase this equipment to help the people of Paxton and the region."The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. Since 2001, the AFG Program has provided approximately $5.25 billion in grants to first-responder organizations to obtain much-needed emergency response equipment, personal protective equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, and training.
12.27.2012	
12.27.2012	FEW Releases Scorecard for 112th Congress Second Session; McGovern named Federal Worker Champion Federally Employed Women (FEW) has released the results of its scorecard for the second session of the 112th Congress and is happy to report that it reflects a large number of perfect and 90% scores. -It is because of the hard work of the grassroots advocacy efforts that we were able to keep our numbers high for a second year in a row of federal worker supporters on Capitol Hill,- wrote Michelle Crockett, FEW's National President in her message to members. -However, we are far from out of the woods - especially considering the lame-duck session after the November elections - and we need to keep up the pressure,- Crockett warned. In addition, it is clear from these scores that federal worker and women's issues continue to be, for the most part, partisan. -The vast majority of scores were either 30% or 90% or 100% broken down by party and very similar to last year's scores,- explained Janet Kopenhaver, FEW's Washington Representative. -This means we still have a lot of work to do to change the scores of legislators' views whose ratings did not improve at all this year,- Kopenhaver added. This year, 45 legislators in the House and 3 in the Senate earned perfect scores and an impressive 99 House members scored 90% and 7 did so in the Senate. In addition, FEW wants to extend a special thank-you to several -Federal Worker Champions- who have made the top list for four, five and six consecutive years. In the House, they are: Reps. Stephen Cohen (TN-9), Elijah Cummings (MD-7) and John Sarbanes (MD-3) who made the list for six years; Reps. Jim McGovern (MA-3), Wm. Lacy Clay (MO-1) and Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) for five years; and Reps. Janice Schakowsky (IL-9); Tammy Baldwin (WI-2) and Gerry Connolly (VA-11) for four years. In the Senate, the Champions are Sen. Frank Lautenberg (NJ) who achieved top status for five consecutive years; and Sens. Barbara Boxer (CA) and Robert Menendez (NJ) who made the list for four consecutive years. To view the entire list of Honorable Legislators and rankings of all legislators, click here - http://www.eyeonwashington.com/successes/FEWScorecard112second.pdf.
12.20.2012	United States Representative Jim McGovern announced today that his Attleboro, Fall River, and Marlborough offices will stop accepting new casework after December 21, 2012, and will officially close as of December 31, 2012, due to redistricting. share: f t United States Representative Jim McGovern announced today that his Attleboro, Fall River, and Marlborough offices will stop accepting new casework after December 21, 2012, and will officially close as of December 31, 2012, due to redistricting. In an effort to assure continuity of representation, relevant casework and information will be transferred to the new Congressional offices representing each affected community as of January 3, 2012. Residents in Clinton and Marlborough will now be in the 3rd Congressional District. Inquiries should be directed to Congresswoman Niki Tsongas. www.tsongas.house.gov Lowell, MA Office 11 Kearney Square, 3rd Floor Lowell, MA 01852 Phone: (978) 459-0101 Residents in Attleboro, Fall River*, Franklin, Hopkinton, Medway, North Attleboro, Plainville, Rehoboth, Seekonk, Somerset, Swansea, Wrentham will now be in the 4th Congressional District, and will be able to contact Congressman Joe Kennedy III after January 3rd. In the meantime, inquiries should be directed to Senator John Kerry. Kerry.senate.gov Boston, MA Office One Bowdoin Square, 10th Floor Boston, MA 02114 Phone: 617.565.8519 Some residents of Fall River will now be in the 9th Congressional District. Inquiries should be directed to Congressman William Keating. Keating.house.gov Quincy, MA Office 1250 Hancock Street, Suite 802N Quincy, MA 02169 Phone: 617.770.3700 Residents in Ashland, Holliston, and Southborough will now be in the 5th Congressional District. Inquiries should be directed to Congressman Ed Markey. Markey.house.gov Framingham, MA Office 188 Concord Street, Suite 102 Framingham, MA 01702 Phone: 508-875-2900 -I have thoroughly enjoyed representing the 3rd Congressional District, and am sad to be saying goodbye to many longtime friends and constituents,- said Congressman McGovern. -I know that Representatives Keating, Kennedy, Markey, and Tsongas will do a superb job, and I look forward to working with them closely on the local issues that have mattered so much to me for the past 16 years.-
12.14.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern Statement on the School Shooting in Connecticut -This unspeakable tragedy reminds us - once again - that we need to have a frank conversation about guns and gun violence in America. We have been through this too many times. I have cosponsored numerous bills to combat gun violence and I am a strong supporter of sensible gun control laws. Unfortunately, leadership in Congress continues to block consideration of these common-sense bills.-
12.13.2012	Rep. Doggett, Rep. Courtney, Rep. McGovern 81 House Democrats Urge President Obama, -Do Not Raise the Medicare Eligibility Age- Today, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Rep. Courtney (D-CT), and 81 House Democrats urged President Obama to reject House Republican efforts to raise the Medicare eligibility age during ongoing debt negotiations. -With some of our colleagues still determined to hold ongoing debt negotiations hostage over their ideological priorities, it is critical that we make clear our commitment to maintaining the Medicare eligibility age. Raising the Medicare eligibility age doesn't cut costs—it simply shifts those costs to those who depend on Medicare, to younger Americans who buy insurance through the new health insurance exchanges and to states,-Rep. Doggett wrote. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that the costs to states and the private sector would be twice as large as the savings— $11.4 billion in costs versus $5.7 billion in net federal savings. A phased-in approach as included in the Ryan Republican Budget produces no budget savings over the next decade. The letter concludes,-As we continue to work to develop a response to rising health care costs and make Medicare stronger, we urge you in the strongest possible terms against changing the eligibility age of this vital part of retirement security.- Full text of the letter to President Obama follows below. President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We salute your leadership in seeking tax fairness for all. Furthermore, we understand the importance of balancing fiscal responsibility with the responsibility to meet fundamental public needs. We certainly agree that the Bush tax cuts should be allowed to expire for the top 2 percent of American taxpayers, returning to the Clinton Administration level. This change would occur automatically if Congress failed to act by the end of the year. Some of our colleagues, who have long questioned the value of Medicare, have urged that in return for allowing these tax rates to return to their prior levels, we should terminate Medicare for millions of seniors. As Minority Leader Pelosi put it so eloquently, -It was their trophy in the talks on the fiscal cliff -- the price they asked seniors to pay before they voted to ask the wealthiest to pay their fair share.- This would be unacceptable. Raising the Medicare age doesn't cut costs—it simply shifts those costs to those who depend on Medicare, to younger Americans who buy insurance through the new health insurance exchanges, and to states. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that the costs to states and the private sector would betwice as large as the savings-- $11.4 billion in costs versus $5.7 billion in net federal savings. For our colleagues to consider raising the eligibility age illustrates that their desire has less to do with addressing rising longer health care costs than it does being able to claim an ideological triumph. As the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities recently concluded on raising the Medicare eligibility age: -The goal should be to slow the growth of health care costs system-wide, while extending coverage to all Americans. This proposal does just the opposite on both fronts — raising costs system-wide and increasing the ranks of the uninsured.- Our nation's older Americans have worked a lifetime for the promise of Social Security and Medicare. For those 65-and 66-year-olds who would now be denied the security of Medicare, their out-of-pocket costs would increase by $3.7 billion. Paying more for their health care isn't the only negative impact on our nation's older Americans. Raising the Medicare eligibility age to 67 would also increase the population of uninsured seniors by at least 270,000 people. While the House Republican budget phased in this change for those 54 and below, this only delays the pain. And such a phased approach would produce no budget savings for the next decade. It only indicates that this Republican proposal is about ideology, not deficit reduction. Even though we have made great progress addressing long-term rising health care costs with the passage of the Affordable Health Care Act, and even though the eligibility age for Social Security benefits is gradually increasing, it will do great harm to our economy and millions of seniors to raise the Medicare eligibility age or enact other significant cost-shifting alternatives. We do understand it is important to meet the challenge of rising health care costs, that is why we were willing to vote for changes to Medicare and in doing so, extended the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by almost another decade. As we continue to work to develop a response to rising health care costs and make Medicare stronger, we urge you in the strongest possible terms against changing the eligibility age of this vital part of retirement security. Sincerely, Lloyd Doggett Joe Courtney John Larson Louise Slaughter John Lewis Jan Schakowsky Allyson Schwartz Raul Grijalva Frank Pallone Barney Frank John Tierney Danny Davis Henry Waxman Bobby Scott Kathy Castor Earl Blumenauer Mel Watt Bill Pascrell Elijah Cummings Al Green Janice Hahn Jim McDermott Sheila Jackson Lee Judy Chu Robert Brady Charles Rangel Gene Green Rosa DeLauro Marcia Fudge Corrine Brown Eddie Bernice Johnson Eleanor Holmes Norton John Yarmuth Karen Bass Anna Eshoo Brad Miller Peter DeFazio Mike Honda Ted Deutch Yvette Clarke Sam Farr Adam Schiff Jose Serrano Bennie Thompson Bobby Rush Alcee Hastings Jim Langevin Keith Ellison Rush Holt Paul Tonko Tim Bishop Peter Welch Bill Keating Chellie Pingree Colleen Hanabusa Jim McGovern Jerrold Nadler Steve Cohen Donna Edwards John Sarbanes Linda Sanchez Doris Matsui Carolyn Maloney Emanuel Cleaver Grace Napolitano Suzanne Bonamici Loretta Sanchez John Garamendi David Cicilline Donald Payne Barbara Lee Lois Capps Jackie Speier Maxine Waters Laura Richardson Zoe Lofgren David Curson Lynn Woolsey Russ Carnahan Maurice Hinchey John Olver Betty Sutton Mike Michaud
12.07.2012	Congressman Jim McGovern, the House author of the Magnitsky bill, released a statement today following Senate passage of HR 6156. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern, the House author of the Magnitsky bill, released the following statement today following Senate passage of HR 6156: -Today is a landmark day in the history of U.S. human rights policy. With the Senate's passage of the Magnitsky bill, we have established a critical precedent that human rights is an essential component of trade legislation. It's important to note that this language will apply to all human rights violators in Russia - not just those responsible for Sergei Magnitsky's murder. I want to commend the members of the Senate - particularly my friends Ben Cardin and John Kerry - for their tireless efforts. And I look forward to working with them in the next Congress to extend this language globally.-
11.28.2012	I want to thank the gentleman for yielding, and I want to thank Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi for bringing this bill to the floor. I know those of us in the Massachusetts delegation always welcome the opportunity to pay tribute to Tip O'Neill, a giant of this House and a legend in Massachusetts politics. For nearly 20 years, Tip O'Neill represented the people of his district with distinction, hard work and wit. And for 10 years, he led this House as Speaker. Tip got into politics for the right reason - to help people. As a New Deal Democrat, he believed that while government doesn't have all the answers, it can and should be a force for good. While he may be best remembered for his admonition that -All politics is local- and he always put his constituents first, he also made a great mark in national and international affairs. He fought to protect and preserve Social Security and the safety net. He worked for peace in Northern Ireland and against the war in Vietnam. And he was a source of great advice. When you're running for office, always ask for someone's vote. And always say ‘thank you.' Never judge a beauty pageant or pick a raffle number, because you'll make one person happy and hundreds of people mad. In his second term, Tip was appointed to the House Rules Committee. When he entered the Democratic Leadership, my old boss and mentor Joe Moakley took that seat. And when Joe Moakley died, I was given the honor of taking his place on Rules. So I feel a strong personal responsibility to maintain Tip's legacy. Again, I want to thank the Leadership for bringing this bill to the floor and for the effort to designate the building at 200 C Street here in Washington as the -Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Federal Building.- It's a fitting tribute to a remarkable man. I yield back the balance of my time.
11.19.2012	M. Speaker - On October 2nd, while Congress was campaigning, the Pentagon registered the 2,000th fatality in Afghanistan, the longest war in American history. Today, that number has risen to 2,026. It is imperative that we all remember the terrible human price that has been paid, is being paid, and will continue to be paid by our troops in Afghanistan and their families. This year, there have been 60 so-called -blue on green- killings of U.S. troops by Afghan soldiers they were training. Veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan kill themselves at a rate of one every 80 minutes. More active-duty U.S. military personnel have died by suicide since the war in Afghanistan began than have died fighting there. Nearly 18,000 have been wounded in Afghanistan alone. Let us bring them all home. Let us provide our veterans and active military the care and benefits they have so bravely earned. Let's end the war in Afghanistan now.
11.15.2012	James P. McGovern (MA) Consideration of the Rule for H.R. 6156, PNTR/Magnitsky Thursday, November 15, 2012 I thank the gentleman from California, the honorable Chairman of the Rules Committee, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. And I thank him for bringing this rule to the floor. He and I co-authored a -Dear Colleague- in support of the underlying legislation, and it was a pleasure to work with him on this important bill. M. Speaker, H.R. 6156 joins together two pieces of legislation that deal with trade and human rights in the Russian Federation. The distinguished Chairman has provided a clear description of the provisions in the bill that grant Permanent Normal Trade Relations - or PNTR - to the nations of Moldova and the Russian Federation. It is fairly straightforward. Simply put, after more than 18 years of negotiations, Russia joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) in August. That membership will require Russia - for the first time - to play by the same rules of trade as the United States and virtually every other nation in the world. But, under WTO rules, the United States cannot take advantage of Russia's WTO membership unless and until Congress grants Russia -permanent normal trade relations,- replacing the 1974 special bilateral agreement with Russia known as the -Jackson-Vanik- amendment. The United States is not required to change any U.S. law as a result of Russia's WTO membership, other than this change to the 1974 trade law. This is in contrast to bilateral free trade agreements, where the United States is required to provide duty-free treatment. If that were all there was to H.R. 6156, it would pass or fail along familiar lines of trade-related legislation. But H.R. 6156 will become known as a landmark piece of trade legislation not because it grants PNTR for Russia and Moldova, but because it includes Title IV, the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012. Let me share with my colleagues just a little bit about the life - and death - of Sergei Magnitsky, in whose honor this section of the bill is named. After exposing the largest tax fraud in Russian history, tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky was wrongly arrested and tortured in a Russian prison. Six months later, he became seriously ill. He was denied medical attention despite 20 formal requests. On the night of November 16, 2009 - three years ago tomorrow - his condition became critical. Instead of being treated in a hospital, he was taken to an isolation cell, chained to a bed, and beaten by eight prison guards for one hour and eighteen minutes, which resulted in his death. Sergei Magnitsky was 37 years old. He left behind a wife and two children. Those responsible for his abuse and murder have yet to be punished. And sadly, he is not alone. His story is emblematic of corruption, human rights abuses and impunity in Russia. Since the death of Sergei Magnitsky, the human rights situation inside the Russian Federation has continued to deteriorate. Russia's parliamentary elections last December were marked by mass protests over alleged electoral fraud. Since Vladimir Putin was re-elected president in May 2012, his government has taken a harsh and confrontational approach to on-going protests, cracking down on the Russian people's growing discontent with corruption and creeping authoritarianism. Russian authorities have used excessive force to break up peaceful demonstrations and detained and raided the homes of opposition leaders. Russian civil society has also been a target of increasing repression. Beginning in June and with astonishing speed, the Russian Duma passed a series of draconian laws that restrict freedom of expression, freedom of association, and freedom of assembly. Many observers fear that these laws will be used as a political weapon to stifle criticism of the government. They make it harder for Russian civil society to operate effectively and create a climate of fear and self-censorship. Civil society's sense of isolation is only compounded by the Russian government's recent decision to expel organizations like USAID from the country. In addition, journalists and human rights activists continue to face grave dangers in pursuing their work. Just last month, Tanya Lokshina (LOK-shin-ah) with the Moscow office of Human Rights Watch received a series of threats to herself and her unborn child, most likely in connection to her efforts to expose impunity for human rights abuses. Her experience is not unique. While Russian authorities have tried to silence critics, NGOs and independent media, the world is still awaiting justice for many violent attacks on dissidents and journalists. I would like to note for my colleagues that today, at 2:00 PM, the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission will be holding a hearing on human rights in the Russian Federation and Ms. Lokshina (LOK-shin-ah) will be one of the witnesses. In this context, the story of Sergei Magnitsky remains especially important. At a time when the human rights situation in the country is going from bad to worse, it is all the more important to hold Russian human rights violators accountable. The Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act, which is Title IV of H.R. 6156, as reported by the Rules Committee, places an asset freeze and visa ban on those individuals responsible for Sergei Magnitsky's torture and death, as well as on Russian officials engaged in corruption or gross violations of human rights. These measures provide a degree of accountability and reinforce the Administration's toolkit to respond to crimes by individual government officials. Passage of the Magnitsky Act sends a clear message to the Russian people that we support their fundamental human rights. Importantly, it also sends a strong message to those Russian officials who support the rule of law and who reject corruption and human rights abuses. It lets them know that their efforts and their achievements are valued by the United States and the international community. Only individuals within the Russian government who abuse their office and engage in corruption and human rights crimes will find their assets and visas under scrutiny and subject to U.S. sanction. Let me be clear: I would not be supporting PNTR for the Russian Federation if it did not include Title IV, the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act. I urge all my colleagues to support the Magnitsky Act by voting for the underlying legislation, H.R. 6156.
11.14.2012	Statement of U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern on the passing of former U.S. Rep. Joseph Early -Joe Early was an incredible public servant who fought tirelessly for working people. From championing economic development to his tireless advocacy for medical research, Joe Early was a man who truly made a difference. Our community, our commonwealth and our country are better because of him. Lisa and I extend our deepest sympathy to Marilyn and to the entire Early family.-
11.14.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's letter to President Obama on making hunger a priority issue in 2013. share: f t November 9, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President, United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama, Congratulations on your re-election. I look forward to working with you and providing strong support for your efforts to meet our country's challenges in the term ahead. As you prepare to enter your second term as President of the United States, I urge you to renew your commitment to end hunger in our country and make ending hunger a national priority. As you know, more than 50 million people in the United States live in families that struggle to put food on the table, including nearly 17 million children. Food insecure families often make difficult choices between important necessities, like choosing between paying for food, medical care, transportation, or utilities. Hunger impacts a family's ability to maintain good health, access to employment, and it impacts a child's ability to concentrate and perform well in school. With so many families struggling to put food on the table, it is more critical than ever that we protect and strengthen anti-hunger programs. I urge you, as you tackle deficit reduction in the coming year, to draw a line in the sand against any cuts to low-income programs in budget negotiations including SNAP, WIC, and other vital anti-hunger programs. Despite ever-increasing need, threats to these programs are greater than we have seen in decades. With your leadership in the next several months, I am confident that we can uphold the long standing bi-partisan principle of exempting anti-poverty programs from deficit reduction and achieve a balanced solution that does not create more hardship for low-income families. Every major deficit reduction package for the last several decades has exempted low-income programs from cuts. This strong tradition should not change now. Holding anti-hunger programs harmless, however, is only a temporary solution to a much more complex problem. Hunger can and must be eliminated but it will take bold Presidential leadership. I ask that you make ending hunger a focus of your second term. Your inaugural address and the State of the Union are prime opportunities to boldly restate your commitment to ending hunger. Much like your administration was able to achieve significant strides in promoting child nutrition in your first term by leveraging cabinet level engagement, making hunger a priority in your second term would put our country on track to end hunger. With your leadership, our nation can harness the talents and skills of a broad range of Americans to develop a holistic plan to achieve an end to hunger. A White House Conference on Food and Nutrition that convenes public and private sector leaders at the local, state, and national level, harnessing the energy, innovation, and resources necessary to end hunger would elevate the issue for all Americans. . The Great Recession and slow economic recovery have posed incredible challenges and hindered progress against hunger. However, our country's economic troubles have also focused a spotlight on the problem of hunger and raised awareness in communities across the nation about neighbors who are struggling to provide for their family's most basic need. Now is the opportune moment to lead our country in a shared commitment to ending hunger by publicly committing to this goal, by boldly protecting our safety net, and by bringing key stakeholders together to develop a plan that moves our nation forward. I am thrilled that you will have another four years to demonstrate your leadership in fighting hunger and improving nutrition in our nation. I pledge to work with you on these issues in your next term. I know that with your leadership, we can achieve our shared vision of a hunger-free America. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
10.26.2012	Remarks offered at the funeral of former Senator George McGovern on October 26, 2012 share: f t When Eleanor Roosevelt died, Adlai Stevenson said, -I lost more than a friend - I lost an inspiration.- That's the way I feel today. Deep down I know George McGovern is in a better place. He's with Eleanor; he's with Terry and Steve. Who knows - he may even be President. But for so many of us it is difficult to say good-bye. It was always comforting to know he was around—reminding us we can do better. Making it seem possible that we could end all wars, eliminate hunger and poverty, and create a world where all God's children are respected, valued and loved. In 1972, as a 7th grader in Massachusetts, I did what I could to elect him President of the United States. I will remind you all - he did win Massachusetts! I later was an intern in his Senate office. I had the privilege to work with the incredible staff he assembled in Washington and South Dakota - some of the finest people I have ever known. We weren't related - it was just a coincidence that we both had the same last name. But people would often tell me that they were long-time supporters of my Dad. They always seemed a little shocked when I told them my dad owns a liquor store in Worcester, Massachusetts. I urged them to keep supporting him! For 35 years I have been honored to call Senator McGovern my most treasured friend. And I loved him very much. George McGovern was a great man, but more importantly he was a very, very good one. He had about him a kind of bedrock decency. He was generous and kind. He was funny. He lacked pretension and had no patience for cynicism. He was passionate and principled, but not dogmatic or self righteous. He loved his family and his friends; he loved his faith; he loved American history, big Newfoundland dogs, and a good steak; he loved this great state of South Dakota - and My God, did he love his country. Even after the 1972 campaign, even after losing 49 states, even after losing his Senate seat in 1980, he maintained his optimism, his faith in democratic government, his belief that America's best days were always ahead. Through intellect and drive and education he became a war hero, a PhD, a congressman, a senator, an ambassador, and the presidential nominee of his party. But he wasn't a -don't you know who I am- kind of guy. We can all hear him now, in that slow, precise cadence, saying to someone who knew perfectly well who he was, -You know Fred, I ran for President against Richard Nixon in 1972.- Which is not to say he was without pride. This is a man who jumped out of an airplane at the age of 88, for Pete's sake. And while he did so to raise awareness on the issue of childhood hunger, I think he also wanted to prove that the old pilot of the Dakota Queen still had a little of that fearless fly-boy in him. He had a way with words - -Come home, America- and -Don't throw away your conscience.- He was eloquent and moving. But his actions were even more powerful. There are millions and millions all around the world who are being fed, who are not starving to death, and who have hope because of George McGovern's actions. Perhaps because he witnessed firsthand the horrors of war, because he knew its costs, he was a tireless champion for peace. Not because he blindly opposed all wars, but because he knew that war always represents a failure of human imagination. Even when some had the audacity to question this war hero's patriotism, he refused to accept old men dreaming up new wars for young men to die in. To Ann, Susan, and Mary—and to all the grandchildren - thank you for sharing him with us, even though I know it wasn't always easy. To the people of South Dakota, thank you for giving our nation and the world this incredible public servant. As his colleague, Senator William Fulbright said late in the 1972 campaign, he wanted a McGovern presidency QUOTE -because George is such an ordinary man…I don't mean ordinary in any negative sense, but the presidency was designed for ordinary men - not for a succession of so many larger-than-life men on horseback. If George McGovern were president he wouldn't stand for a CIA or FBI pushing people around the way they do now, or the Pentagon building and buying what it pleased. He wouldn't stand for price fixing or these outrages against people who work for wages and pay their taxes. And you can be damned sure he wouldn't try to prove his manhood by prolonging a war that shouldn't have been started in the first place. It's a damned shame all this has happened to George, because I don't know how long it will be until we have a President who feels like that.- He was right. Our great country missed an incredible opportunity in 1972. But even though George McGovern lost that election, that loss is not his legacy. Right now there's a family in Camden, New Jersey that can put food on their table. That's his legacy. There's a little girl in Malawi who's never heard the name -George McGovern- who has enough to eat and is getting an education. That's his legacy. There's a young man in California or Colombia or Kenya committed to peace and justice because of his inspiration. That's his legacy. And it is up to us - to each and every one of us - to carry that legacy forward.
10.12.2012	In support of National Coming Out Day, and to celebrate this increasingly recognized worldwide holiday in recognition of the LGBT community, Congressman Jim McGovern joined 26 Members of Commerce in the second NOH8 on the Hill Photo Session, in coordinati share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern Joins -NOH8 on The Hill- in Support of National Coming Out Day In support of National Coming Out Day, and to celebrate this increasingly recognized worldwide holiday in recognition of the LGBT community, Congressman Jim McGovern joined 26 Members of Commerce in the second NOH8 on the Hill Photo Session, in coordination with the NOH8 campaign. National Coming Out Day is held on October 11th each year, celebrating the coming out of gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender individuals and raising awareness for the ongoing fight for equal rights. NCOD marks the anniversary of the historic 1987 National March on Washington for Gay and Lesbian Rights, which demanded the government's attention to equal rights Held this past September and organized by CA Representative Adam B. Schiff's office, this special bipartisan photo shoot was open to all Congressmen and Senators. Elected officials have now represented 15 states including Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Kentucky, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Texas, Vermont, and Wisconsin, as well as the District of Columbia itself. Congressman McGovern's photo and quote for the campaign are attached below. For more information on the NOH8 campaign, visit www.noh8campaign.com -I'm Congressman Jim McGovern and I'm happy to be a part of this campaign. I believe we need to work together to create a more tolerant, equal society.-
09.19.2012	Video of Congressman McGovern's floor speech from 9/19/2012 share: f t M. Speaker, for several years now I have come to the floor of this House and called for an end to the war in Afghanistan - the longest war in the history of the United States. I have been joined by others - some Democrats and some Republicans, some liberals and some conservatives - who have consistently raised their voices in opposition to the war. Today - once again - I stand here in the aftermath of more senseless killings of Americans. Not only by Taliban forces, but by forces associated with the Afghan government - a government we support and are told to trust. It is hard to believe that in the midst of a Presidential campaign, so little is said about the war. During the Republican National Convention, nominee Mitt Romney never once mentioned the war or the troops in his acceptance speech. Not even a sentence. Not a phrase. Nothing. As one who has been to Afghanistan twice; met with our troops; talked to returning veterans and been to visit them in the hospital, I find that silence shocking and offensive. I also find offensive the fact that this House of Representatives has refused to even debate this issue. When the Department of Defense Authorization bill came to the floor earlier this year, the Republican Leadership of this House refused to allow a bipartisan amendment that I and Walter Jones of North Carolina offered. That amendment called for an accelerated withdrawal for American forces from Afghanistan. The Chairman of the Rules Committee said there were a lot of other important issues to be debated on the defense bill. My question is -What in the world is more important than this war?- The Afghan government is one of the most corrupt in the world. Our troops have already accomplished their mission, not only ridding Afghanistan of Al Qaeda but killing Osama bin Laden. So why are we still there? There is a culture in Washington that engulfs both Republicans and Democrats. It is a culture that makes it easy to go to war but impossible to get out. There is no question that ending the war in Afghanistan will be messy. There is no nice, neat way to do it. There will be no signing of a peace treaty; no grand parade. The President tells us that we will turn over control of security operations to the Afghans by 2014. But it is unclear how many U.S. forces will remain or what their role will be. And Mitt Romney says nothing. M. Speaker, there ought to be a major portion of this presidential campaign dedicated to the issue of Afghanistan. Vague deadlines and generalities no longer suffice. Too many brave American servicemen and women have paid with their lives. And while candidates talk about the debt our government carries, no one points out that we borrow the billions to pay for this war. We don't even pay for it. It goes on the credit card. And we've been doing this for over a decade. In this Congress we can't spend one additional penny to feed hungry children or create a single job or build a single bridge without finding an offset. Yet when it comes to war there are no offsets, no new revenue - just another blank check. Something is terribly wrong with this picture. Finally, I would remind my colleagues here in this House that we are all responsible for this war. And we are complicit in the silence, lack of debate and lack of oversight. That is wrong. We owe our servicemen and women so much better. We owe this country better. End the war and bring our troops home. Now.
09.12.2012	McGovern Statement on the Attack in Benghazi -Today, the American people stand united in our grief over the senseless murder of four of our bravest public servants. They represented the finest our county has to offer in their dedication to liberty, justice, and democracy for all. These American diplomats gave their lives while working for a more stable and secure region; we must also remain united in their memory by maintaining a steadfast resolve for peace and democracy around the world.-
09.12.2012	The U.S. DOT has awarded $4.4M to the Worcester Regional Transit Authority for WRTA's "Green Fleet" bus procurement project. share: f t For Immediate Release: Contact: Michael Mershon September 11, 2012 (202) 225-6101 U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN, U.S. SENS. JOHN KERRY AND SCOTT BROWN ANNOUNCE $4.4 MILLION FOR WRTA -GREEN FLEET- BUS PROJECT U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (MA-03), U.S. Senator John Kerry and U.S. Senator Scott Brown today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded $4,464,000 to the Worcester Regional Transit Authority (WRTA) for WRTA's -Green Fleet- bus procurement project. Rep. McGovern was a strong supporter of the grant application. WRTA's current fleet includes clean diesel and hybrid diesel buses, and they will use the funding announced today to replace three diesel transit buses with the zero-emission all-electric transit buses. In addition to eliminating 53 tons of harmful emissions per year, these new buses will result in significant reductions in petroleum fuel consumption (more than 23,000 gallons annually) and operating costs (nearly $500,000 per bus over 12 years). -I am very pleased that the Department of Transportation is awarding this significant federal funding to WRTA,- Rep. McGovern said. -With these new buses, WRTA will serve as a national model for clean transit. I commend WRTA for their strong commitment to clean transit technology and the Federal Transit Administration for funding this project. I look forward to seeing these buses on the streets of our community.- -Lots of folks in Worcester rely heavily on public transportation to do everything from get to work to go to the doctor and their commutes should be safe and economical,- Sen. Kerry said. -With budgets squeezed to the limit, this investment will help Massachusetts stay one step ahead of the rest of the country when it comes to clean energy.- -Funding for new and reliable buses for the ‘Green Fleet' is great news for those who utilize public transportation in Worcester,- Sen. Brown said. -The long term fuel savings will bring some relief to the local budget and help keep our air clean.- -The WRTA is absolutely thrilled to introduce this clean fuel technology to its fleet and for its passengers,- said WRTA Administrator Stephen O'Neil. -The fuel savings, reduction in CO2 emissions, and the reduction in operating costs over the useful life of these buses is extraordinary. The addition of this grant is yet another example of the WRTA moving forward in a positive direction.- The project will also include the installation of one Fast-Charge station at WRTA's Union Station Transfer Center and one -shop charger- at the new Maintenance and Operations facility. WRTA is the second largest regional transit authority in Massachusetts. In 2011, WRTA provided 3,450,993 passenger trips.
08.13.2012	August 9, 2012 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State U.S. Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretary Clinton, We write to urge that you undertake stronger, more coordinated, visible international diplomatic steps with regards to the People's Republic of China's policies and practices towards Tibetans. We appreciate your efforts with regards to courageous individuals such as Chen Guangcheng. Yet we believe that the United States can and must significantly increase diplomatic and international pressure on the Chinese government to reverse the crisis in Tibet. As you know, in the past year alone, more than three dozen Tibetans have self-immolated, presumably in despair over the restrictions imposed on their daily lives by the Chinese government. Reliable sources have documented profoundly politicized trials and harsh sentences, new and even more pervasive restrictions on religious freedom and the management of monastic communities, and sharp increases in troop presences and security spending on the plateau. For the first time since the Cultural Revolution, Chinese authorities in the Tibetan Autonomous Region detained large numbers of laypeople and forced them to undergo re-education in January and February 2012. In June 2012, Lhasa authorities took the unprecedented step of expelling from the city even those Tibetans from the eastern part of the region who had official permission to live there. The situation is unambiguously deteriorating, and none of these actions comport with the Chinese government's rhetoric of respect for the rights of ethnic minorities, religious freedom, or a quest for -a harmonious society- in the region. We are very aware that U.S. officials regularly discuss Tibet and many other human rights issues with like-minded governments. However, more visible, public and coordinated diplomacy is necessary for the Chinese government to feel pressure to alter its conduct. The U.S. could play a leadership role in hosting an international conference on the subject of Tibet, or consider periodic, public meetings with a handful of other governments, as an effective means of expressing concern. We know from the past that the Chinese government will object to such a forum or contact group as an unacceptable breach of sovereignty, but such steps are necessary at a time when diplomats, journalists, and other observers are being blocked from the region. It also remains equally important for the United States to be seen by Tibetans inside and outside of China as gravely concerned about their circumstances, and these kinds of highly-visible public meetings will certainly be covered by the relevant media. We believe some European governments, including Germany and the Czech Republic, as well as Canada, are aware of such ideas, and that the United States should capitalize now on their interest. The upcoming United Nations General Assembly meeting in September perhaps offers an opportunity to take steps towards forming such a contact group. As the United States continues its -pivot- towards Asia, it is important that the U.S. demonstrate that it is not deaf to the desperate appeals for help and support emanating from Tibetans. We strongly urge you to work with partner nations and establish a contact group on Tibet to carry out strong, visible public diplomacy on this human rights crisis. Thank you for your serious consideration of this request. We look forward to hearing back from you soon. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Frank R. Wolf Member of Congress Member of Congress
08.02.2012	Group introduces workable campaign finance reform bill to fight the abuses of excessive election expenditures. share: f t Today, U.S. Representative John D. Dingell (D-MI15), joined by co-sponsors, John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI14), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY14), Robert Andrews (D-NJ01), Diana DeGette (D-CO01), Jim McGovern (D-MA03), Robert Brady (D-PA01), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD08), Keith Ellison (D-MN05), and Donna F. Edwards (D-MD04) introduced strong legislation to make workable reforms to election financing. The -Restoring Confidence in Our Democracy Act- prohibits corporations and unions from making independent expenditures and electioneering communications, and subjects Super Political Action Committees (PAC) to the same restrictions as regular PACs, such as a $5,000 contribution limit. -Citizens United is one of the most destructive Supreme Court decisions in our nation's history,- said Dingell. Even worse, the decision completely ignored the factual record and congressional intent when it overturned key provisions of McCain-Feingold. Since that time, we have seen an explosion in spending and the emergence of Super PACs, which allow billionaires to funnel unlimited amounts of money to influence our elections. This is fundamentally threatening our free elections and democratic system of government. My legislation establishes the factual record which details the negative effects of increased spending in our elections. Hopefully the court will heed the facts this time around.- -Citizens United is, apart from Bush v. gore, the most misguided Supreme Court decision of the modern era,- Conyers said. -The free flow of secret money into campaigns directly undermines the public trust. I am proud to support the Dingell bill, which goes a long way towards restoring the integrity of our election system.- -The impact of the Citizens United decision has been clear: open floodgates of virtually unlimited cash-- from contributors who never have to be disclosed-- have financed massive ad buys to influence our elections,- Maloney said. -Independent expenditures from corporate general-treasury funds should be illegal, and Superpacs should be subject to the same requirements as regular PACs. Our democracy should not be for sale to the highest bidder.- -The Citizen's United ruling is a corrosive cancer on our political system that undermines the democratic process by giving the most wealthy a disproportionate influence through unlimited spending, saidAndrews. -It is imperative that the Congress come together and pass reforms to ensure fairness is restored to our democratic system and I am proud to stand with Representative Dingell and my colleagues today to do just that.- "In my home state of Colorado, as the election gets closer, the devastating impact of the Citizens United decision is evident every time you turn on the TV," said Rep. Diana DeGette. "Millions and millions of dollars of unlimited cash has enabled the wealthiest and most powerful to flood our airwaves, unchecked, with any message it is in their interest to promote. I am proud to stand with my colleague John Dingell in support of this bill which will begin to level the playing field and start ensuring everyone must play by the same rules." -We are already seeing the corrosive effects of Citizens United: an election system awash in a sea of millions of dollars in unregulated money, drowning out the voices of individual citizens, said McGovern. -Politicians are increasingly beholden to wealthy special interests. A multi-national oil company that doesn't like a particular member of Congress can now simply write a big, undisclosed check to ‘Americans for Apple Pie and Puppies' and watch the negative advertisements work their magic. I am proud to join with John Dingell to address this critical issue.- -The Supreme Court falsely claimed Citizens United would protect free speech,- said Brady. -Instead, it gave billionaires and corporations a megaphone to drown out the voices of the average American and a veil of secrecy to hide behind. The longer we wait, the worse this problem will get.- -Since 2010, Super PACs and corporations have spent record amounts of money in elections nationwide,- said Ellison. -Corporate spending soared during the 2010 election cycle to over $290 million, four times more than the previous mid-term elections in 2006. This is wouldn't have been possible without the Citizens United decision and it must end. A democracy should never be for sale.- The "Restoring Confidence in Our Democracy Act- has been endorsed by Common Cause and UAW. Common Cause issued the following statement: -Common Cause applauds your introduction of the Restoring Confidence in Our Democracy Act. The Supreme Court's 5-4 ruling in Citizens United v. FEC overturned a century of well-settled law and unleashed the floodgates to a torrent of secret, special interest money in our elections. Without citing any evidence or Congress's findings to the contrary, the Court ruled that ‘independent expenditures, including those made by corporations, do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption.' The American people know that the Court's factual error defies common sense.- The Public Campaign also offered the following statement: -Public Campaign commends Rep. Dingell for advancing the debate in Congress of how corporate and special interests are trying to buy elections. While additional disclosure of campaign spending is needed, Public Campaign also advocates for a small-donor driven matching fund system to empower citizens so that everyday people can have their voices heard in campaigns.- The Citizens United v. FEC ruling allows for unlimited corporate spending in our elections and discards decades of case law in the process. The ruling ignored the factual record regarding campaign finance reform and disregarded congressional intent. The -Restoring Confidence in Our Democracy Act- seeks to establish the factual record which the court cannot ignore through a series of findings. It also re-enacts the prohibition on corporations making electioneering communications to influence campaigns, clarifies that corporations and unions cannot make independent expenditures, and subjects Super PACs to the same restrictions as other PACs, including a $5,000 contribution limit.
08.02.2012	This Congress has not only failed to address the issue of gun violence in the United States, it has actually weakened gun safety laws. share: f t Remarks on the Floor - August 2, 2012 This Congress has not only failed to address the issue of gun violence in the United States, it has actually weakened gun safety laws. I am proud that my home state of Massachusetts is a leader in gun violence prevention, and has the lowest firearm fatality rate per 100,000 population of any urban industrialized state. I am proud of the work being done by anti-gun violence advocates across the Commonwealth, including Boston's Mayor Tom Menino and John Rosenthal, founder of the organization -Stop Handgun Violence.- Today, Stop Handgun Violence is hosting a rally in Boston calling on Congress to pass stronger gun safety legislation. I applaud their work and the efforts of other organizations like the Brady Campaign as they continue to educate and advocate for sensible legislation. What more will it take for this Congress to bring common-sense gun control measures to the floor? How many more tragedies? Silence is no longer acceptable.
07.31.2012	U.S. Reps. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Ed Royce (R-CA) today announced that they had coordinated a strongly bipartisan letter, signed by 78 Members of Congress, calling on President Obama to exercise leadership and to coordinate, along with the U.N. and the A share: f t For Immediate Release: July 31, 2012 U.S. Reps. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Ed Royce (R-CA) today announced that they had coordinated a strongly bipartisan letter, signed by 78 Members of Congress, calling on President Obama to exercise leadership and to coordinate, along with the U.N. and the African Union (AU), a side meeting during September's convening of the U.N. General Assembly to press nations to make concrete commitments to strengthen regional coordination in addressing the LRA threat, apprehending its commander Joseph Kony and his top military commanders, and civilian protection. On June 29th, the United Nations endorsed an African Union force to capture warlord Joseph Kony and neutralize his Lord's Resistance Army. The 15-member Security Council approved the "United Nations Regional Strategy to Address the Threat and Impact of the Activities of the LRA." The plan provisions a new force of 5,000 AU soldiers and bolsters humanitarian efforts in the region of LRA activity, which currently includes the Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan, the Central African Republic and Sudan. But the commander of the proposed AU force stated on July 25th that the force lacked equipment, logistics and manpower. The McGovern-Royce letter recognizes the need for strong regional coordination and calls on President Obama to assert U.S. leadership to bring key actors together to ensure this happens in a robust manner. -The world community must continue to focus on capturing Joseph Kony and putting an end to the violence,- Rep. McGovern said. -We are urging the Obama Administration to make this a high priority in the weeks and months ahead.- -It would be a tragedy if poor cross-border cooperation allowed Joseph Kony and his commanders to slip through the cracks,- Rep. Royce said. -This bipartisan initiative calls for Presidential leadership - to ensure that all the countries the LRA has plagued are working together to stop the killing.- A copy of the letter is attached.
07.26.2012	"We are encouraged by the commitment by President Funes and representatives of El Salvador's political parties to resolve this crisis expeditiously. " share: f t -We are encouraged by the commitment by President Funes and representatives of El Salvador's political parties to resolve this crisis expeditiously. We agree with the Department of State that this is a matter to be resolved by Salvadorans through dialogue, and we reaffirm our support for U.S. assistance for El Salvador which addresses a range of mutual interests, from improving law enforcement to combating poverty. -Over the past 30 years, El Salvador has faced many challenges, from civil war, to corruption, to cyclones. This constitutional/political crisis is the latest test of whether the country's governmental institutions can emerge stronger, the rule of law strengthened, and its people more united.-
07.26.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern and U.S. Sens. John Kerry and Scott Brown today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded $151, 460 to the City of Worcester. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN, SENS JOHN KERRY AND SCOTT BROWN ANNOUNCE $151,000 FOR WORCESTER LAW ENFORCEMENT U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern and U.S. Sens. John Kerry and Scott Brown today announced that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded $151, 460 to the City of Worcester. The funding announced today is through the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program. JAG program funds can be used for a variety of efforts such as hiring law enforcement officers; supporting drug and gang task forces; funding crime prevention and domestic violence programs; and supporting courts, corrections, treatment, and justice information sharing initiatives. The procedure for allocating JAG grants is based on a formula of population and violent crime statistics. Worcester will primarily use the funding to maintain police presence in key neighborhoods. -Cities and towns are facing extremely difficult economic times, and local budgets are being squeezed,- Rep. McGovern said. -The federal assistance we are announcing today will help Worcester maintain critical public safety and law enforcement programs. "Not a lot of people can say that they could get killed every day they go to work, but that's the risk that cops sign up for and no one should forget it. Their job is tough enough under the best circumstances so we can't keep asking our police departments to do more with less," said Sen. Kerry. "This is an investment in our officers and our communities." "The job of law enforcement isn't easy even under the best of circumstances," said Sen. Brown. "It is my hope that this grant will provide meaningful support to the department's brave and committed officers as they work each and every day to keep the people of Worcester safe." -These funds are critical for maintaining a police presence in our neighborhoods, especially in areas that have been impacted by funding cuts and to strategically target areas where crime trends and analysis dictate,- said City Manager Michael V. O'Brien. -We are extremely grateful to the continued support of our Congressional delegation and for their work in securing these much-needed public safety dollars.-
07.25.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern has announced his first ever Facebook cover photo contest in a post to followers on the social media site. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern has announced his first ever Facebook cover photo contest in a post to followers on the social media site. -I'm a firm believer that social media is a vital tool to connect one-on-one with constituents,- said Rep. McGovern. -I'm excited to try something new and interactive to help show off some of what makes this part of Massachusetts so wonderful.- Followers of his Facebook page (Facebook.com/RepJimMcGovern) can submit self-owned high-resolution photos from around the 3rd Congressional District until Monday, July 30th. Submitted photos should be sent to McGovernFacebook@gmail.com Select submitted photos will be put up for a public vote, with a winner announced on Monday, August 6th.
07.19.2012	Kerry, Brown, McGovern, Neal, Olver: Massachusetts Wins $1.1 Mil To Put Vets Back To Work Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern, Richard Neal, and John Olver, today announced that three organizations across Massachusetts will receive $1,113,840 million from the U.S. Department of Labor to provide homeless veterans in Massachusetts the job training to help them succeed in civilian careers. The funding, awarded through the Homeless Veterans Reintegration, Homeless Female Veterans, and Veterans with Families Programs, will go toward assisting homeless veterans with reintegration into the workforce and addressing difficult to serve subpopulations of homeless veterans. Under these grants, homeless veterans may receive occupational, classroom and on-the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance, including follow-up services. -The high unemployment rate among veterans is unacceptable. Slogans are no substitute for a good job for every one of our heroes who returns home,- said Sen. Kerry. -It's about turning words into actions, and that's exactly what this investment and this partnership with the Department of Labor and veterans groups in Massachusetts will do. It's a real-life way to provide the support, tools, and job training veterans need to find a good job and make a successful transition back to civilian life.- -When our heroes come home, we have an obligation to ensure they have the tools they need to reintegrate and, if necessary, help them get back on their feet,- said Sen. Brown. -These grants will help thousands of veterans in Massachusetts get the job training assistance they deserve.- -I am so impressed with the work that Veterans, Inc does to help our returning servicemen and women,- Rep. McGovern said. -They continue to touch more and more lives, and this federal funding will help them continue their efforts.- "Once again Soldier On is being acknowledged for the first-class services it renders for our veterans,- said Rep. Neal. -Solider On has a proven track record of success working with community partners to effectively assist homeless veterans,- said Rep. Olver. -This funding allows Soldier On to continue to provide veterans in Hampshire and Berkshire counties with quality job training and job-placement assistance that will help them succeed in civilian careers.- -Education, skill development and job readiness skills are major impediments for homeless veterans to re-enter the employment market,- said Jack Downing, President and CEO of Soldier On. -These grants help us eliminate those barriers and prepare our veterans for long term employment that is productive and financially rewarding.- The following organizations will receive funding: Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program Second and Third Year Funding Vietnam Veterans Workshop dba New England Center for Homeless Veterans $219,620.00 Veterans Inc. $400,000.00 United Veterans of America, Inc. dba Soldier On $200,000.00 Incarcerated Veterans' Transition Program Third Year Funding United Veterans of America, Inc. dba Soldier On $200,000.00 Homeless Females and Veterans with Families Third Year Funding Veterans, Inc. $94,220.00
07.19.2012	15 Members of Congress, speaking for five minutes each, focus the debate on the Defense Appropriations Act on the costs of the war in Afghanistan and the need to bring the troops home now. share: f t <iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/-2QXOMBfosY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
07.18.2012	I'm not convinced that there is any light at the end of the tunnel. I am not convinced that this war is coming to an end. share: f t James P. McGovern (MA) H.R. 5856, the FY 2013 Defense Appropriations Act -Strike the Last Word- - 5-Minutes on Afghanistan Wednesday, July 18, 2012 Mr. Chairman, I move to strike the last word - Mr. Chairman, this year marks the 12th consecutive appropriations season that the United States has been fighting and funding the war in Afghanistan. Sometimes it is easy to forget that we are still deep in war in Afghanistan. The threat of nuclear weapons in Iran, drone strikes in Pakistan, the nightmare of mass murder in Syria garner the attention of the news media. But we currently have more than 90,000 troops on the ground in Afghanistan and about 110,000 contractors. Some of these troops are slated to come home over this summer, but many more - approximately 88,000 - will remain. And the exact number of troops that will remain in Afghanistan as the U.S. and allies transition to local security forces through 2013 and 2014 is still unclear. Neither the Pentagon nor the Administration has publicly laid out post-2014 plans, but they are clearly leaving open the possibility of a significant military presence. This is the reality we face as we open debate on this bill. Mr. Chairman, I'm not convinced that there is any light at the end of the tunnel. I am not convinced that this war is coming to an end. And I do not believe we should continue sacrificing the dedication and blood of our servicemen and women for a deeply flawed and corrupt government that is simply not -fixable.- Oh, we can change the names, the programs, the projects - but it's simply more of the same problems - over and over again. It's regrettable that this war is not more of a priority in public debate. And it is unconscionable that debating this war is not a top priority for this Congress. The Majority wouldn't even let us have a full debate and vote on an amendment during the defense authorizations bill to make sure the commitments made by the Administration to draw down our troops over the next two years are kept. Congress is deeply complicit in maintaining and continuing the war. We've allocated $634 billion for military operations in Afghanistan since 2001, including the $85.6 billion in this bill. We're not just spending those billions, Mr. Chairman - we're borrowing them. Every single penny for the war in Afghanistan has been borrowed, put on the national credit card, exploded our deficit and our debt. Every. Single. Penny. Each week of war in 2012 costs about $2 billion. If the Pentagon's -enduring presence- means thousands of troops remaining in Afghanistan after 2014 for who knows how long, then we are looking at a trillion dollar war. Meanwhile, we're cutting funds for our schools, preparing to slash billions of dollars from the safety net that's supposed to keep our own people out of poverty; watching our roads, bridges, water systems and infrastructure decay; and we're told there's no money to invest in health care and scientific research. And for what, Mr. Chairman, for what? Show me where our military might has put a permanent end to instability, violence or corruption? Even though the media isn't focused on it, the violence in Afghanistan goes on. The U.S. death toll for Operation Enduring Freedom is over two thousand - 1,919 of those deaths happened in Afghanistan. Members of the Afghan military and security forces continue to turn their guns on our troops and murder them. According to the Pentagon, 154 Active Duty soldiers committed suicide in the first 159 days of this year - that's almost one per day. And as for our veterans, the VA estimates that a veteran dies by suicide every 80 minutes. How long will we ask our troops and their families to pay this price? Because they're the only ones paying for this war, Mr. Chairman, the only ones. I don't believe we should abandon the people of Afghanistan. But I do believe we must end this war, sooner rather than later. And I'm not convinced we're anywhere close to an end. And it's the fault of Congress. We approve the money - and we remain silent - year after year. We need to stop. We aren't supporting our troops. We're committing them to suffer life-long trauma from too many deployments, for too long a time, over too many years. For a war without end. For a war that always needs just a little more time - and just a few billion dollars more. Enough is enough. I urge my colleagues to support amendments over the next 3 days to reduce the funding for this war, bring it to an end, and honor the sacrifice of our troops by bringing them and our tax dollars back home.
06.29.2012	We must continue our efforts to ensure that the health care system works for all American families. share: f t -I am pleased that the Supreme Court today upheld the will of the American people and of the elected branches of government. The Affordable Care Act is already beginning to work on behalf of the American people. Children can no longer be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions. Young adults can stay on their parent's plan. Seniors are paying less for their medicine. We must continue our efforts to ensure that the health care system works for all American families.-
06.20.2012	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Barney Frank, Jim McGovern, and William Keating, today announced that the Fall River Fire Department has won $14,453,524 in federal funding, protecting 79 firefighter jobs that would have been lo share: f t Kerry, Brown, Frank, McGovern, Keating: Fall River Fire Department Wins $14.5 Mil, Saves 79 Firefighter Jobs Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Barney Frank, Jim McGovern, and William Keating, today announced that the Fall River Fire Department has won $14,453,524 in federal funding, protecting 79 firefighter jobs that would have been lost due to local budget cuts. The Fall River Fire Department had planned to lay off 79 firefighters due to cuts of nearly $5 million, or 44 percent, of the Department's total operating budget over the past three fiscal years. Senator Kerry assisted the City of Fall River with their funding application to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and sent a follow-up letter of support to the Administrator of FEMA urging the agency to grant Fall River's request. Senator Kerry also called the Assistant Administrator directly to make the case for this application and met with Mayor Flanagan in Washington, DC in March to provide an update on the process. Without today's funding, drastic reductions in staffing would have forced Fall River to close four of the eight engine companies, one of three ladder companies, the heavy rescue, one of two command vehicles, and two full fire stations. With only six remaining firefighting companies to protect the city, two sections of the city would have been without adequate, readily available fire protection. The new federal funding, awarded by FEMA's Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grants Program, will keep firefighters on the job and strengthen training for front line firefighters in Fall River. -When Mayor Flanagan came to me with this proposal he said it would mean the difference between 79 firefighters protecting the city or closing two fire stations and asking the community to fend for themselves,- said Sen. Kerry. -That's why we went at this full force - making the case any way we knew how - in the application process and with months of phone calls, letters, and one-on-one conversations with FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security. This is how government should work, and I'm thrilled to congratulate Mayor Flanagan and Chief Silva on this all-hands-on-deck effort and a job well done.- -I am so proud that Fall River has won one of the largest SAFER grants in recent history,- said Sen. Brown. -Under the Fall River Fire Department's responsibility is an unusually broad range of fire protection environments - from densely developed city to 12,000 acres of remote forest - that makes it absolutely critical that the Department has adequate staffing. Fall River is highly deserving of this award and I am very pleased that FEMA has agreed with the compelling case Fall River has made.- -This is great news for the city of Fall River and for public safety, and it represents a favorable verdict on the city's administration of these funds to date,- said Rep. Frank. -I'm very proud of the way my congressional colleagues and I worked to help make the city's case. This is one more example of why it's important that we provide adequate funding to help state and local governments to meet their needs at a difficult time.- -I was proud to support the city's SAFER grant application, and I'm thrilled with this award," said Rep. McGovern. -These are difficult economic times, and this federal funding will ensure that Fall River won't need to make devastating cuts to their fire service. The federal government should be a strong partner with local communities on issues of public safety, and I will continue to push for adequate funding for programs like SAFER.- -As Ranking Member of a Homeland Security Subcommittee, I've seen an increase in resources being taken out of our local communities creating a ripple of devastating effects to our safety,- said Rep. Keating. -Cities that were manufacturing hubs at the turn of the century and have neighborhoods comprised of historical homes, such as Fall River, are often at greater fire risk. Response time to a fire is the most critical factor in protecting the lives of both citizens and firefighters. That's why staffing levels are so important. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues, Barney Frank and Jim McGovern, to make sure these funds were secured in the House and applaud Senator Kerry's work to ensure they also went through in the Senate.- -I want to commend our Federal Delegation for their hard work in securing the SAFER Grant,- said Fall River Mayor William Flanagan. -This grant will allow the City of Fall River to continue to retain its staffing levels in protecting the lives and property of our citizens. Now we must work hard together over the next two years to sustain this announcement.-
06.19.2012	
06.19.2012	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen James McGovern and William Keating, announced today that five organizations across Massachusetts will receive over $1.5 million from the U.S. Department of Labor to provide homeless veterans in M share: f t Kerry, Brown, McGovern, Keating: Massachusetts Wins $1.5 Mil for Homeless Vets Job Training Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen James McGovern and William Keating, announced today that five organizations across Massachusetts will receive over $1.5 million from the U.S. Department of Labor to provide homeless veterans in Massachusetts the job training to help them succeed in civilian careers. The funding, awarded through the Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program, will go toward assisting homeless veterans with reintegration into the workforce. Under these grants, homeless veterans may receive occupational, classroom and on-the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance, including follow-up services. -This is pretty fundamental. You send people to war, you make damn sure they're not living on the streets when they come home. this money will helping homeless vets and their families find jobs and safe housing. It's a lifesaver for vets who have been struggling in the transition back into civilian life,- said Sen. Kerry. -Too often our heroes are returning from war only to find themselves fighting a new battle at home for employment or housing. This funding demonstrates our obligation as a nation to care for our veterans, and it will help keep many of our brave men and women from falling through the cracks by providing them with the job training they need to get back on their feet,- said Sen. Brown. -I'm particularly pleased that Veterans Inc. in Worcester is receiving this federal funding. Veterans Inc. does incredible work in our community, and these grants will allow them to expand their outreach to serve more of our veterans in need,- said Rep. McGovern -Father Bill's & MainSpring is an invaluable part of our community, having helped over a hundred veterans find work. The brave men and women who serve our country deserve the chance to succeed when they return home and Father Bill's provides them with that opportunity. This grant will go a long way to helping our local veterans and community at large,- said Rep. Keating. The following organizations will receive funding: Volunteers of America of MA $300,000.00 Soldier On, Inc. $300,000.00 Interseminarian Project Place, Inc. $178,072.00 Veterans Inc. $225,000.00 Veterans Inc. $300,000.00 Father Bill's and Main Spring, Inc. $216,000.00
06.18.2012	I am deeply disappointed in Bahraini court rulings on June 14th that sentenced to jail terms nine medical professionals who were arrested and tortured after they treated Bahraini protesters share: f t Statement by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern on Bahrain's Wrongful Conviction of Medical Professionals -I am deeply disappointed in Bahraini court rulings on June 14th that sentenced to jail terms nine medical professionals who were arrested and tortured after they treated Bahraini protesters. These convictions appear to be motivated by the defendants' criticisms of the Bahraini government, and they should be overturned. During their appeal, I urge the Bahraini government to allow these medical professionals to remain at their homes, rather than being kept in jail. More broadly, Bahrain's government should release and drop charges against all detainees who have only engaged in peaceful political expression."
06.14.2012	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Edward Markey, Niki Tsongas, John Tierney, John Olver, Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen Lynch, and William Keating, today urged the Pentagon to maintain the 3-s share: f t Massachusetts Delegation Fight to Retain 3-Star Ranking at Hanscom Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Edward Markey, Niki Tsongas, John Tierney, John Olver, Richard Neal, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen Lynch, and William Keating, today urged the Pentagon to maintain the 3-star billet ranking at Hanscom Air Force Base in Bedford. -While we acknowledge and appreciate the need to restructure and realign the force to modernize and meet new threats,- the members wrote in a letter to Secretary of the Air Force and the Air Force Chief of Staff, -we take this opportunity to reiterate our shared view…that it is essential that the vital electronic systems and cyber acquisitions work conducted at Hanscom continue to be overseen by at least a Lieutenant General.- The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation has long urged Department of Defense and Pentagon officials to maintain Hanscom's ranking even in the face of possible defense cuts and reorganization. Most recently, both the House and the Senate both included provisions in their respective Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to delay the implementation of the recent Air Force reorganization plans, including the proposed changes at Hanscom. The full text of the Delegation's letter is below: June 12, 2012 The Honorable Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330-1670 General Norton A. Schwartz Air Force Chief of Staff 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington DC, 20330-1670 Dear Secretary Donley and General Schwartz, As you may recall, on April 26 of this year, members of our delegation wrote to you and respectfully asked you to reconsider the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) reorganization as it applies to the Electronic Systems Center (ESC) at Hanscom Air Force Base (AFB), Massachusetts. Specifically, we requested that you retain Hanscom's 3-star billet, which would be lost under the AFMC reorganization plan. While we acknowledge and appreciate the need to restructure and realign the force to modernize and meet new threats, we take this opportunity to reiterate our shared view and inform you of recent congressional action that underscores our view that it is essential that the vital electronic systems and cyber acquisitions work conducted at Hanscom continue to be overseen by at least a Lieutenant General. Since our previous communication, the House of Representatives has passed its version of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Included in the bill were a number of provisions which, in direct response to the announced AFMC reorganization, sought to retain the capabilities of several Air Force installations across the country, including Hanscom AFB. Section 2867, which was included by Representative Tsongas, requires the Secretary of the Air Force to retain the core functions of the ESC at Hanscom AFB, with the same integrated mission elements, responsibilities, and capabilities as existed as of November 1, 2011 until such time as they are modified pursuant to the section 10 U.S.C. 2687 (the Base Realignment and Closure statute) or a subsequent law providing for the closure or realignment of military installations in the United States. Likewise, the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) included both bill and report language (included by Senator Scott Brown) in its version of the FY13 NDAA directing the Secretary of the Air Force to preserve current leadership rank structure and core functions at Hanscom AFB with the same integrated mission elements, responsibilities and capabilities as existed on November 1, 2011, until 180 days after the National Commission on Structure of the Air Force delivers its recommendations regarding the appropriate force structure mix (as required under section 1703 in the committee report) to the four congressional defense committees. We interpret these legislative developments as a unified bicameral declaration that ESC's mission is too valuable to understate the impact that downgrading Hanscom's leadership will have on our armed forces' ability to bring forth the most effective cyber tools and resources to meet national security needs. We therefore wish to reiterate our opposition to the downgrading of Hanscom AFB from a 3-star to a 2-star billet. At a minimum, we trust you will not move forward with any AFMC implementation plans, transfers or moves related to the ESC while the FY13 NDAA is still being debated and finalized. As requested in our previous letter, we look forward to the opportunity to personally meet and discuss these vital matters at your earliest availability. Thank you for your consideration and service to our nation. Sincerely, John Kerry Scott Brown United States Senator United States Senator Edward Markey Richard Neal Member of Congress Member of Congress John Olver Jim McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress John Tierney Michael Capuano Member of Congress Member of Congress Stephen Lynch Niki Tsongas Member of Congress Member of Congress William Keating Member of Congress
06.14.2012	As you may know, the U.S. Senate is currently debating their version of the Farm Bill and the House Agriculture Committee may mark up a different version of the Farm Bill before the July 4th recess. The Senate bill cuts the Supplemental Nutrition Assistan share: f t June 13, 2012 Dear Colleague, As you may know, the U.S. Senate is currently debating their version of the Farm Bill and the House Agriculture Committee may mark up a different version of the Farm Bill before the July 4th recess. The Senate bill cuts the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), formerly known as Food Stamps, by $4.5 billion and the House version may cut even more. I write to urge you to stand with me in opposing any cuts to this important safety-net program. Some have said that cuts to SNAP will not reduce the benefits low-income families rely on to feed themselves, but this is simply not the case. The truth is that SNAP is the most effective and efficient federal program. Senator Gillibrand is currently leading the effort in the Senate to eliminate the SNAP cuts in the Senate Farm Bill and I encourage you to read the editorial in today's New York Times endorsing her amendment restoring these cuts. I also ask that you stand with me in opposing any cuts to SNAP in the House version of the Farm Bill. Sincerely, James. P. McGovern Member of Congress Food Stamps and the Farm Bill Published: June 12, 2012 The version of the farm bill that emerged from the Senate Agriculture Committee contains $4.5 billion in cuts to the food stamps program over 10 years. That amount is a small fraction of the nation's spending on food stamps, currently nearly $80 billion a year, but would, nevertheless, be devastating for nearly half-a-million households that would have their benefits sliced by an average of $90 per month, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Such a cutback in food benefits for struggling families and children is unconscionable in a bill containing plenty of unnecessary giveaways for corporate farming interests. With the Senate poised to take up the bill, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, a Democrat of New York, is waging a tough fight to restore the food-stamp cut. She has offered an amendment that would make a humane and sensible change — lowering the subsidies to highly profitable crop insurance companies to avoid any trims in the food-stamp program. It is not yet clear which of the hundreds of pending farm bill amendments will receive a vote. Senator Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, should make sure that the Gillibrand amendment gets one, and then he must rally Senate Democrats to pass it. Republicans on the House Agriculture Committee have already voted to cut food stamps by $33 billion over the next decade. A vote for Senator Gillibrand's proposal would send an important message about priorities. For the Democratic-led Senate to allow any reduction to food stamps is no way to open negotiations with the House.
06.06.2012	"The cranberry industry has long been of critical importance - not only to the Massachusetts economy but to the nation's food supply." share: f t Kerry, BrownLaunch Bipartisan Senate Cranberry Caucus Will Serve as Co-Chairs to Support Important Economic Driver in Massachusetts Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown in the Senate, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern and William Keating in the House of Representatives, today launched the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Cranberry Caucus. The Caucus will serve as a platform to educate Members of Congress, their staffs, and federal agencies about cranberry production in Massachusetts and across the United States. Specifically, the Caucus will address conservation, environmental, and nutritional benefits and concerns, along with issues surrounding the international trade of cranberries. Cranberries are one of just three commercially cultivated fruit crops native to North America and serve as an important economic driver in Massachusetts. The industry supports thousands of jobs from local cranberry growers to jobs in production, processing, exporting, and supply chain. Studies show that cranberries can help prevent Urinary Tract Infections and also contain cancer-fighting benefits. -Too many people think of farming as happening somewhere other than Massachusetts and that's a perception we have to fight. America's cranberry production began on the Cape in 1816, and ever since, this storied industry has provided jobs and homegrown industry that matters to Massachusetts. We've got over 600 farms today in Massachusetts that are putting people to work in this business,- said Sen. Kerry. -This is a bi-partisan effort, not only to raise awareness about health, but to talk about a local industry that creates jobs and tourism and spin-off industries. This is an educational effort.- -Cranberries are an iconic Massachusetts farm product, and I'm pleased to join my colleagues from Massachusetts and other cranberry producing states in founding the Congressional Cranberry Caucus,- said Sen. Brown. -This caucus will provide a platform for the cranberry industry to educate members of Congress and the public about the health benefits of cranberries, and matters related to their production and processing. With over 615 farms in our state, the cranberry industry is a major employer in Massachusetts and a force for our local economies. From the bogs to the processing facilities, employees in the cranberry industry should be proud of the products they produce.- -The cranberry industry has long been of critical importance - not only to the Massachusetts economy but to the nation's food supply,- said Rep. McGovern. -I'm very pleased to join this bipartisan, bicameral effort.- -I want to thank Senators Kerry and Brown for co-chairing the Congressional Cranberry Caucus. We look forward to working with the Caucus on important issues affecting the U.S. cranberry industry,- said Randy C. Papadellis, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ocean Spray. -We hope this effort will help Americans appreciate how exceptional the cranberry is. The nutrient density of cranberry juice cocktail and dried cranberries makes them the exception in the debate over sugar sweetened beverages and added sugar.- "We are excited to have Senators Kerry and Brown co-chair the bipartisan Cranberry Caucus,- said Jeff LaFleur, Executive Director of the Cape Cod Cranberry Growers Association. -Their leadership on our issues will ensure that the cranberry industry will be part of the national conversations that impact us directly. We know that they will continue to fight for our industry's economic development and environmental sustainability." Massachusetts is the proud home of Ocean Spray, an agricultural cooperative of more than 700 cranberry growers in Massachusetts, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Oregon, Washington, British Columbia and Quebec, in addition to hundreds of independent growers, many of whom are multi-generation families who have been involved in cranberry growing for decades. In 2011, Massachusettscranberry production totaled 2.35 million barrels, 24 percent above the production level in 2010, with growers harvesting 13,000 acres of cranberries. Senator Kerry has been a long-time supporter of the Massachusetts cranberry industry. Over the last 12 years, he has worked to secure millions of dollars in fundingfor important cranberry projects and research in an effort to keep Massachusetts on top as an industry leader.
06.06.2012	"The cranberry industry has long been of critical importance - not only to the Massachusetts economy but to the nation's food supply." share: f t McGovern Joins Kerry, Brown to Launch Bipartisan Senate Cranberry Caucus Will Serve as Co-Chairs to Support Important Economic Driver in Massachusetts Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown in the Senate, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern and William Keating in the House of Representatives, today launched the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Cranberry Caucus. The Caucus will serve as a platform to educate Members of Congress, their staffs, and federal agencies about cranberry production in Massachusetts and across the United States. Specifically, the Caucus will address conservation, environmental, and nutritional benefits and concerns, along with issues surrounding the international trade of cranberries. Cranberries are one of just three commercially cultivated fruit crops native to North America and serve as an important economic driver in Massachusetts. The industry supports thousands of jobs from local cranberry growers to jobs in production, processing, exporting, and supply chain. Studies show that cranberries can help prevent Urinary Tract Infections and also contain cancer-fighting benefits. -Too many people think of farming as happening somewhere other than Massachusetts and that's a perception we have to fight. America's cranberry production began on the Cape in 1816, and ever since, this storied industry has provided jobs and homegrown industry that matters to Massachusetts. We've got over 600 farms today in Massachusetts that are putting people to work in this business,- said Sen. Kerry. -This is a bi-partisan effort, not only to raise awareness about health, but to talk about a local industry that creates jobs and tourism and spin-off industries. This is an educational effort.- -Cranberries are an iconic Massachusetts farm product, and I'm pleased to join my colleagues from Massachusetts and other cranberry producing states in founding the Congressional Cranberry Caucus,- said Sen. Brown. -This caucus will provide a platform for the cranberry industry to educate members of Congress and the public about the health benefits of cranberries, and matters related to their production and processing. With over 615 farms in our state, the cranberry industry is a major employer in Massachusetts and a force for our local economies. From the bogs to the processing facilities, employees in the cranberry industry should be proud of the products they produce.- -The cranberry industry has long been of critical importance - not only to the Massachusetts economy but to the nation's food supply,- said Rep. McGovern. -I'm very pleased to join this bipartisan, bicameral effort.- -I want to thank Senators Kerry and Brown for co-chairing the Congressional Cranberry Caucus. We look forward to working with the Caucus on important issues affecting the U.S. cranberry industry,- said Randy C. Papadellis, President and Chief Executive Officer of Ocean Spray. -We hope this effort will help Americans appreciate how exceptional the cranberry is. The nutrient density of cranberry juice cocktail and dried cranberries makes them the exception in the debate over sugar sweetened beverages and added sugar.- "We are excited to have Senators Kerry and Brown co-chair the bipartisan Cranberry Caucus,- said Jeff LaFleur, Executive Director of the Cape Cod Cranberry Growers Association. -Their leadership on our issues will ensure that the cranberry industry will be part of the national conversations that impact us directly. We know that they will continue to fight for our industry's economic development and environmental sustainability." Massachusetts is the proud home of Ocean Spray, an agricultural cooperative of more than 700 cranberry growers in Massachusetts, Wisconsin, New Jersey, Oregon, Washington, British Columbia and Quebec, in addition to hundreds of independent growers, many of whom are multi-generation families who have been involved in cranberry growing for decades. In 2011, Massachusettscranberry production totaled 2.35 million barrels, 24 percent above the production level in 2010, with growers harvesting 13,000 acres of cranberries. Senator Kerry has been a long-time supporter of the Massachusetts cranberry industry. Over the last 12 years, he has worked to secure millions of dollars in fundingfor important cranberry projects and research in an effort to keep Massachusetts on top as an industry leader.
05.31.2012	As many of you know, I'm a vocal opponent of proposals to increase truck size and weight on our nation's highways share: f t Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety Press Conference May 31, 2012 · I want to thank Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety for their tireless work to make our roads safer for everyone. I especially want to thank today's speakers who were personally affected by a roadway tragedy. It takes a lot of courage to share your stories. · As many of you know, I'm a vocal opponent of proposals to increase truck size and weight on our nation's highways. · We have all been driving on a rainy night when one of these giant rigs comes barreling up next to us. It's nerve-wracking, and it's dangerous. · I would remind those who are advocating for bigger, heavier trucks behind closed doors that, during mark-up in the T & I Committee, Members voted 33 to 22 to strip the most egregious truck size and weight provisions from the bill. · Instead, Democrats and Republicans supported a commonsense proposal to have the Department of Transportation conduct a 3 year study on the effects of bigger, heavier trucks on our roadways before making any radical changes. The Senate bill included a 2 year study. · DOT's last truck size and weight study was completed 12 years ago. It would be foolish to move forward with any increases without knowing the full safety and infrastructure implications. · Truck size and weight studies take time to thoroughly plan, conduct and analyze. I urge conferees to take up the House bill's 3 year study language and reject any attempts rush the study by reducing it to a year or less. · I also urge conferees to retain the Senate's transportation safety title which includes a number of safety advances and new technologies. · We need to move forward on a smart, safe highway bill that invests in our infrastructure and creates jobs.
05.25.2012	This OpEd originally appeared in the Telegram and Gazette share: f t I commend the Worcester City Council for their recent unanimous vote supporting my efforts to overturn the Supreme Court's terrible decision in the Citizens Unitedcase and the -corporate rights- doctrine that underlies it. By doing so, the council has joined dozens of communities across the country and 11 state attorneys general demanding action. A large majority of Americans believe that corporations exert too much influence on our daily lives and our political process. A Hart Research poll released last year found that nearly four in five (79 percent) of registered voters support passage of a constitutional amendment to overturn Citizens United. We are already witnessing the corrosive effects ofCitizens United: an election system awash in a sea of millions of dollars in unregulated money, drowning out the voices of individual citizens. Politicians are increasingly beholden to wealthy special interests. A multinational oil company that doesn't like a politician — of either party — can now simply write a big, undisclosed check to -Americans for Apple Pie and Puppies- and watch the negative advertisements work their magic. But the effects of the corporate rights doctrine go far beyond campaign finance. A Vermont law to require that milk products derived from cows treated with bovine growth hormone be labeled to disclose that information was struck down as a violation of the First Amendment. A federal judge has found that tobacco companies have a free-speech right that prevents the government from requiring graphic warning labels on cigarettes. A pharmaceutical corporation has claimed that their corporate speech rights protect them from FDA rules prohibiting the marketing of a drug for -off-label- uses. As Justice John Paul Stevens rightly noted in his dissent in Citizens United, the majority ruling was -a radical departure from what has been settled First Amendment Law.- These corporate -rights- are relatively new, appearing in the last few decades. They overturn centuries of established jurisprudence and national consensus. The Supreme Court used to repeatedly affirm that the elected governments of the states and the nation could regulate corporations. Chief Justice John Marshall described the corporate entity as -an artificial being … existing only in contemplation of law.- No less an authority than James Madison viewed corporations as -a necessary evil- subject to -proper limitations and guards.- Thomas Jefferson wished to -crush in its birth the aristocracy of our moneyed corporations, which dare already to challenge our government to a trial of strength and bid defiance to the laws of our country.- There is nothing -originalist- about the corporate rights doctrine, and it is no mere accident that the first three words of the preamble to our Constitution are -We the People.- The framers, as Justice Anthony Kennedy said, -had little trouble distinguishing corporations from human beings, and when they constitutionalized the right to free speech in the First Amendment, it was the free speech of individual Americans that they had in mind.- Opponents of the People's Rights Amendment conjure up a nightmare scenario under which members of the media and others would be stripped of their constitutional rights. Wrong. Those rights were properly secure before the modern fabrication of the corporate rights doctrine and would continue to flourish. The people who make up those institutions, whether acting as individuals or in groups, would continue to enjoy the liberties we all hold dear and the Constitution enumerates. Corporations would continue to have legal standing to advocate on behalf of the people associated with them. But the fiction that an artificial corporate entity is itself entitled to the same rights of citizenship as people would come to an end. Corporations are created by the people, acting through their governments. We grant them corporate charters that confer certain legal rights and privileges, like the ability to enter into contracts, limited liability and perpetual life. These rights serve an important and useful role in our economy. But our most sacred and inalienable rights — those enshrined in the Constitution — should be reserved for -We the People.-
05.16.2012	Kerry, Brown, Tierney, Olver, McGovern, Tsongas, Lynch Announce $20 Mil to Help Veterans, Students Succeed Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives John Tierney, John Olver, Jim McGovern, Niki Tsongas, and Stephen F. Lynch, today announced that Massachusetts will receive over $20 million from the U.S. Department of Education's Upward Bound Program to help veterans and high school students from low-income families apply for and succeed in college. The Department of Education says they anticipate the grants will be awarded annually for five years. -Massachusetts leads the nation with almost 54 percent of our young adults earning college degrees, but there are returning veterans and low-income families who deserve an extra hand to join that list of college graduates and skilled members of the workforce. This investment will keep our state on top by making sure that veterans and kids from low-income families get all the tools to graduate ready to compete and win,- said Sen. Kerry. -These grants will help a lot of Massachusetts students and provide access to needed education assistance programs. This type of assistance is crucial for low-income and first generation students,- said Sen. Brown. -These grants will help Salem State University and North Shore Community College continue to serve students of all backgrounds - returning veterans, those from low-income households, first-generation Americans, and others who are looking to achieve their education goals. It is imperative that Congress continue to make the necessary investments in education priorities, such as Upward Bound,- said Rep. Tierney. -I am pleased that the Department of Education has awarded almost $1 million in funding for three Upward Bound programs in the First Congressional District,- said Rep. Olver. -This funding allows Fitchburg State University, UMass Amherst and the Northfield Mount Hermon School to continue to ensure that all the students are given the support they need to continue their education,- said Congressman John Olver. -Upward Bound is a tremendously successful program that provides low income and first generation students across the nation with the support and services they need to succeed.- -I have seen firsthand the incredible work that YOU, Inc. does in Worcester, and I am pleased that they will be receiving this federal grant,- said Rep. McGovern. -The TRIO program plays a vital role in ensuring that everyone has access to the resources they need to get a quality education.- -Having worked at a community college for more than a decade, I know the benefit that TRIO and Upward Bound can have in helping students thrive and succeed in the classroom and beyond,- said Rep. Tsongas. -I congratulate Middlesex Community College, Fitchburg State, and the other Massachusetts schools that were awarded these federal funds today.- "The Upward Bound/TRIO program provides critical assistance and instruction to our young people, helping them to succeed in their current studies and beyond,- said Rep. Lynch. -I am pleased to see that these grants will continue to help students here in Massachusetts.- The Upward Bound provides fundamental support to participants in their preparation for college entrance in addition to opportunities for participants to succeed in their precollege performance and ultimately in their higher education pursuits. The overall goal of the program is to increase the rate at which participants enroll in and graduate from colleges or universities. Opportunities provided include academic instruction, college visits, on-campus programs, tutoring, counseling, mentoring, cultural enrichment, and work-study programs. The following schools and programs have received funding: Fitchburg State University Fitchburg, MA $363,365 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,816,825 Salem State University Salem, MA $325,395 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,626,975 Boston University Boston, MA $385,473 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,927,365 University of Massachusetts - Amherst Amherst, MA $249,968 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,249,840 University of Massachusetts - Dartmouth North Dartmouth, MA $360,000 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,800,000 Bristol Community College Fall River, MA $345,431 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,727,155 Northfield Mount Hermon School Mount Hermon, MA $363,856 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,819,280 Suffolk University Boston, MA $262,500 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,312,500 University of Massachusetts - Boston Boston, MA $565,178 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $2,825,890 Youth Opportunities Upheld, Inc. Worcester, MA $294,000 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,470,000 Middlesex Community College Lowell, MA $250,000 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,250,000 The Education Resources Institute Boston, MA $250,000 annually for 5 years TOTAL: $1,250,000 North Shore Community College Danvers, MA Continuing Award
05.16.2012	Today, Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3), Ranking Member on the Labor, Health, and Human Services, Education Appropriations Subcommittee, Agriculture Committee Members Joe Baca (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Nutrition and Horticulture, share: f t DELAURO, BACA, MCGOVERN: MAJORITY SLASHES PROGRAM THAT FEEDS CHILDREN AND SENIORS Today, Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3), Ranking Member on the Labor, Health, and Human Services, Education Appropriations Subcommittee, held a press conference with Agriculture Committee Members Joe Baca (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Nutrition and Horticulture, and Jim McGovern (MA-03), Co-Chair of the House Hunger Caucus. They discussed the severe impacts of the bill marked up earlier today on the millions of American children, families and seniors who rely on food stamps. Earlier today, the House Agriculture Committee marked up a bill to meet the instructions in the House Majority's recently passed budget to cut $33.2 billion from programs in its jurisdiction over ten years. The Majority proposed and reported out a bill that would take all of the funding cuts from the food stamp program, ignoring all other programs within their jurisdiction. The food stamp program is designed to expand when Americans need it most - in times of economic recession. It kept more than 5 million Americans out of poverty in 2010. In December 2011, more than 46 million Americans relied on food stamps to put food on their tables. More than half of food stamp benefits go to households with an income less than half of the poverty line, or $9,265 for a family of three. Nearly 75% of food stamp participants are families with children and 25% are in households with seniors or individuals with disabilities. -Our economy was driven into the ground by the choices made in the last Administration. Now, the Majority wants to add insult to injury by taking away a valuable program that helps millions of American families put food on their tables.- said Congresswoman DeLauro -Incredibly these $33.2 billion in cuts would come on top of the cuts assumed in the Republican budget. Those cuts would slash food stamps by another $133.5 billion and fundamentally downgrade the program from one that is responsive to the needs of Americans to an inadequate block grant. Leadership is about making choices,- DeLauro said. -The Majority has made the choice to take more than $160 billion from food stamps - from the mouths of millions of hungry Americans - while preserving tax breaks for millionaires and subsidies for big agriculture companies. The bill passed by the House Agriculture Committee today is just the beginning.- -Today's sham vote taken by House Agriculture Republicans to cut $33 billion from the SNAP program is an assault on our values as a nation,- said Rep. Baca. -SNAP has been a lifeline for millions of struggling families in the economic downturn. The attempts to balance the budget on the backs of the working poor and disadvantaged are wrong, and exemplify the misplaced priorities of House Republicans. It's time to stop the political games and get to work on a real Farm Bill that protects nutrition programs, and includes a strong safety net for American families.- -Cutting an additional $33 billion from SNAP is just wrong,- Rep. McGovern said. -Why demonize and attack poor people like this? Why go after the working families who are struggling to make ends meet? None of us serving in this Congress is struggling to feed our families. But imagine if you had to look your son or daughter in the eye and tell them that you can't afford dinner tonight; that there just isn't enough money to pay for rent, gas, food and other bills for the rest of the month, so they'll just have to go without. For families like this - and they are real and there are tens of millions of them - SNAP is a lifeline. I say all the time that hunger is a political condition. We have the food and the means to end hunger, but we don't have the political will to end it. But to have the political will to actually make hunger worse, as the Republican Leadership is proposing, is unconscionable.-
05.10.2012	This bill before us would create a government where there is no conscience; where the wealthy and well connected are protected and enriched - and the middle class, the poor, and the vulnerable are essentially forgotten. share: f t I thank the gentleman from Georgia, Mr. Woodall, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself such time as I may consume. M. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this rule. It is totally closed and it denies Democrats - led by Mr. Van Hollen - a substitute. We are not asking for dozens of amendments or for something that hasn't been done in the past in regards to reconciliation bills. All we are asking for is one vote on our substitute, on what we believe is a better alternative to the Republican bill. Last night in the Rules Committee, every single Republican voted to deny Democrats that opportunity. M. Speaker, as one who doesn't believe in arbitrary and thoughtless across-the-board cuts as a way to balance our budget - I want to support Mr. Van Hollen's substitute in order to avoid the implementation of the Budget Control Act's sequester. To allow sequester to go into full effect would be bad for the country. We are here, in this awful mess, because the so-called Super Committee failed to reach agreement last fall on a comprehensive and balanced deficit reduction plan - due, in very large measure, to the absolute refusal of Republicans to put revenues on the table. Bowles-Simpson, Rivlin-Domenici, and the Gang of Six all had deficit reduction proposals that sought to be balanced with both spending cuts and revenues. They realized that you can't solve our long-term fiscal problems by slashing and burning the last century of social progress in America. But today, my Republican friends have brought to the floor a reconciliation bill that make sequestration look good. What's going on here is very simple. Very troubling, but very simple. They are protecting the massive Pentagon budget with all its waste - by exempting it from sequestration - and finding even deeper cuts in programs that benefit the people of this country. This bill before us would create a government where there is no conscience; where the wealthy and well connected are protected and enriched - and the middle class, the poor, and the vulnerable are essentially forgotten. I've never seen anything like this. It's outrageous. It takes my breath away. My Republican friends won't cut the billions in subsidies for big oil, at a time when oil companies are making record profits and gouging Americans at the pump. They won't address the inequities in the tax code which allows billionaire Warren Buffett to pay a lower tax rate than his secretary. The revenues from fixing these two unjust policies would result in billions and billions of dollars in deficit reduction. But the Republicans have protected big oil and billionaires. However, my Republican friends take a meat axe to SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps. This is a program to help poor people afford food. My friends on the other side of the aisle should heed the words of President John F. Kennedy, quote -if a free society will not help the many who are poor, they cannot save the few who are rich- end quote. M. Speaker, we are one country. We should care about one another - especially those who are most vulnerable. That's not a weakness or something we should be ashamed of. Rather, it's something that makes us strong and great. As my friends know, I've spent a lot of time and effort in Congress on the issues of hunger, food insecurity and nutrition. Tens of millions of our fellow citizens don't have enough to eat - and every single one of us, Democrats and Republicans alike, should be ashamed. That's why I am so outraged by the $36 billion in SNAP cuts. This notion that SNAP promotes a culture of dependency, that SNAP is a golden ticket to prosperity, is just wrong. Some on the Republican side have even claimed that SNAP enslaves Americans. Give me a break. In fact, even in 2010, even when unemployment was close to 10% and jobs were scarce, the majority of SNAP households with a non-disabled working-age adult were working households. Working families are trying to earn more. No one wakes up in the morning dreaming to be on SNAP, but these are tough economic times. Some people have no choice. But we know that SNAP enrollment - and spending on SNAP - will go down as the economy improves, as families see their incomes rise and no longer need SNAP to feed their families. Don't take my word for it; this is directly from the Congressional Budget Office. Of course, last night in the Rules Committee we heard the tired line that there's a lot of abuse in the SNAP program. We heard that there are countless numbers of people receiving benefits who do not deserve them. That, M. Speaker, is simply not true. It's a common and unfortunate misconception that SNAP is rife with fraud, waste and abuse. Many have decried SNAP as a handout that can be sold or traded for alcohol and other items that shouldn't be purchased with taxpayer funds. It cannot. SNAP is both effective and efficient. In fact, the error rate for SNAP is not only at an all-time low; it has among the lowest - if not the lowest - error rate of any federal program. Last night, we also heard a lot about Categorical Eligibility, a process in which a low-income person is automatically eligible for food stamps if they are already enrolled in another low-income assistance program. Categorical Eligibility makes it easier for poor people - those who are already approved for other low-income assistance programs - to receive SNAP benefits. But it also makes it easier on the states that have to administer these programs. This saves time and money because people who are already eligible for similarly-administered benefits do not have to reapply for SNAP and states do not have to waste valuable worker hours processing paperwork for people who are already eligible based on their incomes. Categorical Eligibility does not mean that people who don't qualify for SNAP get those benefits. To the contrary, people still have to qualify for the program to receive food. Any claim that this is a fraudulent practice or that it is rife with abuse is just another falsehood and smear against one of the most efficient federal programs. Cutting $33 billion means that more than 22 million households will see a cut in their benefit. This means 22 million families will have less food tomorrow than they do today. In fact, 2 million people would be cut from SNAP altogether. And 280,000 kids would lose access to free school meals. My friends on the other side of the aisle don't like to hear this, but sometimes the truth hurts: If the bill before us becomes law, it will take food out of the mouths of children in America - all in the name of protecting tax cuts for the wealthy and increased defense spending. The Republican reconciliation bill threatens Medicare, children's programs, education, infrastructure - in short, it threatens our economy as a whole. But the bill not only protects the Pentagon budget, it increases it by billions of dollars. Does anyone here believe there's not a single dollar to be saved anywhere in the Pentagon? We have - and we will continue to have - the greatest, strongest military on the face of the earth. But at some point, national security means more than throwing billions of dollars at pie-in-the-sky Star Wars programs that will never actually materialize. It means taking care of our own people. It means educating our children. It means an infrastructure that isn't crumbling around us. It means clean air and clean water and a health care system that works. Those should be our priorities. Those are not the priorities in the bill before us today. Of course, Senator Reid says this bill is dead in the water in the Senate. In a press conference yesterday, the Senate Majority Leader said, quote, -As long as Republicans refuse to consider a more reasonable approach - one that asks every American to pay his fair share while making difficult choices to reduce spending - the sequester is the only path forward- end quote. That's a pretty clear statement that the Senate will not consider this bill. And that's the right thing to do. A reasonable approach is what the American people want. Yes, they want us to get our fiscal house in order. They want us to reduce the deficit in a fair way, so that the very wealthiest among us pay their fair share. But mostly the American people want jobs - something the House Republican leadership continues to ignore. They want the economy to improve. They want their lives to get better. This bill doesn't do that. M. Speaker, let me conclude by quoting President Dwight Eisenhower in a speech he made in 1953. Quote - -Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed- - end quote. I'm afraid that President Eisenhower wouldn't recognize today's Republican Party. We should reject this rule and the underlying bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
05.02.2012	With the deadline of the May 15 moratorium on closures of postal facilities and mail processing centers rapidly approaching, thousands of jobs around the country are at risk. The Senate has already passed legislation to reform the U.S. Postal Service (USP share: f t With the deadline of the May 15 moratorium on closures of postal facilities and mail processing centers rapidly approaching, thousands of jobs around the country are at risk. The Senate has already passed legislation to reform the U.S. Postal Service (USPS), which would prevent post office closures. The House, however, has yet to consider postal reform legislation. Congressman Jim McGovern signed onto the following letter from Reps. DeLauro and Braley to the Postmaster General urging an extension of the May 15th moratorium on post office and mail processing facility closures. Dear Postmaster General Donahue, We write to urge you to extend the May 15 moratorium on post office and mail processing facility closures until the Congress has completed action on postal reform legislation. The recent Senate passage of the 21st Century Postal Service Act of 2012 (S. 1789) is evidence that Congress is moving toward putting the United States Postal Service (USPS) on a path to sustainability, and suggests that it would be imprudent of USPS to close any facilities until Congress completes legislation on this critical issue. We understand that the USPS cannot sustain itself under its current system, and we agree it is up to Congress to act. There are, however, a number of cost saving provisions in the Senate bill that require consideration, including access to $11 billion that USPS overpaid into federal retirement accounts. In addition, the bill would reduce the amount of money that USPS has to prefund for retiree health benefits by amortizing the costs over 40 years and re-calculating those costs more appropriately. Finally, the bill would allow the postal service to provide additional services, creating more opportunity for additional revenue. Without an extension of the May 15 moratorium, Congress will not be given the opportunity to fully consider these cost-saving provisions. Furthermore, we also urge you to recognize the disastrous impact that the closings of Area Mail Processing Centers and other facilities across the country would have on local and national unemployment. The USPS is a major employer around the country and employs over 8 million workers. With an unacceptably high unemployment rate, this is a particularly inopportune that the USPS to close facilities. Again, we urge you to extend the May 15 moratorium to allow Congress time to finalize comprehensive postal reform legislation that would take meaningful steps to create a financially sound future for the USPS, while leaving intact the important services Americans rely on and expect. It is critically important the postal service not preempt Congressional action by unilaterally progressing with elimination of overnight delivery, allowing for major shutdowns across the country of mail processing facilities. Thank you for your consideration of this critical issue. We look forward to continuing our work to create a more stable fiscal future for the USPS while also upholding this essential service for our communities, state, and country.
05.02.2012	Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen John Olver, Michael Capuano, Richard Neal, William Keating, James McGovern, and John Tierney, today announced that 11 community health centers across Massachusetts will receive $33,716,628 to support renovation a share: f t Kerry, Olver, Capuano, Neal, Keating, McGovern, Tierney Announce $33.7 Mil for Massachusetts Community Health Centers Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen John Olver, Michael Capuano, Richard Neal, William Keating, James McGovern, and John Tierney, today announced that 11 community health centers across Massachusetts will receive $33,716,628 to support renovation and construction projects that will help to create jobs, expand affordable health care, and boost the centers' ability to serve more patients. This is the latest round of federal funding delivered to Massachusetts as part of the health reform law and is awarded throughtwo capital programs - the Building Capacity Grant and Immediate Facility Improvements Program. The funding will go toward longer-term projects that will expand facilities, improve existing services, and serve more patients, in addition to addressing pressing facility and equipment needs. -Community health centers across Massachusetts are a lifeline for hundreds of thousands of people,- said Sen. Kerry. -This investment will do what we worked to do in the Affordable Care Act, which is provide more services to more patients, and help provide quality, affordable service day in and day out.- -I am happy to see that both the Holyoke Health Center and Community Health Connections, Inc. in Fitchburg received this funding to help increase access to these two vital community health partners,- said Rep. Olver. -No one should question the importance of preventative care and we as a nation must continue to invest in community health centers like these, who are on the ground every day making sure everyone has access to the comprehensive healthcare and services they need.- -Community health centers are so important to the well being of our neighborhoods because of the services they provide and the programming that they offer,- said Rep. Capuano. -These funds will help existing community health centers do even more for their patients by improving existing facilities and expanding services.- -For many years, I have been a strong advocate of expanding community health care centers throughout western Massachusetts,- said Rep. Neal. -These centers provide families in cities like Springfield and Holyoke crucial access to health care services and preventive care. They also a terrific economic development engine. I believe we should improve and expand access to quality care, and these federal funds will allow our local community health centers to continue to deliver care to thousands of people in the Pioneer Valley.- -It cannot be disputed that Community Health Centers are a vital part of our health care system, providing services to over 600,000 Massachusetts residents,- said Rep. Keating. -The invaluable services this funding would provide including 3 additional examination rooms, a new full-time geriatrician to serve the growing elder population and a new center of primary care for residents of public housing with available shuttle van service. Thanks to the $500,000 grant, Manet's Hull site will be able to serve 1,508 additional patients, totaling over 4,500 patients treated annually. The $5 million grant, which continues the expansion of the North Quincy site, will allow 7,000 new patients to be treated, raising the annual total to over 30,000. These grants will translate into real results and solutions for many residents in our area and I applaud the Obama Administration for awarding Manet these funds.- -The Family Health Center does incredible work in Worcester, and I was proud to be a strong supporter of their application,- said Rep. McGovern. -Community health centers are vital components of our health care system. This funding will allow the Family Health Center to better provide services to families in our community.- -The North Shore Community Health Center has a long history of providing essential health services to men, women and children in our communities,- said Rep. Tierney. -This $489,500 federal grant, funded through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, will allow the organization to modernize its infrastructure and expand services in Salem. I applaud all the hard working men and women who staff the four health center sites and ensure that our families have access to the health care they need.- Today in Massachusetts, 50 community health centers provide high quality care to some 800,000 residents through more than 280 sites statewide. As a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee, Kerry fought to include increased funding to community health centers as part of national health reform. This month, he sent a letter to the Health Resources and Services Administrator Wakefield on behalf of the Joseph M. Smith Community Health Center in support of its application for funding. The following community health centers have received funding under the Building Capacity Grant Program: Family Health Center of Worcester, Inc. Worcester, MA $5,000,000 Manet Community Health Center, Inc. Quincy, MA $5,000,000 Joseph M. Smith Community Health Center Allston, MA $5,000,000 New England Hospital Dba Dimock Chc Roxbury, MA $4,950,479 Harbor Health Services Mattapan, MA $4,525,075 Fenway Community Health Center Boston, MA $3,750,000 Holyoke Health Center, Inc. Holyoke, MA $2,872,350 The following community health centers have received funding under the Immediate Facility Improvements Program: Brockton Neighborhood Health Center Brockton, MA $500,000 Manet Community Health Center Quincy, MA $500,000 North Shore Community Health, Inc. Salem, MA $498,500 Holyoke Health Center, Inc. Holyoke, MA $413,943 Community Health Connections, Inc. Fitchburg, MA $396,344 Caring Health Center Springfield, MA $309,937
04.27.2012	A House GOP Political Ploy -- Jeopardizing Stopping the Doubling of Student Loan Interest Rate by Using A Partisan Poison Pill As An Offset The Choice Is Clear: Protecting Big Oil or Ensuring the Health of Women & Children Key Points: Today, the House will consider H.R. 4628, a political ploy by the House GOP Leadership - a bill that calls for preventing the increase in the student loan rate on July 1, and yet undermines any chance of bipartisan action to ensure the rate increase is blocked by insisting on an offset that undermines health care for women and children. Democrats are pleased that on April 25 House Republicans abruptly changed course and endorsed preventing the student loan rate increase, after months of inaction. However, Republicans squandered a chance to build on a bipartisan consensus to act by using this unacceptable offset. The Statement of Administration Policy states, -If the President is presented with H.R. 4628, his senior advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.- It also states, -Unfortunately, rather than finding common ground on a way to pay for this critical policy, H.R. 4628 includes an attempt to repeal the Prevention and Public Health Fund… Women, in particular will benefit from this Prevention Fund, which would provide for hundreds of thousands of screenings for breast and cervical cancer.- Instead of closing the tax loopholes of Big Oil, Republicans are choosing to take billions of dollars that would be used to improve the health care of low-income and middle-income women and children to reduce student loan rates for low-income and middle-income college students. They are robbing Peter to pay Paul. It is the wrong choice for America. The GOP bill completely repeals the Prevention and Public Health Fund, which would have a disproportionate impact on America's women and children. It means stripping away vital funding for breast and cancer screenings, childhood immunizations, and screening newborns for birth defects. By contrast, House Democrats have introduced a responsible bill (H.R. 4816) to block the increase in the student loan rate. Unlike the GOP offset, the Democratic offset reflects the priorities of the American people - instead of undermining the health of women and children, the Democratic offset ends tax breaks for the Big Five oil companies, which are enjoying record profits. The GOP repeal of the Prevention and Public Health Fund is opposed by nearly 800 organizations, including the American Lung Association, American Heart Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, and Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs. House Republicans ignored the rate increase issue for months. Last week, Republicans adopted the Republican budget, which provided for the rate increase to proceed. Also, key House Republicans expressed opposition to blocking the rate increase. -Extending the low rate would be too costly, [Chairman John] Kline said. ‘We must now choose between allowing interest rates to rise or piling billions of dollars on the backs of taxpayers,' he said.- [New York Times, 4/20] I. It is Critical that Congress Act to Stop the Doubling of the Student Loan Rate on July 1 · Democrats are committed to enacting legislation before the July 1st deadline that will block the doubling of the student loan rate. · Congress should not be building more hurdles for young people to get the education or the skills needed to succeed. o The interest rates on more than 7 million students will double to 6.8 percent on July 1st. o Every year Congress doesn't act will cost a student borrower $1,000 in additional repayment costs. o Failure to act now will add $6.3 billion to students' debt burden in one year alone. · The doubling of loan rates will hit students at a time when they can least afford it. o Young Americans have the highest unemployment rate of any other group. o Two-thirds of the Class of 2010 graduated with student loan debt. o Those graduates left school with an average of $25,000 of student loan debt. II. GOP Offset Is Unacceptable: Undermining the Health of Women and Children, By Repealing The Prevention and Public Health Fund Repealing Prevention and Public Health Fund Would Disproportionately Harm America's Women and Children The Prevention and Public Health Fund is designed to assist community efforts to prevent disease, detect it early, and manage conditions before they become severe - and it has been particularly important for America's women and children. · The importance of the Fund for women and children is highlighted by some of the key priorities receiving funding through the Fund. For example, under the President's FY 2013 budget proposal, the Prevention and Public Health Fund would provide: o $143 million for breast and cervical cancer screenings; o $107 million for programs to address birth defects, including screening of newborns for hearing loss and congenital heart defects; and o $72 million for childhood vaccinations. · Similarly, according to the Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs, following are some planned Prevention and Public Health Fund investments for FY 2012 to improve the health of women and their families: o Reversing the Obesity Epidemic Among Women of Reproductive Age ($236 million):The increasing prevalence of overweight and obesity among women of childbearing age is a growing public health concern. The Community Transformation Grant program, which is a centerpiece of the Prevention Fund, is supporting state and local efforts to promote nutrition and physical activity and reduce obesity, which will improve the health of women of childbearing age and promote healthy birth outcomes. o Preventing Disease through the 317 Immunization Program ($190 million): Routine childhood immunizations prevent 14 million cases of disease and 33,000 deaths every year, resulting in an annual cost savings of $9.9 billion in direct medical costs and an additional $43.3 billion in indirect costs. These investments will help moms have the peace of mind that their children are protected from preventable disease. o Protecting Moms and Babies from Tobacco ($93 million): Tobacco use during pregnancy increases the risk of spontaneous abortion, ectopic pregnancy, low birthweight, Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, premature birth, and other fetal and maternal complications. Funding for the Prevention and Public Health Fund is being directed toward tobacco prevention programs including media and quit lines reaching women of childbearing age. Repealing Prevention and Public Health Fund Will Increase Health Care Costs · A report from Trust for America's Health entitled -Prevention for a Healthier America- concluded that there is more than a five-to-one return on investments in public health. Specifically, the report concluded that investing $10 per person per year in proven community-based programs that increase physical activity, improve nutrition, prevent smoking and other tobacco use could save the country more than $16 billion annually within 5 years. That is a return of $5.60 for every dollar. Repealing Prevention and Public Health Fund Is Opposed by Nearly 800 Organizations The GOP repeal of the Prevention and Public Health Fund is opposed by nearly 800 organizations, including the American Lung Association, American Heart Association, American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, American Academy of Pediatrics, Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs, National Association of Children's Hospitals, and Voices for America's Children. Here is what a few groups have stated. · American Lung Association: -Because of the Prevention Fund, states and communities are now able to help more people quit smoking through cessation programs and preventing and treating lung diseases, including COPD, lung cancer, and asthma. … Prevention programs work. Prevention saves lives and keeps people healthy. Congress must not play politics with our nation's health. The American Lung Association strongly urges Congress to reject this absurd choice.- · National Partnership for Women & Families: -Already there are several key initiatives funded by the Prevention and Public Health Trust Fund that are benefitting women including: 1) Chronic Disease Prevention: to enable communities to use evidence-based interventions to reduce chronic conditions and prevent heart attacks, diabetes, strokes, cancer, and other conditions that impact women; 2) Obesity Prevention and Fitness: to improve nutrition and increase physical activity to reduce obesity-related conditions and health care costs.- · Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs: -[States] rely heavily on the Section 317 Immunization program to vaccinate underserved children. Repealing the Prevention and Public Health Fund would strip $190 million from the program in FY 2012 alone. We cannot make up that loss, leaving thousands of children without vital immunizations.- III. Democratic Offset Is Supported by American Public: Getting Rid of Tax Breaks for Big Oil · Unlike the Republicans, House Democrats have proposed a responsible bill to block the increase in the student loan rate - using an offset that the American public supports. · On April 25, House Democrats introduced H.R. 4816 (Rep. Tierney), which stops the doubling of the student loan rate on July 1 and is paid for by ending certain tax breaks for Big Oil. · The Democratic bill would eliminate a 2004 manufacturing subsidy for the Big Five oil companies, which is unwarranted and unnecessary - at a time of record profits for the Big Five. o The five largest oil companies took in a record $137 billion in profits last year, after raking in nearly $1 trillion in the previous decade. o This week, ExxonMobil reported that it made $9.45 billion in profits, or almost $104 million per day, in the first three months of this year. The oil industry receives $4 billion in tax breaks per year.
04.26.2012	Currently, commuters who drive to work and park are eligible for up to $240 in pre-tax benefits per month from their employer while commuters who take mass transit such as commuter rail, subways, buses or vanpools are only eligible for up to $125 a month. share: f t Testimony of Representative James P. McGovern (MA-03) Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures -Members Day- on Tax Extenders April 26, 2012 Chairman Tiberi, Ranking Member Neal and Members of the Subcommittee - Thank you for the opportunity to testify today in support of extending parity for the transit benefit. As you know, parity expired at the end of the 2011 calendar year. Currently, commuters who drive to work and park are eligible for up to $240 in pre-tax benefits per month from their employer while commuters who take mass transit such as commuter rail, subways, buses or vanpools are only eligible for up to $125 a month. Commuters who drive and park were actually eligible for an increase in their monthly parking benefit at the start of 2012 because of an automatic cost-of-living adjustment. At a time of high gas prices and when many families are still struggling financially from the recession, it makes no sense to penalize commuters who utilize mass transit. This Congress, I was proud to reintroduce H.R. 2412, the Commuter Benefits Equity Act, to make permanent transit benefit parity. I am proud to say this bill has 74 bipartisan cosponsors. I want to recognize two of my colleagues, Congressman Grimm and Congressman Blumenauer, for their efforts to extend the transit benefit. In December 2011, we organized a bipartisan letter to House leaders to extend the transit benefit in the payroll tax cut package. It was signed by 50 Members. Then again in February, we organized another bipartisan letter - this time signed by 72 Members - urging that the transit benefit be extended in the continuing payroll discussions. In recognition of the extremely difficult fiscal times in which we find ourselves, our letter proposed establishing parity at the revenue-neutral maximum level of $200 per month for parking and transit benefits. The federal transit benefit is a perfect example of how targeted and effective federal policy can benefit both employees - as a way to save money on their commute - and employers - as an attractive fringe benefit to offer their workers. Employees and employers receive a pre-tax benefit, resulting in sound fiscal savings for both. It simply makes sense to re-establish parity between parking and mass transit benefits. It's good for employers, good for employees, good for the environment and helps take cars off our congested roads. I am hopeful that you will restore parity in a tax extenders package and I welcome any questions that you may have.
04.26.2012	Students from Algonquin Regional, Bancroft, Diman Regional Vocational, Franklin, Holliston, Marlborough, Wachusett Regional also winners share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA3) announced today that Isabel Rummelhoff, a student at Holliston High School, has won the 2012 Congressional Art Competition for Massachusetts' Third Congressional District for her piece "Derp." -Derp- will hang in the United States Capitol for the next year, alongside other winning artwork from throughout the country. Rummelhoff will attend an unveiling ceremony at the Capitol with Congressman McGovern and other winning entrants from around the nation later this year. -Every year, I am staggered by the quality of art being produced by high school students in my district,- said Congressman McGovern. Their work is a testament to the need for strong arts programs in our schools. I'm honored to have such amazing submissions to our district's competition.- -I especially want to congratulate Isabel, whose piece -Derp- demonstrates incredible technical skill, creativity, and artistic maturity.- Congressman McGovern presented Rummelhoff with her official notification at an Artists' Reception Saturday, April 21st at his Worcester District Office, where individual category winners were announced as well. Other winning artwork from the district will hang at McGovern's Worcester office for the next year. 116 students from over a dozen schools in the 3rd Congressional District submitted over 180 pieces to the competition. The national competition, initiated by Congress in 1982, includes hundreds of thousands of high school students from across the nation. One piece from each congressional district will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, DC.
04.20.2012	On December 9th, Tip O'Neill would have celebrated his 100th birthday. In honor of this milestone and his instrumental role in protecting the pristine beauty of the Cape Cod seashore, all twelve members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation, share: f t Markey, Massachusetts Delegation Introduce Legislation to Name Cape Cod Visitors Center After Tip O'Neill H.R. 4400 would designate the Salt Pond Visitor Center at Cape Cod National Seashore as the Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Salt Pond Visitor Center On December 9th, Tip O'Neill would have celebrated his 100th birthday. In honor of this milestone and his instrumental role in protecting the pristine beauty of the Cape Cod seashore, all twelve members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation, joined by current Democratic Leader of the House Nancy Pelosi, have co-sponsored legislation introduced today in the House by dean of the Massachusetts delegation Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-Malden) and in the Senate by Senator John Kerry (D-Mass.). The legislation renames the Cape Cod National Seashore's main visitor center The Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Salt Pond Visitor Center. In 1958, Representative Tip O'Neill, along with Rep. Edward Boland, introduced legislation to protect a 40-mile stretch of Cape Cod's outer beach as a national seashore. Three years later on August 7, 1961, President Kennedy signed into law the legislation authorizing the Cape Cod National Seashore and in 1966, the Cape Cod National Seashore was formally established with a May 30, 1966 ceremony inaugurating the Salt Pond Visitor Center that Rep. O'Neill attended. Since then, the Cape Cod National Seashore has become a destination for countless Massachusetts families and millions of international visitors, a natural marvel of landscapes and structures that offer a glimpse of Cape Cod's past and unique ways of life. Tip O'Neill and his family maintained a home on Cape Cod in Harwich Port, and he was a frequent visitor to the National Seashore during his tenure in Congress and in his retirement years after having served in public life for 50 years, including 34 years as a member of Congress and ten years as Speaker of the House, the longest continuous term of any Speaker since the first Congress met in 1789. -Tip O'Neill was a master legislator who dedicated his entire life to Massachusetts and our country,- said Rep. Markey, top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee, which has jurisdiction over national parks.-The squawking of politicians in Washington may have been Tip's weekday passion, but the squawking of birds on the Cape is what brought him weekend peace. Tip was instrumental in protecting the national treasure that is the beaches, marches and dunes of the Cape Cod seashore. Just as Tip honored the Cape throughout his life and career, this legislation will forever honor Tip's life and service to the Cape and our nation. As a citizen of Massachusetts and dean of the Congressional delegation, I am pleased to join my colleagues in introducing this bill to forever recognize a great defender of the natural beauty of Cape Cod.- -Tip famously taught us that all politics was local, and in his golden years there was nothing more local or personal for him and his family than the Cape Cod seashore,- said Senator Kerry. -It's a place where he left deep footprints and loved watching his grandkids leave their own footprints in the sand. He was a legislative force like none other, and like Ted Kennedy, he knew how special this place was, and that's why he made the phone calls, wrote the legislation, and had all the conversations it took to win the National Seashore designation. It seems only fitting that we honor this cherished place with the namesake of a Massachusetts treasure, Tip O'Neill.- -Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan proved what can be accomplished in Washington when members of opposite parties look for friends and not for fights,- said Senator Scott Brown. -Because he loved the Cape, this is a fitting honor for the former speaker, and I am pleased to be a cosponsor.- -Speaker O'Neill loved the Cape, and he was absolutely instrumental in preserving its legacy for future generations,- said James McGovern. -I'm very proud to support this resolution and I applaud Ed Markey for his leadership.- -I am pleased to lend my support to this measure,- said Rep. James W. Olver. -Naming the Cape Cod National Seashore's main visitor facility after Speaker O'Neill is a tribute to his love of the Cape and a reminder of Tip's enduring legacy both in Massachusetts and in Congress.- -Tip O'Neill's commitment and dedication helped establish the Cape Cod National Seashore,- said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch. -The Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Salt Pond Visitor Center is a fitting tribute for all Tip O' Neill did to preserve the beauty and the history of the Cape's seashore. I am honored to join my Massachusetts colleagues in support of this resolution.- -This effort to rename the Salt Pond Visitor Center at Cape Cod National Seashore as the Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Salt Pond Visitor Center, is a great tribute to the former Speaker of the House's fierce advocacy for the Cape Cod Seashore,- said Rep. John Tierney. -Tip O'Neill was a strong champion for families and communities across our state and this recognition is well deserved.- -Renaming the Salt Pond Visitor Center at the Cape Cod National Seashore is a fitting tribute to the great former House Speaker, Tip O'Neill, who was instrumental in establishing the seashore as a national park,- said Rep. Michael Capuano. -It is one of Massachusetts' most beautiful natural treasures. Tip served his constituents and his state with distinction, and his legacy is evident throughout the Commonwealth.- -No one took more pleasure from spending time on Cape Cod than Tip O'Neill,- said Rep. Richard E. Neal. -He had home in Harwich Port, and during the summer he would frequently enjoy a round of golf, a bowl of chowder and a Red Sox game. The Speaker appreciated the natural beauty of the Cape and had a love of the sea. I am happy to support this resolution honoring my old friend whose name now will be forever associated with a place he cherished.- -The Cape was a very special place in the O'Neill family life, so it is fitting that Tip O'Neill - like the National Seashore itself - will be remembered as a true icon of Massachusetts,- said Rep. William Keating. -There is no better way to honor his life or service than by naming an active and vibrant Visitor Center after him. Just as his work lives on, the Visitor Center will continue to open the door to the National Seashore for generations to come.- -Tip O'Neill's many contributions to the Commonwealth include the establishment of the Cape Cod National Seashore which has attracted millions of visitors since its creation in 1961 and preserves this natural treasure for the enjoyment of generations to come,- said Rep. Niki Tsongas. -The renaming of the Visitors Center in honor of Tip is a fitting recognition of his enduring legacy.- -History sometimes deflates the reputation of political leaders. In the case of Tip O'Neill, the opposite is true,- said Rep. Barney Frank. -It was clear when he retired that he had been a great Speaker of the House and had performed significant service for his country. With the passage of time, that has become even clearer. Tip made a very hard and important job look easy.-
04.20.2012	Members of the U.S. House of Representatives who participate in the Congressional Monitoring Group on Labor Rights in Colombia issued the following statement today. The Monitoring Group was formed after Congress approved the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion share: f t U.S. Members of Congress Continue to Monitor Implementation of Colombia Labor Action Plan Members of the U.S. House of Representatives who participate in the Congressional Monitoring Group on Labor Rights in Colombia issued the following statement today. The Monitoring Group was formed after Congress approved the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement to monitor implementation of the Colombian Action Plan Related to Labor Rights and ensure that it produces meaningful results in protecting the fundamental internationally-recognized rights of workers, including providing protection from threats and violence, and prosecuting recent and past murders of trade union leaders. -When President Obama announced this week that the Administration intends to put the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement into force next month, he noted that while Colombia has made significant progress to ensure the protection of labor rights, but we all know that more work still needs to be done. The Congressional Monitoring Group on Labor Rights in Colombia remains committed to ensuring that both the U.S. and Colombia continue to make progress on labor rights including the commitments announced in the Colombian Action Plan Related to Labor Rights.- -The purpose of the Labor Action Plan is to change the legal and security landscape in Colombia that allowed thousands of Colombians who were union members to be killed and intimidated with impunity and fundamental worker rights to be systematically undermined. The transformation of commitments made in the Labor Action Plan into meaningful change on the ground for workers' rights has yet to be fully realized, and Colombia faces a long and challenging road to assure that workers can freely exercise fundamental internationally recognized rights. Ensuring that the Labor Action Plan works as intended is vital to that effort.- -The Colombian Government has taken important action to improve labor rights, but until more change is realized on the ground, the Monitoring Group's work is not done. We will continue to engage governments, workers, employers, labor, and non-governmental organizations to monitor the implementation of the Labor Action Plan, the enforcement of its key elements, and help all parties achieve tangible results.- In addition to labor rights and the prevention and prosecution of perpetrators of violence against labor leaders, the Monitoring Group also monitors the situation of Colombian human rights defenders, victims' and land rights leaders, and the implementation of the Victims' and Land Restitution Law, including the protection of returning communities. The Monitoring Group includes U.S. Representatives Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer, George Miller, Sander Levin, Howard Berman, Rosa DeLauro, Jim McGovern, Michael Michaud, Sam Farr, Joseph Crowley and Henry -Hank- Johnson, Jr.
04.20.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today introduced the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012. The bill would impose a visa ban and asset freeze on individuals responsible for the death of Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, as well as on individua share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern Introduces -Magnitsky Bill- Imposing Sanctions on Human Rights Violators U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today introduced the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Accountability Act of 2012. The bill, H.R. 4405, would impose a visa ban and asset freeze on individuals responsible for the death of Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, as well as on individuals responsible for other gross violations of human rights. Original co-sponsors of the legislation include House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), House Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Sander Levin (D-MI), and Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA). Attached are a PDF and one-page summary of the bill.
04.18.2012	I oppose the measure before us today for one simple reason - it will make hunger in America worse. There are nearly 49 million hungry Americans in this country; 17 million are children. For those who don't know or remember, we once had people li share: f t Mr. Chairman, I oppose the measure before us today for one simple reason - it will make hunger in America worse. There are nearly 49 million hungry Americans in this country; 17 million are children. For those who don't know or remember, we once had people living in this country who had sunken eyes and swollen bellies because they weren't getting enough food. Thankfully and I'm proud to say, we have an anti-hunger safety-net that prevents us from returning to those awful days. Food Stamps, now called SNAP, school meals and other programs are literally a lifeline. Yes, funding for SNAP has increased over the past decade. It increased during President Bush's two terms and it has increased during President Obama's term. It increased for two reasons - first because of program improvements and second because of need. Prior to the last Farm Bill, the average SNAP benefit was one dollar per person per day. Imagine having to feed a family on that meager amount. President Bush increased programmatic funding for SNAP so people could buy healthier foods and to keep up with the rising cost of food. The Great Recession resulted in more people falling into poverty, in more people needing help. I would remind my colleagues that most of those receiving SNAP benefits work. They qualify for SNAP not because they want a handout but because their wages are so low that they cannot afford to put food on their tables. This notion that SNAP promotes a culture of dependency, that SNAP is a golden ticket to prosperity, is just wrong. Working families are trying to earn more. No one wakes up in the morning dreaming to be on SNAP, but these are tough economic times. Some people have no choice. But we know that SNAP enrollment - and spending on SNAP - will go down as the economy improves, as families see their incomes rise and no longer need SNAP to feed their families. Don't take my word for it, this is directly from the Congressional Budget Office. A common and unfortunate misconception about SNAP is that it is rife with fraud, waste and abuse. Many have decried SNAP as a handout that can be sold or traded for alcohol and other items that shouldn't be purchased with taxpayer funds. It cannot. SNAP is both effective and efficient. In fact, the error rate for SNAP is not only at an all-time low; it has among the lowest - if not the lowest - error rate of any federal program. SNAP's payment error rate was 3.81% in 2010, the most recent data available. Diving deeper into this error rate, we see that only 3% of all SNAP benefits represented overpayments. Compare this, for example, to the most recent IRS data that shows that the tax noncompliance rate was 16.9% in 2006, representing a $385 billion loss. SNAP is not only an effective program, it is also an efficient one. I know we have a budget deficit that we need to address. We need to do so in a balanced and comprehensive way. But doing it by cutting SNAP - like the Majority is proposing to do today - is just wrong. There are 18.5 million kids on SNAP; 22.2 million people who receive SNAP are female; and there are 3.1 million seniors on SNAP. Cutting $33 billion means that more than 22 million households will see a cut in their benefit. This means 22 million families will have less food tomorrow than they do today. In fact, 2 million people would be cut from SNAP altogether. And 280,000 kids would lose access to free school meals. Let me repeat that - women, children and the elderly will have less food on their plates if this Committee passes $33 billion in cuts to SNAP. There are other programs in this Committee's jurisdiction that we ought to look at first for deficit reduction, including direct payments and crop insurance. Why demonize and attack poor people like this? Why go after the working families who are struggling to make ends meet? None of us serving on this Committee is struggling to feed our families. But imagine if you had to look your son or daughter in the eye and tell them that you can't afford dinner tonight; that there just isn't enough money to pay for rent, gas, food and other bills for the rest of the month, so they'll just have to go without. For families like this - and they are real and there are tens of millions of them - SNAP is a lifeline. I say all the time that hunger is a political condition. We have the food and the means to end hunger, but we don't have the political will to end it. But to have the political will to actually make hunger WORSE, as this Committee is about to do, is unconscionable. I yield back the balance of my time.
04.17.2012	U.S. Representative James P. McGovern Statement on -Hunger Hits Home- documentary and Hunger in America April 17, 2012 M. Speaker, this past Saturday, the Food Network premiered their first ever documentary called -Hunger Hits Home.- This powerful program showed the struggle that millions of Americans go through just to put food on their tables. I urge my colleagues - indeed, all Americans - to watch it. It's fitting that the Food Network, a cable network that focuses on cooking, would choose to highlight the scourge of hunger with its first documentary. That's because food is at the heart of the problem. While 435 Members of Congress and 100 Senators will never have to worry about going hungry, there are nearly 49 million people who struggle each year to put food on their table. 17 million kids each year go hungry. And those numbers are getting worse, not better. The Food Network aired this documentary because of the hard work of the good people at Share Our Strength. Led by my good friend Billy Shore, Share Our Strength is a leader in the fight to end child hunger and this effort wouldn't be where it is today without them. We have more than enough food in America to feed everyone. We also have the delivery systems to ensure that food gets to those people who need it. The problem is politics. We have made a political decision not to end to hunger. We have the means, the food and the programs to ensure that not one person goes without food in this country. What we lack, M. Speaker, is the political will to actually make it happen. We should remember that while there is a cost to ending hunger, the cost of doing nothing is so much more. According to a report from the Center for American Progress and Brandeis University, hunger costs America more than $261 billion each year. That's billion with a b. Specifically, hunger costs, quote, -at least$167.5 billion due to the combination of lost economic productivity per year, more expensive public education because of the rising costs of poor education outcomes, avoidable health care costs, and the cost of charity to keep families fed. This $167.5 billion does not include the cost of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and the other key federal nutrition programs, which run at about $94 billion a year.We call this $167.5 billion America's hunger bill. In 2010 it cost every citizen $542 due to the far-reaching consequences of hunger in our nation. At the household level the hunger bill came to at least $1,410 in 2010. And because our $167.5 billion estimate is based on a cautious methodology, the actual cost of hunger and food insecurity to our nation is probably higher- - end quote. $167.5 billion. That's a lot of money. It's a staggering amount. Yet we continue to ignore those costs and allow hunger to grow in America. We know that hunger would be even worse in the country if it weren't for programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP, the school meal programs and other federal anti-hunger programs. These programs are literally a lifeline for millions of hungry children, parents and seniors. I believe we can end hunger in America if we muster the political will to do so. Fighting hunger has traditionally been a bipartisan effort. Unfortunately, the Republican leadership is pushing an agenda that will actually make hunger worse in America. Tomorrow, the Agriculture Committee will mark up legislation that cuts $33 billion from the most important anti-hunger program we have in this country. SNAP is a program that not only provides food to low income parents, seniors and children; it also provides the most effective form of economic stimulus and it actually reduces poverty. Yet the Republican leadership continues to demagogue the program as wasteful as fraudulent and as something that is growing out of control. But nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, SNAP is among the most effective AND efficient federal programs. The truth is that SNAP error rates are around 3%. I challenge anyone to find me a Defense Department programs with 3% error rates. I look forward to the time when the Republican leadership stops using hunger as a wedge issue and lets this becomes a bipartisan issue once again. Hunger Hits Home shows us the problem facing this nation. The challenge is presented to us - are we going to end hunger once and for all? So far, the answer from the Republican leadership is a resounding ‘no' and I regret that very much. I yield back the balance of my time.
04.16.2012	"I am disappointed in the President's decision to bring the FTA into force so quickly." share: f t STATEMENT BY U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ON COLOMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT -I am disappointed in the President's decision to bring the FTA into force so quickly. At a time when threats and murders of human rights and land rights leaders are escalating, and threats and violence against labor activists continue unabated, this premature decision sends the wrong signal at the wrong time. Colombia's new ministries and enforcement mechanisms, while welcome, have yet to make a difference in the workplace, and threats against unionists and workers attempting to organize continue unabated. As a member of the Congressional Monitoring Group, I will continue to keep the Administration's and the Colombian government's feet to the fire until impunity comes to an end and Colombia's workers can safely and freely exercise their rights.-
03.29.2012	This is one more opportunity lost, one more opportunity squandered, by this Republican-controlled House. share: f t I thank the gentleman from Florida for yielding the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself such time as I may consume. M. Speaker, this is one more opportunity lost, one more opportunity squandered, by this Republican-controlled House. We are just days away from the expiration of the laws that authorize our Surface Transportation programs, and yet here we are debating a politically charged, unnecessary and partisan bill that just kicks the can down the road a few months. Last month, this House began - but could not finish - consideration of the most partisan-drafted, possibly the only partisan-drafted, highway reauthorization bill. Let me repeat that, the House could not complete consideration of the Republican bill; a Republican bill that would have been considered a joke if it weren't such a serious breach of responsibility. This is like a bad soap opera - just when the twists and turns can't get more fantastical and crazy, someone comes up with an even zanier idea just to keep the plot lines moving along. I'm waiting for the mysterious twin brother to show up. And the plot line here is that the Republican leadership keeps manufacturing ways not to do the simple thing, the right thing - and that is to pass the Senate bill; the two-year bill that passed the Senate 74 to 22, clearly and overwhelmingly in a bipartisan fashion. It's refreshing, and a bit strange, when the Senate can put their ideological differences aside and actually pass a decent bill. It's not every day that Senator Barbara Boxer and Senator James Inhofe agree on a bill, but that's what happened with the Senate bill. Now, I'm not going to stand here and say that the Senate bill is the bill I would have drafted. To the contrary, I want a five year reauthorization that is fully funded, a bill that results in real jobs, and a bill that invests in important areas like public transit. While the Senate bill lasts for only two years, it is a good start and is much better than the Republican proposal we have here today. For my colleagues who have a short memory, let me recap where we were last month. The Republican leadership took a thousand page bill - undoubtedly the most partisan transportation bill in Congressional history - and made it worse. They took a bill that was written in secret and jammed through the Transportation Committee and inserted unrelated and controversial provisions like the Keystone pipeline, ANWR, offshore drilling and cuts in federal pensions. Even worse, they changed the rules in the middle of the game. Specifically, after everyone had submitted their amendments to the original single bill, Speaker Boehner decided to split it into three separate measures which meant that many of the amendments couldn't be considered in the way they were originally drafted. Of course, the Republicans quickly realized that they didn't have the votes for that bill and yanked it from the floor. It must have been pretty embarrassing because it's been over a month since they gave up on that bill. And what has the Republican leadership been doing over the last month? Negotiating with House Democrats to reach a bipartisan compromise? Talking with the Senate on ways to properly reauthorize these programs and bring jobs back to the economy? Of course not. Over the past month the Republican leadership has been sitting around pointing fingers and complaining that they can't move a transportation bill even though Republicans are in control of this House. It's the end of March and Republicans can't get their act together to get a real transportation bill passed. You call this leadership? Give me a break. Leadership is about governing. Leadership is about doing what's right. Honestly, M. Speaker, there's no leadership here. Shame on Republican leadership for bringing us here. Shame on the Republican leadership for putting American jobs on the line just because they cannot manage their own internal politics. That's right; by refusing to pass the Senate bill today, Republicans are putting American jobs on the line. With the economy slowly recovering and with more than 2.7 million construction and manufacturing workers still out of work, why do Republicans want to play Russian roulette with this important jobs bill? We should not be in this position today. This is a manufactured crisis; a crisis that is a product of a lack of leadership. A crisis that is a product of a lack of bipartisan cooperation. M. Speaker, we had an opportunity to consider the Senate bill today but the Rules Committee - mislabeled by some as the most open rules committee in decades - blocked that bill from consideration. That's right, this new majority put this bill on the floor sight unseen and without any mark up or hearing. They waived their own 3-day layover rule and this is a closed rule. In fact, I can't even seem to find a CBO score for this bill! And this is the open process my colleagues on the Rules Committee are so proud of? I offered the Senate bill as an amendment to this rule last night. Not in place of the Republican bill, but as a stand-alone amendment. Speaker Boehner is fond of saying let the House work its will, but apparently the Republicans on the Rules Committee don't believe in that philosophy because they blocked my amendment on a party line vote. And why did they block my amendment? As Chairman Dreier is fond of saying, because they could. Now, I will try one more time today to offer the Senate amendment. Congressman Tim Bishop introduced H.R. 14, the exact same language as the Senate-passed bill. If this House defeats the Previous Question, Congressman Bishop will be able to offer his amendment to this Republican bill. Not in place of, just alongside the Republican bill. The House, like Speaker Boehner promised, would be able to work its will. It's clear, M. Speaker, that the Republican leadership is more concerned with political victories than with legislating. It's clear that the Republican leadership would rather score cheap political points with their right wing base than promote and create jobs in America. President Clinton was fond of saying the perfect can't be the enemy of the good. There's a perfectly good, bipartisan Senate bill that would pass this House overwhelmingly, if the Republican leadership decided to bring it up. But no. The Republican leadership would rather play chicken with people's jobs on the line instead of actually legislating, let alone legislating in a bipartisan way. It's clear that when the far right wing of the far right wing opposes something, the Republican leadership crumbles like cheap asphalt. I reserve the balance of my time.
03.26.2012	The following letter was sent to President Obama ahead of his bilateral meetings in South Korea this week. March 23, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: Your upcoming meeting with President Hu during the Nuclear Security Summit in Seoul offers a unique opportunity to work with China to address the ongoing atrocities being committed against civilians in Sudan. As a humanitarian disaster in the Sudanese states of South Kordofan and Blue Nile unfolds due to the government of Sudan's denial of international humanitarian access and indiscriminate aerial bombardment of civilians, there is an urgent need to work in a concerted way with those like China who have influence with the government of Sudan. In particular, I urge you to encourage President Hu and his government to engage consistently, at the highest levels, and in close coordination with the United States, on issues related to the humanitarian crisis and ongoing violence in South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, as well as on all outstanding issues currently under negotiation between Khartoum and Juba. As you are aware, the situation in Sudan has escalated significantly, resulting in devastating consequences for an increasing number of civilians. Hundreds of thousands of people in South Kordofan and Blue Nile are at risk of starvation because the Sudanese government is blocking food and humanitarian aid. While China has been increasingly involved in oil negotiations, they must also utilize their influence with the Sudanese government to end attacks against civilians and support humanitarian access for aid organizations and United Nations agencies. I hope that during and following your meeting with President Hu, the United States and China will work together and lead the U.N. Security Council to maintain that spotlight towards ensuring an end to atrocities being committed in South Kordofan, Blue Nile and Darfur, as well as the negotiation of key post-independence arrangements, including transitional financial arrangements - inclusive of oil-related issues - border management, and the Abyei Area. The positive engagement of China will be as critical as the ongoing involvement of the United States to the future of Sudan and South Sudan. Given its strong economic ties, China holds great diplomatic leverage when it comes to Sudan and, for China, supporting the establishment of long-term peace must be seen as critical to their economic interests. Recent reports by Amnesty International and by the U.N. Panel of Experts on Sudan included evidence of Chinese made arms used in Sudan. While China's arms agreement with Khartoum indicated that weapons provided to the government are not permitted to be used in Darfur that is clearly still happening. Therefore, the United States should encourage China to definitively stop its sale of weapons to the government of Sudan. I appreciate the commitment your Administration has made towards promoting peace in Sudan and encourage the United States to maintain its high level of involvement with international partners to end atrocities against civilians. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
03.26.2012	Rep. Bill Keating has spearheaded a letter to the Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, in a continued effort to save over 100 jobs at Otis Air National Guard Base (Otis). The letter, which was sent on Friday evening, was signed onto by the entire Massachu share: f t KEATING, DELEGATION FIGHT FOR 141 JOBS AT OTIS Rep. Bill Keating has spearheaded a letter to the Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, in a continued effort to save over 100 jobs at Otis Air National Guard Base (Otis). The letter, which was sent on Friday evening, was signed onto by the entire Massachusetts delegation, including both Senators and the dean of the House delegation, Rep. Ed Markey. On March 6, 2012, the United States Air Force announced that Otis would be losing over 141 jobs as part of its FY2013 budget. Those 141 positions make up the entirety of the 102nd Air Operation Group (AOG) at Otis. The delegation's argument focuses on the unique partnership between the AOG and the 608 Air Operations Center at Barksdale Air Force Base, which together make up an integral part of the Air Force Global Strike Command. The elimination of the AOG could have serious implications for our national security and intelligence gathering capabilities. The March 23rd letter is the second one Rep. Keating, who is Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee's Oversight, Investigations and Management Subcommittee, has spearheaded on this issue. A copy of the letter is attached.
03.21.2012	James P. McGovern (MA) 5-Minute Special Order Wednesday, March 21, 2012 SUDAN: STOP USING FOOD AS A WEAPON OF MASS STARVATION M. Speaker - In about six weeks, the rainy season will begin in Sudan. Villagers will no longer be able to plant or harvest their crops. The roads will become impassible. It is the time of the year when people live off their harvests, their orchards and the land. But there is no food in the states of South Kordofan and Blue Nile inside Sudan. Not because of drought. Not because locusts have destroyed the crops. No, Mr. Speaker, this is a deliberate, man-made catastrophe created by Sudanese President Bashir. For months, Khartoum has been launching rockets and dropping bombs on villages and fields throughout South Kordofan and Blue Nile. The people of the Nuba Mountains, primarily of black African descent, cannot work their fields for fear of being bombed. They hide in caves as bombers and helicopters fly overhead. Rockets bombard their villages. Sudanese soldiers march into their villages - killing, raping, setting fire to their homes - carrying out a -scorched earth- policy. The people of South Kordofan and Blue Nile are already suffering from malnutrition and a severe shortage of food. Thousands are fleeing south, crossing into the newly-independent nation of South Sudan, setting up refugee camps along the northern borders. Mainly women and children, they arrive traumatized, exhausted and malnourished. President Bashir has denied humanitarian access to South Kordofan and Blue Nile for the delivery of desperately-needed food aid. He wants no witnesses to his deliberate use of mass starvation as a weapon against his own people. And the clock is ticking, M. Speaker, because the rainy season is coming soon - and then no one will be able to get food into these areas. But the bombs will continue to fall from the sky. Take a look at these photographs. The first one is a remarkable satellite image of villages being bombed in South Kordofan. You see the Antonov bomber flying north, back towards the Sudanese military airbase. You also see smoke plumes rising up from civilian villages. Fields and orchards being bombed. These are not military targets. There's not even a truck or a pickup that might be used for military purposes. Just village huts, orchards, and fields. Antonovs don't do precision bombing, M. Speaker. They just open up the back bay of the airplane and roll out barrels of explosives. This is an image, M. Speaker, of the indiscriminate bombing of civilians. This is a war crime. It took place on March 8th. And here are the targets of the bombs and rockets: Children, M. Speaker, hiding and starving in caves. This photo [of the children in caves] was taken by John Prendergast of the Enough Project and George Clooney, who were in South Kordofan on March 8th. They saw the planes, and rockets striking villages. The satellite picture is from the Satellite Sentinel Project, set up by Mr. Clooney and DigitalGlobe, which has donated millions of dollars of imagery from its satellites in an effort to provide an early warning system for human security in this region of Sudan. Last Friday, I stood on the steps of the Sudanese embassy with George Clooney and my House colleagues, Congressmen John Olver, Jim Moran and Al Green. We were all arrested protesting the humanitarian crisis in Sudan. We were joined by: George's father and journalist Nick Clooney; John Prendergast of the Enough Project; Tom Andrews with United to End Genocide; Martin Luther King III; Ben Jealous, President of the NAACP; Nicole Lee, President of TransAfrica Forum; Faye Williams, Chair of the National Congress of Black Women; Activist Dick Gregory; Rabbis David Saperstein and Steve Gutow; Fred Kramer with Jewish World Watch; and Ian Schwab with American Jewish World Service. We had a simple message: Let food and humanitarian aid reach the suffering people of South Kordofan and Blue Nile. Stop raping, killing, bombing and starving innocent women, children and men. I commend the Obama Administration for pressuring Khartoum to let food reach these desperate people. But more must be done.I urge the President to engage China, at the very highest levels, to also demand unfettered access for humanitarian aid. M. Speaker - the world must increase the pressure on President Bashir - or watch another crime against humanity take place in Sudan. We must not be silent.
03.19.2012	George Clooney, President of United to End Genocide and former Congressman Tom Andrews, Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA), Al Green (D-TX), Jim Moran (D-VA) and John Olver (D-MA), Martin Luther King III, NAACP President Ben Jealous, Enough Project Co-Founde share: f t GEORGE CLOONEY, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, HUMAN RIGHTS AND FAITH LEADERS ARRESTED PROTESTING AT SUDANESE EMBASSY Sudanese President's Food & Aid Blockade Threatens 500,000 Lives George Clooney, President of United to End Genocide and former Congressman Tom Andrews, Congressmen Jim McGovern (D-MA), Al Green (D-TX), Jim Moran (D-VA) and John Olver (D-MA), Martin Luther King III, NAACP President Ben Jealous, Enough Project Co-Founder John Prendergast, and other human rights and faith leaders were arrested today for civil disobedience outside of the Sudanese Embassy while protesting the escalating humanitarian emergency in Sudan that threatens the lives of 500,000 people. These leaders demanded that Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir immediately end the blockade that is preventing food and humanitarian aid from reaching the people of Sudan's Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile regions. Bashir's forces created the dire food shortage in the region—predicted by USAID to reach near-famine levels this month—by bombing fields and preventing villagers from planting crops in July and August last year. After speaking on the steps of the embassy to hundreds of activists, members of Congress and activist leaders were asked by police to leave the scene. When the protest continued, officers arrested those who would not comply. Additional participants arrested in the civil disobedience included Nick Clooney, Jewish Council for Public Affairs President Rabbi Steve Gutow, Religious Action Center for Reform Judaism Director Rabbi David Saperstein, Jewish World Watch Executive Director Fred Kramer, and American Jewish World Service Associate Director of Policy Ian Schwab. Bishop Andudu Adam Elnail, a Nuban leader from South Kordofan, Sudan addressed the crowd at the embassy, along with Darfuri activist and United to End Genocide Director of Global Partnerships Niemat Ahmadi, and Sudanese activist for Darfur and Enough Project Senior Advisor Omer Ismail. Dr. Richard Land, President of The Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, and TransAfrica Forum President Nicole Lee also spoke. -We are protesting to make sure the Sudanese government knows that the world is watching,- states Congressman Jim McGovern. -The United States Congress is watching. And we will be back again and again until they stop using food as a weapon; stop slaughtering innocent men, women and children; and stop spitting in the face of the world community.- John Prendergast, co-founder of the Enough Project, says: -George Clooney and I just returned from the Nuba Mountains, where the Sudan government regularly bombs civilians and blocks humanitarian aid to the war-torn regions along the border with South Sudan. It is urgent that the Khartoum government allow aid access. More broadly, the window is now open for a comprehensive political settlement on all the issues that divide Sudan and South Sudan, and the U.S. is playing an important role in supporting that effort.- -It is unacceptable and inexcusable that Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir—an internationally criminal wanted for war crimes and genocide—is getting away with bombing, starving and displacing hundreds of thousands of innocent men, women and children in Sudan's Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile State,- says United to End Genocide President Tom Andrews. -We need to hear the outrage from President Obama and see robust international leadership. The United States should immediately do everything in its power to get food to the region before people starve and increase sanctions on Bashir and his forces.- -We should not allow the tragedy of Darfur to be repeated. Hundreds of thousands of people died before the international community and United States took action. The question for the people in the Nuba Mountains and Blue Nile is will the U.S. government act now, or will the response be too little, too late,- states United to End Genocide Director of Global Partnerships Niemat Ahmadi who is originally from Darfur, Sudan. ### The Save Darfur Coalition and Genocide Intervention Network are now United to End Genocide. The organization remains committed to its work to end the crisis in Darfur and bring peace to all of Sudan as well as to end violence in other areas of mass atrocities. United to End Genocide is building the largest activist organization in America dedicated to ending genocide and mass atrocities worldwide, with a membership base of hundreds of thousands of committed activists, an unparalleled nationwide student movement, more than 190 faith-based, advocacy and human rights partner organizations, and a network of institutional investors collectively representing more than $3 trillion in assets under management.
03.13.2012	Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today introduced a Congressional resolution (H.Res. 583) spotlighting the atrocities of Joseph Kony and the Lord's Resistance Army and supporting U.S. efforts to counter the LRA. share: f t Reps. McGovern, Royce Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Spotlighting Joseph Kony and the Lord's Resistance Army H.Res. 583 Builds-off Unprecedented Publicity Push Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA) today introduced a Congressional resolution (H.Res. 583) spotlighting the atrocities of Joseph Kony and the Lord's Resistance Army and supporting U.S. efforts to counter the LRA. "There is increased attention on the terror inflicted upon innocent people by the LRA - and that's a good thing. I am hopeful that we can use this momentum as a force for change. We must do all that we can to protect innocent civilians -- especially children -- and end LRA violence once and for all. We made important strides with our legislation in the last Congress, but our work must continue," said Rep. Jim McGovern. "Last week, an unprecedented Internet campaign brought the attention of tens of millions of Americans to the atrocities the LRA is committing. This resolution builds on past legislation and the current campaign by giving an added focus to these atrocities on children and efforts to stop them," said Royce. Last Congress, Reps. McGovern and Royce introduced the House version of the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act, which passed the House with wide support and was signed into law. This legislation, which made it the policy of the United States -to apprehend or remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the battlefield,- resulted in unprecedented actions, including the deployment of a small team of U.S. military advisors. Despite these stepped-up efforts, Joseph Kony and his top commanders remain at large. The LRA's mutilating, abducting, and forcing individuals into sexual servitude continues. Throughout the group's history, it is estimated to have forcibly conscripted 66,000 youths. The McGovern-Royce resolution condemns the LRA's atrocities and welcomes the steps taken to date. Importantly, it calls for stepped-up efforts to expand the number of regional forces deployed to protect civilians and pursue LRA commanders, while increasing cross-border coordination among regional governments. The resolution also calls for increased efforts to enhance the mobility and logistical capabilities of partner forces, while expanding access to telecommunications infrastructure to aid early warning efforts. The full text of the resolution can be found here. Rep. Jim McGovern is the Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. Rep. Ed Royce is a senior member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a former Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa.
03.08.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today introduced the "Sudan Peace, Security, and Accountability Act of 2012." The bill, H.R. 4169, would create a truly comprehensive strategy for ending serious human rights violations, promoting democratic reform, and est share: f t For Immediate Release March 8, 2012 U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN INTRODUCES NEW LEGISLATION ON SUDAN U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today introduced the -Sudan Peace, Security, and Accountability Act of 2012.- The bill, H.R. 4169, would create a truly comprehensive strategy for ending serious human rights violations, promoting democratic reform, and establishing lasting peace in Sudan. Attached are a PDF and a one-page summary of H.R. 4169. Original cosponsors include Reps. Frank Wolf (R-VA), Mike Capuano (D-MA), Brad Miller (D-NC), Barbara Lee (D-CA), John Olver (D-MA) and Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-TX). Congressman McGovern's floor speech from yesterday are below: PDF and a one-page summary of H.R. 4169 are attached below:
03.08.2012	Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Ranking Member on the Labor, Health, and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee and James McGovern (MA-3), co-Chair of the Hunger Caucus in the House of Representatives, responded to the allegations of fraud in the share: f t DELAURO, MCGOVERN RECOGNIZE CRITICAL ROLE OF FOOD STAMP PROGRAM Reaffirm Integrity of SNAP Program Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Ranking Member on the Labor, Health, and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee and James McGovern (MA-3), co-Chair of the Hunger Caucus in the House of Representatives, responded to the allegations of fraud in the Food Stamp Program, or Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) made today by House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrel Issa. In his testimony before the committee, Kevin Concannon, Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services at the USDA, detailed the new range of aggressive tactics the agency is taking to prevent fraud. He explained that USDA takes has reduced the SNAP trafficking rate from 4 cents on the dollar in 1993 to about 1 cent in 2006-2008. USDA reviewed over 15,000 stores in FY2011. This is one of the lowest fraud rates for federal programs; in fact, the improper payment rates for some farm programs are much higher. USDA has permanently disqualified more than 45,000 individual retailers from participating in the program. -The fact of the matter is that the food stamp program is a vital anti-hunger program that works, and it has an incredibly low fraud rate. Let me be clear that no fraud is acceptable. However, I wonder why a program with a low fraud rate that makes a difference for millions of poor families every day is the one the Committee decided to focus on. This is yet another attempt by the House majority party to discredit the food stamp program with the intention of casting this valuable, efficient program and the people who depend on it in a negative light,- said Congresswoman DeLauro. -These attacks ignore the years of Republican economic policies that crashed the economy, massive tax cuts, and costs of two wars. More Americans enrolled in food stamps under President Bush, and with surging unemployment in the months before President Obama took office, people continued to turn to safety net programs like food stamps to get by during the recession.- -Another day, another Republican assault on low-income families. The SNAP program serves as a lifeline for millions of Americans, especially children,- said Congressman McGovern. -While we should always be on the lookout for ways to improve the program, I wish my Republican colleagues would spend half as much time looking for waste and fraud in the Pentagon budget as they do targeting programs that help the most vulnerable among us.- ###
03.08.2012	Today, U.S. Congressman David Cicilline (D-RI), the House sponsor of legislation to establish a National Historical Park in the Blackstone River Valley, along with co-sponsors Richard E. Neal (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), and James Langevin (D-RI), thank share: f t Blackstone Valley Delegation Applauds Department of Interior Action Toward Designation of New National Park Unit Today, U.S. Congressman David Cicilline (D-RI), the House sponsor of legislation to establish a National Historical Park in the Blackstone River Valley, along with co-sponsors Richard E. Neal (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), and James Langevin (D-RI), thanked the Secretary of the Department of the Interior, Ken Salazar, for officially transmitting the Blackstone River Valley Special Resource Study to Congress. -This action represents the culmination of more than five years of evaluation, research, public input, and review, and we applaud Secretary Salazar and the Department of Interior for taking this important step toward including the Blackstone River Valley in the National Parks System,- said Cicilline. -I am proud to continue fighting to preserve the environmental, historical, and economic importance of this region - the birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution - an undertaking that will help create jobs, promote local economies, and ensure that this area remains accessible to future generations.- "I believe Secretary Salazar's actions last week helped improve our efforts to create a new National Park in the Blackstone River Valley. During a visit to Lookout Rock last October, I pledged my support for this important bi-partisan initiative. The region is a historic and special place that deserves this critical recognition. I will continue to work with Congressman Cicilline to ensure that a National Historic Park is created within the corridor's boundaries," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. -This is good news for our efforts to get the Blackstone Valley the recognition it deserves,- Rep. McGovern said. -I want to thank Secretary Salazar for his work on this issue, and I commend my colleague Congressman Cicilline for his leadership.- "Secretary Salazar's letter sets an important blueprint to guide the establishment of a national park in the Blackstone Valley and to gain the cultural, economic and environmental benefits that this designation will bring to our state and region," said Langevin. "This is a vital part of the process to reach our ultimate goals of preserving historical sites that shaped our nation and encouraging more Americans from across the country to visit the area." In a letter sent last week to Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA), the Ranking Minority Member on the House Committee on National Resources, Secretary Salazar identified the most effective and efficient management option for establishing and operating a Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park. Following the official transmittal of the Special Resource Study to Congress, Representatives Cicilline, Neal, McGovern, and Langevin requested a legislative hearing on H.R. 3191 and will continue their efforts to advance the Act through the House of Representatives. Spanning from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI, the Blackstone River Valley is the Birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution. The Valley's beauty and history embodies a landscape rich in natural, historic, and cultural treasures. If enacted, the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park Establishment Act would help preserve these icons of industry, environment, and history for generations to come. Established by Congress in November 1986, the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor now includes all or part of twenty-four communities extending from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI. The Corridor contains approximately 400,000 acres of land in total. In July of this year, the National Park Service released a Special Resource Study for the purpose of determining whether the resources evaluated in the Heritage Corridor meet the criteria for inclusion as a unit of the National Park System. The study was completed following extensive input from local stakeholders, the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Commission, National Park Service staff, and historians. Companion legislation has also been introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), John Kerry (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Scott Brown (R-MA).
03.07.2012	THE SUDAN PEACE, SECURITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2012 M. Speaker, just yesterday, the former top U.N. humanitarian official in Sudan - Mukesh Kapila - issued a warning to the world. He said that the Government of Sudan's military is carrying out crimes against humanity in the country's southern Nuba Mountains, in the Sudanese state of South Kordofan. He said that these acts remind him of Darfur. Kapila said he saw military planes striking villagers, the destruction of food stocks and -literally a scorched earth policy.- He said the attacks reminded him of what he witnessed in Sudan's Darfur region in 2003 and 2004, when the predominantly Arab government in Khartoum targeted black tribes. Kapila served as the U.N.'s top humanitarian official in Sudan at the time. He said that the world must act now to prevent another Darfur-type situation in the Nuba Mountains. M. Speaker, the people of South Kordofan and Blue Nile, two states inside Sudan along its southern border, are facing a hunger crisis. They haven't been able to plant because the government of President Bashir is bombing them in their fields. Sudan has refused to let humanitarian aid into the region. The United States, the United Nations and other governments have condemned these attacks against civilians. My good friend and colleague, Congressman Frank Wolf, traveled to this border region at the end of February. He interviewed refugees and recorded their stories of terror, bombing from the skies and soldiers burning villages and shooting defenseless civilians. Mothers fleeing for their lives with their children, abandoning their homes. I urge my colleagues to go to the web site of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission and watch the video he has posted there. That's at www.tlhrc.house.gov. We need to speak out, M. Speaker. We need to let our government and the world know that people care and that we demand protection for these people from Khartoum's murderous policies. This is why I and my colleagues, Congressmen Frank Wolf and Mike Capuano, are introducing today the Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act. This bill calls for a comprehensive approach towards Sudan to address and end the massive human rights violations that are taking place across that country. No longer should we allow President Bashir to blackmail the international community by threatening humanitarian workers in Darfur if the world tries to reach the desperate people in the Nuba Mountains with food and relief supplies. We need a comprehensive strategy and comprehensive sanctions against Khartoum if the violations continue. We need to let other countries know that if they welcome and provide comfort to President Bashir and other members of his government who have been indicted for crimes against humanity, including genocide, that they, too, will face sanctions. We need to provide the Obama Administration with all the tools and all the authority it needs to seek a comprehensive peace in Sudan, end human rights violations, and bring those guilty of crimes against humanity to justice. For decades the powers that be in Khartoum have toyed with the international community, while its own people pay the price over and over again. It has to stop, M. Speaker; it simply has to stop. Let me end, M. Speaker, with a few other remarks. No one can come to the House floor today and speak about Sudan and protecting the people of Sudan from their murderous government without paying tribute to our dear colleague Donald Payne. Congressman Payne passed away yesterday from cancer. He would have been an original cosponsor of the bill I'm introducing today. No one fought harder for human rights in Sudan. He was among the very first to call attention to the genocide taking place in Darfur. He traveled there, often alone, with just one or two aides, to talk to refugees inside Darfur and in camps along the border, and to stand witness to their suffering. He was tireless in his commitment to the people of Africa and their well-being. We all looked to him for leadership, for advice and for help. He extended this same commitment to the people of African descent in our own hemisphere. I personally know how much he did to promote the rights of Afro-Colombians and to protect their leaders and communities. We will miss his leadership in this House - but most of all, we will miss him. M. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to insert additional materials into the Record, and I yield back the balance of my time. Insert for the Congressional Record: Summary of Legislation: Sudan Peace, Security and Accountability Act of 2012 -Sudan: Former UN Official Warns of Nuba Mts Crisis,- Associated Press, March 6, 2012
03.06.2012	U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN CALLS FOR POLITICAL REFORM AND REJECTION OF VIOLENCE IN BAHRAIN As the Bahraini opposition plans a major demonstration for this Friday, Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) called on the Bahraini government to allow Bahrainis to gather peaceably and express their political views. He urged both the Bahraini government and the Bahraini opposition to reject the use of violence. More than three months have now passed since the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (or Bassiouni Commission) issued a report cataloguing abuses by the Bahraini government and recommending important reforms. While the Bahraini government has taken some limited steps toward reform, Congressman McGovern expressed disappointment that it has not made the most critical changes recommended by the Bassiouni Commission. These necessary reforms include releasing all detainees who have only engaged in peaceful political expression; establishing independent mechanisms for overseeing all detentions, investigating all allegations of torture, and holding accountable civilian and military officials who committed abuses; and reforming the judiciary to ensure that all future trials are fair and follow international standards of due process. Congressman McGovern urged the Bahraini government to seize the moment to fully implement these - and all other Bassiouni Commission proposals - without delay.
02.29.2012	James P. McGovern (MA) 5-Minute Special Order Wednesday, February 29, 2012 TOO SILENT ON SUDAN M. Speaker, once again, the world is standing by, silent and passive, while the Government of Sudan wages war on its own people. We have been here before, M. Speaker, when hundreds of thousands of people perished in Darfur before the international community finally woke up and took action to try and protect innocent civilians from their own government's brutality. The humanitarian crisis continues in Darfur. There is no peace, and villagers, refugees and humanitarian personnel still live and work under constant peril of attack. President Bashir has expelled many humanitarian workers from Darfur - and even today threatens to shut down their life-saving operations. Last May we witnessed the ruthless ethnic cleansing of Abyei by the Sudanese military. More than 100,000 people of the Dinka indigenous population were forcibly displaced. They fled to South Sudan, seeking safe haven, where they remain today, in very poor conditions. When Sudanese President Bashir saw that the world was indifferent to this brutal assault, he began military operations in June against insurgents in South Kordofan and more generally against the Nuba people. And still the world stood silent. So, in September, Khartoum launched attacks on another border region. This time, the state of Blue Nile was under siege, with attacks by the Sudanese Army and bombings of civilians. Thousands fled to the neighboring countries of Ethiopia and South Sudan for safety, joining the desperate refugees from South Kordofan. And so Sudan has undertaken a bloodbath against its own people in the states of South Kordofan and Blue Nile. House-to-house arrests and killings. Rape. The merciless bombings of civilians. For nearly eight months, Khartoum has blocked all humanitarian aid to South Kordofan and Blue Nile. And it has not only continued to bomb civilians in those states, it has crossed the border and bombed refugee camps and towns inside South Sudan where tens of thousands had hoped to find food and shelter. Here are photos of some of the people in refugee camps in south Sudan. Saleh Kora is from the Angolo tribe in South Kordofan. The government dropped bombs on her fields when she was trying to plant. And then the government dropped six bombs on her village. She grabbed her children and hid in a nearby ditch. After the bombing stopped, Sudanese soldiers moved into the village and burned several homes. When they began shooting people, Saleh ran and hid with her children. The soldiers didn't care if you were an unarmed civilian, a woman or a child. She fled with her children across the border in January to the Yida refugee camp in South Sudan. This woman and her little girl are from the Nuba Mountains. She is married to a man who fled the nightmare of Darfur in 2005. Both were suffering from malnutrition when they arrived at the refugee camps. The people of South Kordofan and Blue Nile are being subjected to bombing, murder, rape, scorched earth and starvation. This should come as no surprise when Ahmed Haroun, the Sudanese official wanted by the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity in Darfur, is now the governor of South Kordofan. We are fast approaching the month of March, the point at which the Famine Early Warning Systems Network - or FEWS Net - has predicted that South Kordofan and Blue Nile will reach emergency levels of food insecurity. This is just one level short of all-out famine. And yet Khartoum still denies food and medical relief to the suffering people of these regions. Last week, the U.N. Security Council called on the Sudanese government and the armed rebels to allow unhindered access for humanitarian aid and for both sides to return to talks and cease hostilities. President Bashir said -no.- The United States and the international community - including China, Russia and others - must increase the pressure on Sudan to allow the delivery of aid to the suffering people of South Kordofan and Blue Nile and to reach agreement on a ceasefire. The safety and security of the Sudanese people - whether in Darfur, Abyei, South Kordofan, Blue Nile or elsewhere - must be our first priority. We've been silent too long. {Insert for the Congressional Record: -In Sudan, Seeing Echoes of Darfur,- by Nicholas D. Kristof, New York Times, February 15, 2012}
02.23.2012	SNAP IS A BIPARTISAN-SUPPORTED PROGRAM Dear Colleague, Yesterday, our colleague Rep. Luis Gutierrez delivered a five-minute statement on SNAP. During his time on the floor, Rep. Gutierrez pointed out the importance of SNAP, the way it is touching people's lives, and - most importantly - that SNAP has enjoyed bipartisan support over the past decades. An interesting fact that Rep. Gutierrez points out is that President George W. Bush oversaw one of the biggest, and most deserving, expansions of SNAP. The text of Rep. Gutierrez' comments are included in this Dear Colleague and you can watch his statement here http://youtu.be/-AnuDkXlX0o. It's time we take the politics out of hunger and, instead, work together to end this scourge once and for all. As my previous Dear Colleagues have pointed out, SNAP is a true safety-net program that is among the most efficient and effective federal programs. It's a tool designed to prevent families from going without food, not a weapon to be used in a political campaign and I hope Members will refrain from disparaging this important, efficient, and effective program during this highly charged campaign season. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.23.2012	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern signed onto a letter today urging an extension of Unemployment Insurance benefits. A full copy of the letter is attached below.
02.23.2012	Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairmen Condemn Massive Human Rights Abuses by the Syrian Government and Call on the United Nations to Place Strong Pressure on the Assad Regime to Stop the Violence Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairmen James P. McGovern (D-MA) and Frank R. Wolf (R-VA) today strongly condemned the Syrian government for continuing to commit massive human rights abuses against its citizens. The co-chairmen also urged the United Nations Security Council to demand that President Bashar al-Assad's regime cease perpetrating violence against peaceful protesters and respect the fundamental rights of the Syrian people. Since the outbreak of peaceful protests in Syria in March 2011, the Syrian government has used brutal methods to prevent the Syrian people from assembling and expressing their political views. The United Nations estimates that more than 5,400 civilians have died in Syria from violence over the past 11 months—and the vast majority of these killings have been carried out by government security forces. The United States, the Arab League and most of the international community agree that the world should take action to oppose the Assad regime's reprehensible treatment of its people. A strong UN Security Council Resolution expressing this widely shared international consensus would send a powerful message that the Syrian government must respect basic human rights. In particular, the Security Council should insist that the Syrian government release the thousands of protesters it has detained, withdraw its military forces from civilian areas and allow peaceful demonstrations. In addition, the Security Council should make it clear that all countries should refuse to provide arms to the Syrian government. -It is essential that the international community stand up for the basic rights of the Syrian people,- said Congressman McGovern. -The UN Security Council must take action now, before thousands more Syrians are killed.- -It is time for the international community to take action and call Assad to account for his brutal repression of his own people,- said Congressman Wolf. -The UN Security Council should condemn this cruelty and support the Syrian people in their quest for basic human rights.- The mission of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission is to promote and advocate human rights in a nonpartisan manner both inside and outside of Congress.
02.17.2012	87 House Members Commend Early Combat Withdrawal from Afghanistan Washington, D.C. . . . Eighty seven Members of Congress, including nine Republicans, sent a letter today to President Obama praising the administration's decision to bring home all combat troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2013. On February 1, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta announced that the United States will end its combat missions in Afghanistan by -mid- to the latter part of 2013.- This step was pressed for in amendments offered last year in the Senate by Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and in the House by Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Walter Jones (R-NC). This bi-partisan group of 87, at a time of few bi-partisan assemblages, wrote: -We write to express our support for the Administration's announcement on February 1st that the United States will complete combat operations in Afghanistan by the end of next year.- John Isaacs, executive director of Council for a Livable World, congratulated McGovern and Jones and four other lead sponsors for their effort: -This letter and this announcement mark a major milestone in ending what has been an endless war in Afghanistan at the cost of so many lives and so much treasure.- Continued Isaacs:-While Council for a Livable World and many Members would support an even more rapid withdrawal of all troops from Afghanistan, it is vital that just as the U.S. has withdrawn militarily from Iraq, we should also withdraw militarily from Afghanistan.-. A recent ABC News/Washington Post poll taken February 1 - 4 showed that 78% of the public supports the Administration's drawdown of troops, including 64% of Republicans. A copy of the letter is attached.
02.16.2012	For Immediate Release Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA) denounced the Bahraini government's use of force to prevent Bahrainis from assembling yesterday in commemoration of the one-year anniversary of the outbreak of major demonstrations in Bahrain. Bahraini security forces yesterday used tear gas, armored personnel carriers, and other forceful means to block Bahrainis from gathering in public spaces and expressing their political views. These actions are inconsistent with the fundamental human rights to assemble peaceably and express one's views. Congressman McGovern also expressed disappointment at the use of violence by some protesters. Such uses of violence take attention away from the peaceful actions of most demonstrators and give security forces an excuse to act even more harshly. Congressman McGovern urged the Bahraini government to now make substantial and lasting reforms to allow greater freedom and rectify human rights abuses in Bahrain. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry issued its final report three months ago. The Bahraini government should fully implement all of the commission's recommendations without delay. -Rather than continuing to block and punish peaceful political expression, the Bahraini government should act immediately to end human rights abuses and give greater voice to all of Bahrain's citizens,- said Congressman McGovern. -Bahrain will be a stronger country when the rights of all of its citizens are fully respected.- Congressman McGovern is Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.
02.14.2012	February 14, 2012 The Honorable David Dreier Chairman Committee on Rules H-312, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Dreier: We are writing today to express our deep concern over the manner in which you have chosen to consider HR 7 - the American Energy and Infrastructure Jobs Act of 2012. From the beginning, the process employed by Republican leadership in developing and advancing this legislation has been devoid of the collaborative, bipartisan spirit which was previously the standard for transportation legislation. The result is a 1000 page amalgam which cobbled together arbitrary and unrelated measures, some of which have never been considered by any House Committee. In the words of Transportation Secretary and former Republican Congressman Ray LaHood, "This is the most partisan transportation bill that I have ever seen…It's the worst transportation bill I've ever seen during 35 years of public service.- This morning, we received notification that the Rules Majority plans to make an already bad situation worse by splitting up this legislation into three random bills. At best, this is a thinly veiled attempt to force through bad legislation that many of your own Members do not support. At worst, this new approach is in direct violation of your own leadership's stated commitment to transparency and undermines the integrity of the legislative process for the sake of political expediency. Members have submitted, in good faith, almost 300 amendments to the original 1000-page measure. This last minute change causes confusion and makes the absurd assumption that these Members would wish to offer the same amendment to a different bill that they have not even seen. This approach dramatically alters the playing field, well after the game has begun. This last minute misuse of emergency procedures speaks volumes about the flawed nature of the original legislation. It makes a mockery of the legislative process and is grossly unfair to Members who offered amendments based on your previous announcement. Since it is apparent that the only way this measure will pass is to blatantly manipulate and undermine the integrity of the legislative process, we are calling upon you to postpone today's meeting until we can agree upon a fair process for all Members. Sincerely, __________________________ __________________________ Louise M. Slaughter, NY James P. McGovern, MA Ranking Member __________________________ __________________________ Alcee L. Hastings, FL Jared Polis, CO
02.10.2012	Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA) today urged the Bahraini government to allow Bahrainis to assemble and express their political views on February 14 in commemoration of the one-year anniversary of the outbreak of major demonstrations in Bahrain. Congressman McGovern also urged the Bahraini security forces and Bahraini protesters to refrain from the use of violence on the anniversary. Violence by either side only serves to strengthen those opposed to genuine peace and reconciliation. -The rights to assemble peaceably and express political views are fundamental human rights,- said Congressman McGovern. -The Bahraini government should respect these critical rights, and all Bahrainis should reject the use of violence.- Congressman McGovern is Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.
02.08.2012	SNAP IS EFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT February 3, 2012 Dear Colleague, This is the third Dear Colleague in a series of educational materials designed to inform and educate Members of Congress and staff about SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps. Contrary to the political rhetoric being used by some, SNAP is a safety-net program that helps middle- and low-income individuals and families put food on their tables. In other words, it prevents hunger in America. The common misconception about SNAP, however, is that it is fraught with fraud, waste and abuse. Many have decried SNAP as a handout that can be sold or traded for alcohol and other items that shouldn't be purchased with taxpayer funds. It cannot. SNAP is both effective and efficient. In fact, the error rate for SNAP is not only at an all-time low; it is among the lowest - if not the lowest - error rate among any federal program. SNAP's payment error rate was 3.81% in 2010, the most recent data available. Diving deeper into this error rate, we see that only 3% of all SNAP benefits represented overpayments, meaning they either went to ineligible households or that eligible households received a higher benefit than they should have received. In fact, less than 2% of all SNAP benefits went to ineligible people. That means more than 98% of the benefits went to people who are eligible for the program. Compare this, for example, to the most recent IRS data that shows that the tax noncompliance rate was 16.9% in 2006, a noncompliance rate that represented a $385 billion loss. It's clear that SNAP is not only an effective program but that it is also an efficient one. It's also clear that SNAP is not the program its detractors try to portray. I encourage you to read the following report titled -SNAP Is Effective and Efficient- http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=3239. I will continue to circulate similar reports, fact sheets and news articles about SNAP and its role preventing hunger. I will continue to correct the misconceptions and misleading comments that are being perpetuated by those who don't know much about the program or are opposed to it. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.08.2012	THE FOOD STAMP PRESIDENT? February 6, 2012 Dear Colleague, Last week, I circulated three Dear Colleagues highlighting SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps. Unfortunately, SNAP and the people who use the program to put food on their kitchen tables are being used as political fodder in current presidential campaign. As I documented in my previous -Dear Colleagues,- SNAP is an effective and efficient program that has prevented millions of Americans from slipping into hunger and starvation. The criticism against anti-hunger programs like SNAP are not just bad form, they are flat out wrong. These falsehoods are damaging not just because of the hateful and hurtful rhetoric, these false statements actually poison the general public against these programs. People want to be self-sufficient. They want to be rich. They don't want to live paycheck to paycheck. They don't want to worry where their next meal comes from. And they don't want to rely on the charity of others to make ends meet. The reality, however, is that this assistance is necessary precisely because of the bad economy and both lost jobs and decreased wages over the recent years. I encourage you to read an analysis by Ezra Klein titled -Gingrich says Obama is the ‘food stamp president.' Is he?- http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/gingrich-says-obama-is-the-food-stamp-president-is-he/2012/01/18/gIQA1Ino8P_blog.html. In his analysis, Mr. Klein shows that SNAP participation increased significantly under both President Bush and President Obama. I do not dispute the fact that SNAP participation has increased under President Obama. However, I am concerned with the tenor of this debate and the implication that relying on SNAP is somehow a bad thing. As we continue to work on improving this economy, we must do everything we can to foster job creation and increases in wages so that families do not have to rely on this important safety net program. But we shouldn't demagogue the program or the people forced to rely on it simply for political gains. I hope you will read this analysis and lower the nasty tone of this debate. Words matter when discussing our anti-hunger programs. We should care about the poor and those who need assistance to put food on their tables. We shouldn't turn a blind eye to them nor should we disparage them or the programs that help them - especially when those programs are being operated at record rates of efficiency. This issue is too important to trivialize it for political gain. I will continue to circulate similar reports, fact sheets and news articles about SNAP and its role preventing hunger. I will continue to correct the misconceptions and misleading comments that are being perpetuated by those who don't know much about the program or are opposed to it. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.08.2012	FOOD STAMP FIGHT February 7, 2012 Dear Colleague, I write once again to circulate information on SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps. As you may know, SNAP has become a popular program to demagogue on the campaign trail. Over the past week, I have circulated several Dear Colleagues explaining the basics of how SNAP works and who is eligible. Included in these Dear Colleagues were reports, fact sheets, news articles, and blog posts that detailed why SNAP participation is high and why the program is both efficient and effective. I encourage you to read the attached Op-Ed from two professors that was recently published in the Los Angeles Times. Titled -Food Stamp Fight,- the authors explain why the current rhetoric is harmful and why President Obama should embrace the mantra of Food Stamp President, but not for the reasons you might think. They correctly point out that retailers - and the economy overall - benefits from SNAP, that SNAP funds spent at retailers like Wal-Mart, Target, grocery stores and corner markets are funds that are circulated through the economy. This isn't to say that we should encourage people to stay on SNAP. To the contrary, we must do everything we can to increase the amount of jobs available and the quality of these jobs so families can lift themselves out of poverty and off of SNAP. Without those economic opportunities, we need SNAP as a lifeline so that families don't have to make the awful choice between putting food on the table or paying the rent or utilities. I hope you will take time to read this important and informative Op-Ed http://www.latimes.com/news/opinion/commentary/la-oe-levenstein-food-stamps-20120206,0,3343518.story. I believe hunger is a political condition. We have the means to solve hunger in America once and for all, but we haven't mustered the political will to do so. Shame on us for not doing more to end this terrible scourge. But even more damaging is the hateful and hurtful rhetoric coming from the campaign trail on this subject. Republicans and Democrats - conservatives and liberals - should be able to come together on this issue. It may be difficult to agree on the best prescription for the problem, but there's no question we should be able to agree that the rhetoric being used today has no place in either the political or policy arenas. I hope this series of Dear Colleagues was informative and helpful for you and your staff. Please do not hesitate to contact me or Keith Stern on my staff if you have any questions or would like to work with me on this important issue. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.08.2012	AFGHANISTAN: AMERICA NEEDS THE TRUTH M. Speaker, Congress and the American people need to hear the truth about Afghanistan. It is impossible for us to make thoughtful, rational decisions on policy if we do not receive straight accurate information about the situation on the ground. And we have no right to keep our brave servicemen and women in harm's way, day after day, week after week, based on a steady diet of rosy statements that tell us everything is going well, progress is being made, conditions are improving, and victory is at hand. On January 18th, I had the privilege of sitting down with U.S. Army Lieutenant Colonel Daniel Davis for a special briefing on his assessment of the situation on the ground in Afghanistan. He had recently submitted reports, in both classified and unclassified versions, to his superiors at the Pentagon. I was joined at that briefing by my colleagues Congressman Walter Jones and John Garamendi, and we were not only impressed with Lt. Col. Davis's character, but the information and analysis he shared with us. Simply put, the situation in Afghanistan does not reflect the optimistic statements we repeatedly hear from high military officials and commanders on a regular basis. This week, a great deal of what Lt. Col. Davis told us has appeared in the media, in an article he wrote for the Armed Forces Journal, the nation's oldest independent military magazine, and in the New York Times. Lt. Col. Davis talks about the difficulties of training the Afghan police and military, the challenges facing our own troops to establish sustainable security zones, the rampant corruption, and the great discrepancy between the military's positive public statements and the classified material that contradicts such claims. The briefing with Danny Davis comes close on the heels of a number of articles that appeared towards the end of last year about the more pessimistic conclusions found in the most recent National Intelligence Estimate on Afghanistan. According to the press, the current NIE on Afghanistan recognizes that U.S. policy has not achieved the objectives outlined by the President - that instead it cast doubt on official assertions of progress made by the U.S. government and military leaders. No one likes to hear bad news, M. Speaker, but we do need to hear the unvarnished truth. We need accurate information in order to get a genuine understanding of what the situation is like on the ground in Afghanistan. We need to know the very real challenges faced by our troops and our diplomatic, development and humanitarian workers every day. As Lt. Col. Davis asserts, the amount of unclassified information available to the American public, the media and public officials continues to shrink. Ironically, one week before being briefed by Davis, Congressman Walter Jones and I sent a letter on January 12th to the President asking him to declassify and release the 2011 NIE on Afghanistan. We are still waiting for a response to that request. M. Speaker, the U.S. has spent hundreds of billions of dollars on military operations in Afghanistan. Over 5,500 Americans were wounded or killed in Afghanistan last year alone. Over the course of a decade, tens of thousands have come home. Many will carry for a lifetime the unseen scars of post-traumatic stress or traumatic brain injury. Like soldiers everywhere, they face a callous and unsympathetic battlefield. They do what is expected of them, and they do it with courage and determination. As my colleagues know, the majority of Americans want a safe and orderly withdrawal from Afghanistan as quickly as possible. I want every single one of our troops home and reunited with their families and loved ones. I want them to be able to leave safely and in a manner that generates confidence in what the next day will bring for Afghanistan and the region. On February 1st, the Administration announced that it will end U.S. combat operations in Afghanistan at the end of next year. This is welcome news. To ensure that timeline is met - and to ensure that our policies and priorities pave the way for a successful transition - we need to know now what the real conditions on the ground are. We can only do that with a clear-eyed, hard-eyed assessment of what's going on in Afghanistan. An unclassified version of Lt. Col. Davis's report can be found at www.afghanreport.com. I encourage all my House colleagues to read it. I encourage them to meet with Lt. Col. Davis for a briefing. I urge my House colleagues to ask the President to declassify the 2011 NIE on Afghanistan. And I ask the Pentagon public affairs office to stop stalling and formally approve the release of Lt. Col. Danny Davis's unclassified report. America needs and deserves the truth. Insert into the Record: January 12, 2012 letter from Reps. McGovern and Jones to President Obama on NIE -Truth, lies and Afghanistan,- by Lt. Col Daniel L. Davis, Armed Forces Journal, February 6, 2012 -Lieutenant Colonel Davis, Death and Deception in Afghanistan,- by Matthew Hoh, Huffington Post, February 6, 2012
02.08.2012	U.S. Representative James P. McGovern Statement on Rule for H.R. 3581 February 7, 2012 I thank the gentleman from Georgia for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself such time as I may consume. Let me begin by urging a no vote on this rule - which is not open - and a no vote on the underlying bill. The bill before us does nothing to improve the quality of life for any American. It doesn't create a single job. It is going nowhere in the United States Senate. In short, we're wasting out time. M. Speaker, I cannot stress this enough: Congress must keep our focus on the most important priority facing the American people -- and that's jobs. Jobs. Jobs. Jobs. Democrats may sound like a broken record, but that's because we know that the core issue of our time is the economy and jobs - we need to do more to make sure America's businesses get back on track and that the American people are in a position to succeed when these businesses start hiring. Now, we had some good news last week. The unemployment rate decreased for the fifth month in a row, falling to 8.3%. At the same time, we've had five straight months of job creation and we're in the 23rd consecutive month of private sector growth. The economy looks like its rebounding and, if this trend holds, that's a good thing. But while private employers added 257,000 in January, there was a loss of 14,000 government jobs - including 11,000 local government jobs. Now before my friends on the other side of the aisle stand up and shout about reducing the size of government, we need to ask ourselves -- what are local government jobs? Well, M. Speaker, these are cops, firefighters, teachers, librarians, and trash collectors. These are not faceless bureaucrats; they are people who make our lives safer, better and cleaner every day. And they are our neighbors, friends, and family members. Despite the relatively good news about the improving economy, we are clearly not where we need to be. Payroll employment is still 5.6 million jobs short of where it was at the beginning of the Great Recession in December 2007. There are four jobless workers for every job opening and long-term unemployment is still at historic high levels. It's clear that this rebound, as slow and painstaking as it is, is taking place in spite of House Republicans and their policies, not because of them. In fact, I believe actions taken and policies voted on by this House have slowed down this economy and prevented a faster and more robust recovery. For example, Congressional Republicans should be doing all they can do to prevent a tax increase on middle class Americans. Congressional Republicans should be doing all they can to extend unemployment insurance for people who are unemployed at no fault of their own. Yet they continue to drag their feet on this legislation and, in fact, continue to bicker among themselves about the need to extend these programs. M. Speaker, we're one week into February, more than one month into the new year, more than 13 months into this new Republican-controlled House and we have yet to see one meaningful jobs bill. No wonder Congress' approval rating is at historic lows. And instead of bringing legislation to the floor that would help the economy - like a clean extension of the payroll tax and unemployment insurance - the GOP would rather bring up misguided budget bills that simply attempt to rig the budget rules so they can score cheap political points. House Republicans are simply trying to change the rules of the game to benefit their own point of view. This bill today, the so-called Budget and Accounting Transparency Act is another sham bill in the Republican leadership's quest to change the rules of budgeting. This may seem like -inside baseball- to some, but it really is something quite extraordinary. Simply, the Republicans, with this bill, are attempting to artificially inflate the cost of federal credit programs. They do so by changing the way government credit programs are calculated. The federal budget is supposed to count the amount of money that is spent and the revenue received. If there is more money coming in than going out, it's a surplus. The opposite is a deficit. What the Republican leadership is trying to do with this bill is to recalculate the way these credit programs are scored, or counted, in the budget process - automatically making them more expensive. They do so by treating government credit programs in a similar way to private credit programs, even though they are treated differently by the markets. On top of changing the way these credit programs are scored, it's important to point out that this bill doesn't apply to all federal programs. In other words, we would have one set of scoring rules for one set of federal programs and another one just for federal credit programs. That makes no sense. If some of these recent budget bills are any indication, the House Republican leadership cares more about rigging the budget process just to dismantle the federal safety net instead of actually working to reduce the deficit and, at the same time, spur job creation. I urge my colleagues to vote ‘no' on this rule and the underlying bill and to put our focus back where it belongs - creating a stronger economy for the American people. I reserve the balance of my time.
02.02.2012	Five Things You Probably Don't Know About Food Stamps February 2, 2012 Dear Colleague, As you may know, I am circulating a series of Dear Colleagues on the SNAP program specifically because the plight of the hungry in America has been thrust into the center of our political debate. There are many misconceptions about SNAP. I believe it's important for all of us to know the facts. Yesterday, I circulated a Dear Colleague outlining SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps. I included an informational report about SNAP, essentially a SNAP 101 primer. Today, I am circulating a report titled -Five Things You Probably Don't Know About Food Stamps- http://www.offthechartsblog.org/five-things-you-probably-dont-know-about-food-stamps/. The number of people struggling with hunger in America is rising - and it's because of the bad economy. Even more people would go hungry if it weren't for SNAP. But SNAP is not a program just for the unemployed, nor is it a program that is overrun with fraud, waste and abuse. As you'll see in this report, not only have the number of working families on SNAP risen over the past decade but those numbers are forecast to go down over the next few years as the economy recovers. SNAP is a counter-cyclical program. In other words, participation increases when the economy - specifically wages - worsens. That's what we've seen over the past few years and we'll see fewer people relying on SNAP as the economy gets better. In the coming weeks, I will continue to circulate news articles and fact sheets about SNAP and its role in preventing hunger. I will continue to correct the misconceptions and misleading comments that are being perpetuated by those who either don't know much about the program or are opposed to it. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.02.2012	LEARN THE TRUTH ABOUT FOOD STAMPS Dear Colleague, Over the past few weeks, the hungry in America have been thrust into the center of our political debate. Unfortunately, the plight of those who struggle to put food on their tables is not being highlighted as a scourge that needs to be ended but, rather, as a political weapon designed to score cheap political points in political arena. It's one thing to point out the fact that more people are relying on SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps, but it's another to use this fact as a pejorative. The truth is SNAP is a safety-net program designed to prevent people living in America from going without food during difficult economic times. Over the past few years, we have suffered through the worst economy since the Great Depression. As a result, millions of people lost their jobs and millions more saw their wages decrease. As these families saw their wages either decrease or simply go away, they could either make the tough choice between paying their rents and utilities or putting food on their tables. Fortunately for them, SNAP was created to prevent these families from having to make that choice. Let's be clear - no one wants to be poor. No one wants a handout. I am confident that the vast majority of people on SNAP don't want to be on SNAP. They'd rather provide for their families on their own, without any type of assistance whether it's from the federal government or from their church or other private community organization. I encourage you to learn the truth about SNAP - that it's a true safety net program that is income based; that people become eligible for SNAP only if their incomes fall below a certain level and that no President can -put- people on SNAP; and that SNAP is not only a anti-hunger program but actually stimulates the economy by a rate of $1.87 for every SNAP dollar spent. Every day this week, I will circulate fact sheets and news articles that lay out the facts about SNAP. These articles and fact sheets explain what SNAP is and how it works. These articles also discuss why the claims about President Obama being the food stamp president are false and misleading. The first is a simple primer on the program titled -Policy Basics: Introduction to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)- http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=2226. I encourage you to read these articles and fact sheets. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions, concerns or want more information about SNAP or other domestic anti-hunger programs. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.02.2012	LEARN THE TRUTH ABOUT FOOD STAMPS Dear Colleague, Over the past few weeks, the hungry in America have been thrust into the center of our political debate. Unfortunately, the plight of those who struggle to put food on their tables is not being highlighted as a scourge that needs to be ended but, rather, as a political weapon designed to score cheap political points in political arena. It's one thing to point out the fact that more people are relying on SNAP, formerly known as Food Stamps, but it's another to use this fact as a pejorative. The truth is SNAP is a safety-net program designed to prevent people living in America from going without food during difficult economic times. Over the past few years, we have suffered through the worst economy since the Great Depression. As a result, millions of people lost their jobs and millions more saw their wages decrease. As these families saw their wages either decrease or simply go away, they could either make the tough choice between paying their rents and utilities or putting food on their tables. Fortunately for them, SNAP was created to prevent these families from having to make that choice. Let's be clear - no one wants to be poor. No one wants a handout. I am confident that the vast majority of people on SNAP don't want to be on SNAP. They'd rather provide for their families on their own, without any type of assistance whether it's from the federal government or from their church or other private community organization. I encourage you to learn the truth about SNAP - that it's a true safety net program that is income based; that people become eligible for SNAP only if their incomes fall below a certain level and that no President can -put- people on SNAP; and that SNAP is not only a anti-hunger program but actually stimulates the economy by a rate of $1.87 for every SNAP dollar spent. Every day this week, I will circulate fact sheets and news articles that lay out the facts about SNAP. These articles and fact sheets explain what SNAP is and how it works. These articles also discuss why the claims about President Obama being the food stamp president are false and misleading. The first is a simple primer on the program titled -Policy Basics: Introduction to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)- http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cfm?fa=view&id=2226. I encourage you to read these articles and fact sheets. Please feel free to contact me if you have any questions, concerns or want more information about SNAP or other domestic anti-hunger programs. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Member of Congress
02.02.2012	On January 31st, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern signed onto the following letter, calling for a moratorium on the closure of Post Offices. Patrick R. Donahoe, Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260-0010 Dear Mr. Donahoe: We understand that the United States Postal Service (USPS) is facing acute financial difficulties, and as a result, has made the decision to begin the process of closing thousands of postal facilities. We share your concern about the solvency of the USPS and its future as our nation's postal service. Recently however, the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) reviewed the Postal Service's Retail Access Optimization Initiative (RAOI), which is being used as the basis for the possible closure of more than 3,600 post offices and other retail facilities, and found serious flaws with the analysis that call into question the USPS's current consolidations plans. We share the concerns of the PRC, and ask for you to place a moratorium on the USPS's current discontinuance studies until the USPS resolves the numerous problems the PRC identified in the RAIO. These include: Incomplete data for all Post Offices, branches and stations. Currently, the USPS does not have inclusive data for every individual office, branch or station, which makes it impossible to accurately calculate cost savings from proposed closures. Inaccurate representations of usage and revenues for all Post Offices, branches and stations. For example, revenue measurements do not include transactions such as post office box visits, exceptional dispatch for local periodicals, or alternate revenue transactions such as business mail or returns. Estimates of the distance between postal facilities that are undergoing a discontinuance study and others nearby that would be required to absorb the consumer base use geographical distance rather than actual driving distance. While the discontinuance study may address this issue, the RAOI needs to provide this information at a preliminary stage so accurate assessments can be used to inform which Post Offices, branches or station are eligible for a discontinuance study. The low workload and revenue screen included in the RAOI disproportionately targets rural post offices for discontinuance studies. Targeting rural post offices for discontinuance studies clearly violates 39 U.S.C. 101(b), which maintains that the USPS is required to provide effective and regular postal service to rural communities. We strongly urge you to rectify these issues within the RAOI before proceeding with any discontinuance studies or closures. The closure of Post Offices, stations, and branches will undoubtedly affect communities and lead to the loss of middle class jobs. We remain dedicated to protecting our nation's postal service and ensuring that all communities are adequately served by the USPS.
01.31.2012	McGovern joins Markey, Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Calling on Obama to Increase Home Energy Assistance Funding in 2013 Budget Request 103 lawmakers sign letter to President urging funding of $4.7 billion for LIHEAP; More than 200,000 MA families rely on life-saving program Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), longtime Congressional champion of providing assistance to low-income families to heat and cool their homes and dean of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation, was joined by a bipartisan group of 102 lawmakers in a letter urging President Barack Obama to fund the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) at the FY2011 level of $4.7 billion. Rep. Markey led the letter with Representatives Lou Barletta (R-Pa.), James McGovern (D-Mass.), Peter King (R-N.Y.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Michael Grimm (R-N.Y.), John Larson (D-Ct.) and Jim Gerlach (R-Pa.). Funding for LIHEAP in FY2012 was cut by 24 percent, to $3.47 billion. -We understand the fiscal challenges we face as a nation. Nevertheless, we ask that the Administration's FY2013 budget request for LIHEAP is at least as much as the $4.7 billion provided in FY2011 so that the neediest Americans are not left out in the cold,-write the lawmakers in the letter to President Obama. A copy of the letter can be found HERE. The LIHEAP program continues to have record-breaking requests for assistance. Last year, LIHEAP provided critical home energy assistance to 8.9 million American households. The number of veteran households served by the program has increased from approximately 700,00 in FY2008 to 1.78 million in FY2011. As many as 9.4 million households are expected to apply for aid nationwide this year. Last year, Massachusetts helped more than 200,000 households through LIHEAP funding, ensuring that families did not have to choose between prescriptions, food and heating during New England's harsh winter. More than 65,000 Massachusetts families rely on LIHEAP to help pay for delivered fuel. The Energy Information Agency (EIA) projects average household home heating oil expenditures will increase eight percent and reach record highs this winter. The EIA also forecasts increases of three percent for consumers heating with natural gas and seven percent for those using propane.
01.23.2012	The following OpEd, cowritten with Free Speech for People co-founder Jeff Clements, appeared in the Boston Globe on Saturday January 21st. "THE FIRST three words of the preamble of our Constitution are -We the People.'' Two years ago today the US Supreme Court in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission upended that promising vision. Corporations — which do not have mouths, minds, or consciences — won a -free speech'' right to spend unlimited money to influence elections. The court cast aside a century of law intended to prevent the biggest, richest corporations from controlling our elections and government. We now see a flood of uncontrolled and undisclosed special-interest money flowing into our electoral system, drowning out the voices of average Americans and deepening cynicism and hopelessness about our politics. While shocking, Citizens United was not a fluke. Unelected courts have increasingly allowed the radical -corporate speaker'' theory that lies behind Citizen United to trump the judgment of the people and their elected representatives, and to damage the public interest far beyond elections. We see the consequences around us, from jobs and wages to health care and the environment. The People's Rights Amendment makes clear that the words -people'' and -person'' in our Constitution mean human beings. Tom Michelman, Freeman trail supporter A federal judge in Washington recently used corporate speech rights to block the Food and Drug Administration from requiring tobacco companies to place graphic warning labels on cigarette packages. A federal court sided with Monsanto and other corporations in their efforts against state laws requiring labeling of milk, cheese, ice cream, and other dairy products that come from cows injected with a genetically modified bovine drug that is banned in most democracies in the world. Utility corporations have used courts to strike down conservation and other energy laws. Wall Street corporations demand the invalidation of shareholder democracy laws. Corporate-owned universities file litigation because they claim graduation and job-placement standards violate corporate rights. Corporations are not people. They are artificial entities that we the people create under state laws. They do not breathe. They do not have children. They do not go to war. Yet they now have far more say than we the people. We cannot afford to let Citizens United go unchallenged. We need the People's Rights Amendment to renew our republican democracy and the integrity of our Bill of Rights. There are only two ways a Supreme Court ruling can be overturned. The court can do so in a new case, or the people can do so by ratifying a Constitutional amendment, as we have done at least six times before. Given the corporate-friendly approach of the current Roberts court, we can't wait for the Supreme Court to correct Citizens United. The People's Rights Amendment is the best solution. It answers basic question raised by Citizens United: Are we a government of free and equal people or a government of the most powerful, most wealthy corporations? The People's Rights Amendment makes clear that the words -people'' and -person'' in our Constitution mean human beings, not economic entities with special privileges created by state law. This clarifies the authority of Congress and the states to regulate -corporations, limited liability companies or other corporate entities established by the laws of any state, the United States, or any foreign state'' as the people see fit. The amendment is crafted to protect the people's rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free exercise of religion, freedom of association, and all other rights. We need a serious, thoughtful debate in this country on the role of corporations in our lives. The People's Rights Amendment will spur that debate and, once ratified, will ensure, in Lincoln's words, that -government of, for, and by the people shall not perish from the Earth.''
01.18.2012	"While internet piracy is an issue that should be addressed, HR 3261 (SOPA), as written is unwise, unfair, and against what I believe are fundamental rights for all Americans. I plan on voting against the current legislation, although the GOP is now indicating that they will not bring SOPA to the floor for a vote at all."
01.13.2012	U.S. Reps. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Walter Jones (R-NC) today sent the attached letter to President Obama urging him to authorize the declassification and release of the 2011 National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Afghanistan. -Recent media reports have detailed that the current National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Afghanistan recognizes that U.S. policy has not achieved the objectives you have stated for our nation in Afghanistan,- the letter says. -The American public and its elected representatives deserve to have a full understanding of the situation in and outlook for Afghanistan as understood by our government. Too many families of our service members are sacrificing too greatly to allow for anything else.- Reps. McGovern and Jones have worked together frequently to change U.S. policy toward Afghanistan. A copy of the letter is available below.
12.30.2011	-I am extremely concerned and disappointed by the Egyptian government's raids against several non-governmental organizations (NGOs), including Freedom House, the National Democratic Institute, and the International Republican Institute, among others. The timing and manner of these actions appear aimed at suppressing the development of independent voices and democratic institutions. I urge the Egyptian government to prevent any further raids, return seized materials to NGOs, allow peaceful NGOs to operate freely, and sustain an atmosphere for building the genuine democracy that the Egyptian people deserve.- - Congressman Jim McGovern
12.23.2011	Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairmen Call for Immediate and Unconditional Release of Gao Zhisheng Following news reports that Chinese human rights lawyer Gao Zhisheng was returned to prison, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairmen Frank R. Wolf (R-VA) and James P. McGovern (D-MA) today called for his immediate and unconditional release. Gao, a tireless advocate for political and religious dissenters, faces up to three years in prison for -seriously- violating his probation, according to Chinese news reports. Wolf and McGovern questioned how someone under House arrest and who actually went missing for more than a year-and-a-half could violate their parole. -We urge the global community to speak with one voice and tell Beijing that Gao's continued harassment and unjust imprisonment is simply unacceptable. It is critical that this administration must firmly stand up and show support for those who are jailed for peacefully seeking freedom and human rights,- said Wolf and McGovern. The bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission was established in the U.S. House of Representatives to educate Members of Congress on human rights issues and advocate on behalf of human rights defenders world-wide.
12.23.2011	Last night, the Rules Committee - at the direction of the Republican leadership - voted out a martial law rule that will deny the House of Representatives an up-or-down vote on the bipartisan Senate compromise. No vote! We're only days away from seeing 160 million hard working, middle-income Americans see their taxes increase - and there's no vote. We're on the verge of allowing two million jobless people to lose their unemployement benefits and 48 million senior citizens to lose their healthcare - and the Republicans tell us there can be no vote! Are you kidding me? My Republican friends last night defended their delaying tactics by saying all they wanted was to protect regular order when it comes to legislation. Since when? Last week we passed an omnibus appropriations bill where half of the appropriations bills never even came to the floor for a vote. And this rule today provides blanket, same day authority to do anything they want through January 17th of next year! Regular order? Please. Sadly, the Rules Committee is becoming a place where democracy and fairness goes to die. This is shameful. We have a habit in this House where we like to point fingers and blame the Senate for its dysfunction. But we can't do that today. Because the Senate actually functioned and gave us a bipartisan compromise. It's not perfect, and we all want a one year extension of the payroll tax cut - but as we struggle to find acceptable payfors, which up to this point we have not been able to do, the U.S. Senate has provided us with a bridge to get there. This compromise includes a short term extension of the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance and the doc fix. This package also includes a requirement that President Obama make a decision on the Keystone XL pipeline - which many of us find hard to swallow. But Democrats get something they want and Republicans get something they want. But that's not good enough for House Republicans. At a time when the American people want Democrats and Republicans to work together - the Senate actually did and 89 Senators - 39 Republicans - including the Minority Leader Mitch McConnell voted yes. That politicians can come to agreement on important matters, I believe, is a good thing. What's a bad thing is what House Republican Leaders are doing today; trying to scuttle this deal by denying us a vote. I would ask my Republican colleagues, what do you have against the middle class? Why in the world would anyone want to raise taxes on working families come January 1st? Why are Republicans so indifferent to the plight of the unemployed? How can anyone turn their backs on millions of senior citizens? In today's Washington Post, a Republican Member is quoted as saying, quote, -its high stakes poker- end quote. Well, M. Speaker, this is not a card game. In fact, this is not a game of any kind. Well, M. Speaker, let me inform my Republican colleagues that this is not a game. This is real life. With real people. And real consequences. I would say to the Republican leaders of this House, show us that you can govern. This is time for an adult moment. It's time to tell your Tea Party wing - that the American people come first. It is time to put country ahead of political party. It is time to stop the games. We're less than twelve days away from a tax increase on middle class Americans and, instead of doing what's right for 160 million Americans, the Republican leadership is playing politics. Denying us a vote and making certain that, today, we will accomplish absolutely nothing for the American people. Instead of doing the right thing, the Republican leadership has bowed down to the most extreme elements of their party. Unfortunately, the real losers are the American people. They deserve better than this. Let me say to my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, vote down this rule. Don't leave town until we have a chance to vote on the Senate compromise to ensure that millions of our fellow citizens don't see their taxes go up during these difficult economic times. Give us a vote. Let Members of this House to do what's right for the American people. Give us a vote.
12.16.2011	END THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN NOW M. Speaker, on Saturday, the New York Times reported that our ambassador in Afghanistan, Ryan C. Crocker, told a group of journalists that U.S. troops could stay in Afghanistan long past the president's 2014 deadline if the Afghan government asked us to stay. The very next day, the New York Times reported Afghan President Hamid Karzai blaming foreigners, including the United States, for the corruption that is so rampant in his government. He had the audacity to say this at an event marking International Anti-Corruption Day. M. Speaker, Afghanistan is one of the most corrupt countries on the face of the earth. Transparency International ranks Afghanistan as the 2nd most corrupt government, right behind Somalia and North Korea, which tied for first place. So I ask my colleagues, why should we shed a single drop more of blood - sacrifice the lives of our servicemen and women - for a corrupt government that doesn't even have the decency to take responsibility for its own failures? Enough is enough. We have spent over $440 Billion on military operations alone in Afghanistan since 9/11. In 2012, we aim to spend another $113 Billion. By this time next year, our total spending on the war in Afghanistan -just the military operations - will be around $557 Billion - that's over half a trillion dollars. And when I say -spend,- I really mean -borrow.- Because from Day One of the Afghanistan War - and the Iraq war, for that matter - we have not paid for the military operations in these wars. We have borrowed nearly every single penny of that money, put it on the national credit card, let it rack up over a quarter of our cumulative deficit, and helped explode our debt year after year for a decade. Sadly, when it comes to paying for this war, too many in Washington are silent. M. Speaker, over 1800 servicemen and women have died in Afghanistan, forty-two of them from Massachusetts. Over 14,000 wounded. Husbands, fathers, wives and mothers. Sons and daughters, brothers and sisters. Holes created in families and communities that can never be filled, losses that will be felt for a generation or more. Each month the tally of dead and wounded gets higher. 2010 was the deadliest year for American troops in the history of the Afghanistan war. And 2011, a close second. We've become numb to the numbers. We don't even hear them anymore. But these losses resonate around family kitchen tables in the homes of the deployed every day and night of the year. We all know that the human cost of the war is found not only on the battlefields of Afghanistan. It's also found in Veterans Hospitals and counseling clinics around the country. We continue to struggle with soaring rates of traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress and suicides among our soldiers and our veterans. So many leave the service or try and carry on military careers wounded in both body and soul. Even if we were to leave Afghanistan tomorrow - and I'm so very glad to see our troops coming home from Iraq - our war debt will continue for decades. And for what, M. Speaker? For ten years of support for a corrupt government in Afghanistan? Ten years of sacrificing our brave uniformed men and women? Ten years of borrowing money we never had? This war is no longer about going after al-Qaeda - which I voted to do. Osama bin Laden is dead. Instead, we're now bogged down in a seemingly endless occupation in support of an incompetent and corrupt Karzai government. This is not what I voted for. So, yes, I'm really worried when I pick up the newspaper and read Ambassador Crocker saying we may be in Afghanistan for years beyond 2014. The American people are way ahead of the Congress and the White House on this issue. They want this war ended now. But it seems that Washington just doesn't get it. But when all is said and done, the responsibility for continuing or ending the war is right here - in this Chamber. We approved this war; we must now take responsibility to end it. This is why, M. Speaker, I will vote against the Conference Report on the FY 2012 national defense authorizations bill. The defense bill includes many good and important provisions, but it does nothing to wind down the war in Afghanistan. It's way past time to bring our troops home from Afghanistan. I can't authorize any more funding that doesn't explicitly call on the President to plan and carry out the accelerated removal of our troops. Bring them home, Mr. President. Bring them all home. Now.
12.16.2011	M. Speaker, let me begin by thanking Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Dicks for their tireless work on this bill. I'm pleased that we are finally going to finish the appropriations process for the year. I especially want to thank the White House, Senator Reid and other key Senate and House negotiators for removing the House Cuba provision from the final conference report. Not only was it a direct attack on the prerogatives of the Executive, but it was cruel and inhumane and would have ripped apart Cuban American families from their relatives on the island. Family communication, connection and reunification have always been a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy. It has promoted great good in the case of Cuba and it deserves the support of this Congress. But I can't let this opportunity go without commenting on this process. Read the bill. That's what my Republican friends shouted last year. Read the bill. They used this rallying cry to promote their Pledge to America, where they promised to read the bill. Quote -we will ensure that bills are debated and discussed in the public square by publishing the text online for at least three days before coming up for a vote in the House of Representatives- end quote. That's directly from their pledge. Yet we're here today, considering a 2300 page bill that was introduced at 11:45pm - last night. That's not 3 days, M. Speaker. That's not even 12 hours. 2300 pages presented to this House in the dead of night. The Rules Committee didn't finish until close to 1am this morning and here we are. Who in the body knows for sure what is in this bill? Who in the body has had the time to read this bill? This is not the way you promised to run this House. This is not how you said you'd do the people's business. You said you'd bring up every appropriations bill under an open rule, but you barely managed to bring up half of them. What happened to the Labor HHS bill? What happened to the Transportation bill? The Financial Services bill? The Interior bill? The State and Foreign Ops bill? The CJS bill? You couldn't be bothered to bring them up. Sure, you found time to bring up bills defunding Planned Parenthood and NPR, allowing unsafe people to carry concealed weapons, and reaffirming our national motto. But you couldn't find time to debate bills funding our nations roads, bridges, national parks, and community health centers. You couldn't find time to do your job. I'm glad the appropriators reached an agreement, but it's sad that this Republican Congress has once again broken the promise they made to the American people. A 2300 page bill - something this important and this detailed - can't be read and examined in a few hours. That's why you promised 3 days to read the bill. But you couldn't even keep that promise. I remember when immunity for prescription drug companies was inserted into an appropriations bill without anyone knowing. I have the utmost respect for the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee and I take him at his word when he says there are no earmarks in this bill, that there are no special provisions, that there is nothing snuck in here at the last minute. But look at this bill. It's 2300 pages. It was introduced in the dead of night. It was reported out of Rules just before 1am. Read the bill, M. Speaker. The new Republican Congress promised that we could read the bill. Too bad they are breaking that pledge to America. I yield back the balance of my time.
12.13.2011	Statement of U.S. Representative James P. McGovern Rule for consideration of H.R. 3630 December 13, 2011 I thank the distinguished Chairman of the Rules Committee, Mr. Dreier, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself as much time as I may consume. I rise in opposition to this closed rule and to the underlying bill. M. Speaker, this bill and this process is so lousy that I barely know where to begin today. Let's start with the process. The way this bill was conceived, drafted and brought up may be the worst yet under this Republican-controlled Congress. Simply, this process is shameful. It is an embarrassment. This 369 page monstrosity was presented on Friday afternoon. I use the word presented because it was introduced on a day when no committee met and we had no votes in the House. It was referred to 12 committees - that's more than half the committees in the House - but no committee held a hearing or a markup on this bill. It never saw the light of day in any of these committees. There are 348 Members who sit on the Committees that have jurisdiction over this bill. That's 348 Members of the House who should have had the opportunity to offer amendments and question witnesses about this bill in committee markups and hearings. Not one of these Members had that opportunity. And this lousy process leads to bad legislating. Just look at this bill. It's long and it's sloppy. The Republicans who rushed to put this bill together have already found one error. Who knows how many more there are in here? Last year, Speaker Boehner, Majority Leader Cantor, Whip McCarthy and other Members of the Republican leadership rolled out their Pledge to America, their campaign pledge to run this House in a more open way. Yet all year long they have been chipping away at their pledge. And now we have this bill that flat out breaks their pledge. In their pledge, the House Republicans promised to quote -end the practice of packaging unpopular bills with "must-pass" legislation to circumvent the will of the American people. Instead, we will advance major legislation one issue at a time. - End quote. Yet we have three provisions - extension of the payroll tax cut, extension of unemployment insurance and the SGR or doc fix - that are must pass by the end of this year. And do we have a clean bill that is free from unrelated provisions? Of course not. That would be logical and make too much sense. No, M. Speaker, the bill we have before us is loaded up with goodies to mollify the extreme right wing that is in charge of this House. Along with the extension of the payroll tax cut and the doc fix, this bill includes the following: Requires the approval of the controversial Keystone pipeline; requires millions of seniors to pay more for healthcare; increases taxes on working families by forcing large, end-of-the-year healthcare payments; slashes prevention funding that actually reduces Medicare and Medicaid costs; undermines air quality, endangering the health of children and families by blocking mercury pollution reduction; cuts retirement programs for federal workers; and extends the pay freeze for federal workers. Each of these provisions are different - they have nothing to do with each other. Why are they bunched together in one bill? And these policies are bad for America - they are bad for the American people. Yet the Republican leadership continues to push these extreme and harmful provisions. And even though the unemployment insurance program needs to be extended, this bill actually erodes this important program by cutting unemployment insurance benefits for one million Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own and it imposes new limits on unemployment compensation by restricting benefits employees have paid for. Why is always so difficult in this House to help middle class families and those struggling to get into the middle class? Why do you throw roadblock after roadblock in front of middle class Americans who are trying make their lives better? Why do you continue to make it virtually impossible for us to help average people - while at the same time doing everything in your power to protect subsidies for big oil companies and tax cuts for the Donald Trump's of the world? Extension of the payroll tax cut, extension of the unemployment insurance program and the doc fix should not be controversial and these extensions should have been done a long time ago. Yet here we are, weeks before the year ends, and we're debating a huge Christmas tree that tries to undercut the clean air act, that jams through a controversial pipeline proposal, that undercuts our nation's health systems. My friends on the other side of the aisle are playing a very risky game. We know that failure to extend the payroll tax cut will mean a $1500 tax increase on middle class Americans. We know that 160 million Americans will see their taxes go up if we don't act before the end of the year. So why are Republicans bringing a bill to the floor that we know will not pass the Senate? Why are you wasting precious time? The Republican leadership insists on playing chicken with the American people just to score cheap political points. This is not the time for political theatre. No, M. Speaker, this is the time for responsible leadership. It's time to do the right thing for the American people and drop these controversial provisions from this bill. This is not the time to increases taxes on middle class Americans. It's time to extend the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance and the doc fix. M. Speaker, this House needs to get back to doing the people's business. And the people's business is jobs. It would be nice if my Republican friends would allow the president's jobs bill to come to the floor for a vote - rather than bills that reaffirm our national motto or make it easier for unsafe people to carry concealed weapons from one state to another. I'd say to my Republican friends - the American people are outraged. They're outraged at your indifference to the middle class. They're outraged by your callous attitude toward the most vulnerable in this country. They're outraged that you're playing politics with their lives. M. Speaker, I urge my Republican colleagues to do the right thing - to pass a clean extension of the payroll tax cut, properly extend unemployment insurance and the doc fix. Do the right thing and do it the right way. That's all the American people are asking for. I reserve the balance of my time.
12.08.2011	"Once again, our community is given a tragic reminder of the risks our firefighters take each and every day. Once again, we grieve. Our hearts go out to the family, friends and colleagues of our fallen hero, Jon Davies. We hope for the full recovery of Brian Carroll. We will come together - stand together as one - to give them the prayers and support they need."
12.07.2011	"The ongoing war in Afghanistan...threatens to stretch our commitment into another decade. In August you announced the gradual removal of the "surge" troops, and yet over 70,000 troops will remain in Afghanistan at this time next year. This is unsustainable and counterproductive. There is unanimous agreement that the future of Afghanistan depends on Afghans and their regional allies implementing a political solution. there is simply no military solution to the curret challenges in Afghanistan and maintaining an American military presence only delays the inevitable political process while putting our brave men and women in uniform in harms' way." December 6, 2011 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, We write to express our strong support for your recent decision to bring our troops home from Iraq by year's end. We were relieved to learn that our service men and women will be home from Iraq for the holidays. The ongoing war in Afghanistan, by contrast, threatens to stretch our commitment into another decade. In August you announced the gradual removal of the -surge- troops, and yet over 70,000 troops will remain in Afghanistan at this time next year. This is unsustainable and counterproductive. There is unanimous agreement that the future of Afghanistan depends on Afghans and their regional allies implementing a political solution. There is simply no military solution to the current challenges in Afghanistan and maintaining an American military presence only delays the inevitable political process while putting our brave men and women in uniform in harms' way. Furthermore, it is crucial that Congress plays its proper Constitutional role in any decision to leave U.S. troops in a potential combat zone. While the United States is currently scheduled to hand over full control over security and remove all combat troops by the end of 2014, a new agreement could result in an indefinite military commitment and significant financial costs, all without further Congressional approval. Dating back to 2009, eleven acts authorizing and funding troop presence in Afghanistan have included a provision specifically prohibiting the establishment of permanent bases in Afghanistan. Any agreement that obliges the U.S. to a security commitment in Afghanistan must be bound by the Constitution, and be specifically authorized by an Act of Congress, or with the advice and consent of the Senate. While reports indicate that President Karzai plans on requiring any future strategic partnership agreement with the U.S. to be approved by the Afghan Parliament, a traditional tribal gathering, or both, there is no plan to have similar Congressional input. It is unconscionable that America could make new, lasting military commitments of tens of thousands of soldiers and hundreds of billions of dollars without express approval from Congress. Rebuilding America must remain our top priority, and this should be reflected in our budgetary priorities. We need to end the wars and invest the savings in job creation for our future.
11.30.2011	I rise in opposition to this rule and in opposition to the three bills that would be made in order by this rule. Regulatory uncertainty is a canard invented by Republicans that allows them to use current economic problems to pursue an agenda supported by the business community year in and year out. In other words, it is a simple case of political opportunism, not a serious effort to deal with high unemployment. Those aren't my words, M. Speaker. Those are the words of Bruce Bartlett, a Republican who worked for Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. Think about what Mr. Bartlett is saying in his last sentence - Republicans would rather play political games instead of putting people back to work. They would rather fiddle while Rome burns instead of putting out the fire. And look at the Republican track record since the start of the 112th Congress. No jobs bills. Not one. But we've found time to debate bills defunding Planned Parenthood and NPR. No extension of the Payroll Tax Cut or Unemployment Insurance. But we can spend hours debating the need to allow unsafe people the right to carry concealed weapons. No effort to take away tax breaks for oil companies who continue to make billions of dollars in profits each month! But we can find time to make our air dirtier and our water less safe by dismantling the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts. Seriously, M. Speaker, the agenda of the far right continues to dominate this House leadership. And that agenda is out of touch with the needs of the American people. We have a jobs crisis in this country. The rich are getting richer and everyone else is struggling. Yet the Republicans continue to side with the people who don't need any help. They killed the Super Committee because they would rather protect tax cuts for millionaires instead of dealing with the deficit. They are refusing to take up the extension of the payroll tax cut that expires at the end of this year because they don't want their millionaire friends to pay just a little bit more. Just look at what we're doing this week. We're going to consider anti-regulatory bills that will make our country less safe and our citizens less healthy. We're going to consider a bill that actually promotes putting more corporate money into the political system. And we're going to debate a bill that makes it harder for workers to organize. Not one of these bills will put people back to work. Not one of these bills will help struggling families keep their heat on during the winter. Not one of these bills will help repair our aging infrastructure. To quote Mr. Bartlett again, -people are increasingly concerned about unemployment, but Republicans have nothing to offer them.- And that's the truth, M. Speaker. Republicans have nothing to offer. The President proposed - and I have cosponsored - the American Jobs Act. It's a proposal that would help put Americans back to work, would extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance, would help repair our aging infrastructure and would provide aid to cities and states so they don't have to lay off more teachers, police and firefighters. It's a bill that's paid for - it doesn't add one cent to the deficit. And it's made up of measures that Republicans and Democrats have supported in the past. The idea that a program was a good one under President Bush but not under President Obama doesn't make sense to me, but that seems to be the thought process that passes for governing under this Republican leadership. So where's the Republican plan? They don't have one. It's not enough to cross our fingers and hope that our economy improves. It's not enough to close our eyes and wish that more people would find a job. Actions speak louder than words and its clear, by the Republican leadership's actions, that they don't care about the economy. Either that, or they are making a conscious decision not to act simply for political gain. Either way, Americans are hurting because of their inaction. M. Speaker, our economy is not where it needs to be. There are still too many unemployed people in this country. There are still too many people struggling to make ends meet; struggling to pay their bills and put food on their tables. But this notion that red tape is what's keeping our economy from getting off the ground and that thoughtful regulations are preventing people from getting jobs is untrue. We don't need to waste time debating bills that make our air and water dirtier and less safe. We don't need to waste time with bills defunding NPR and Planned Parenthood. What we need to do is get this economy moving. What we need to do is create jobs. Republicans have been in charge for 330 days. That's 330 days without a jobs bill. It's not enough to call something a jobs bill if it doesn't put someone back to work. No, M. Speaker, we need a real jobs bill. We need definitive action that shows that American people that we care about their well being, that we understand what they're going through and that we're here to help. The bills we'll be considering this week just don't get the job done. It's been 330 days and the Republicans still don't get it. I can't say that I'm surprised. Disappointed, but not surprised. I reserve the balance of my time.
11.23.2011	Senate and House Hunger Caucus co-chairs are encouraging their colleagues to dedicate one hour during the holiday season to raise awareness and recognize efforts underway in their states to combat hunger. The Hour for Hunger initiative seeks to remind mem share: f t Hunger Caucus Urges Members to Raise Awareness Senate and House Hunger Caucus co-chairs are encouraging their colleagues to dedicate one hour during the holiday season to raise awareness and recognize efforts underway in their states to combat hunger. The Hour for Hunger initiative seeks to remind members that hunger knows no boundaries and when working together, this is a fight we can win. Today, Senators Richard Durbin, Richard Lugar, Robert P. Casey Jr., John Boozman, Sherrod Brown, Jerry Moran along with Representatives James P. McGovern and JoAnne Emerson released the following statements regarding the Hour for Hunger initiative. -Hunger in America is not something we can ignore. Nearly 15% of households have trouble keeping food on their tables, and 46 million Americans—including 1 in 7 Illinoisans—rely on essential food assistance programs,- said Sen. Durbin. -By participating in the Hour for Hunger, we can help raise awareness of this important problem. I encourage Illinoisans—and every American that has the means— to lend a hand by volunteering their time this holiday season. I will continue working in Congress to make sure that eliminating hunger within our borders remains a national priority.- -While food drives are popular during the holiday season, it is important to remember that hunger knows no season,- said Sen. Lugar. -Indiana Food Banks make a difference in the lives of many Hoosiers all year long, and they depend on contributions from generous citizens to meet the needs of communities throughout our state.- -The current economic climate has made it more difficult for many families in Pennsylvania to afford nutritious food,- Sen. Casey said. -Raising awareness is the first step to combatting the devastating effects of hunger and food insecurity across our Commonwealth and the nation.- -More often than ever we are seeing families that used to make deposits at the food bank being forced to make a withdrawal. This is true all across America.- Sen. Boozman said. -By committing one hour of their time during the holidays, Members of Congress can help raise awareness and put an end to hunger in their communities.- -Hunger isn't a seasonal condition for more than 680,000 Ohioans who are food insecure - it's a daily struggle that demands close attention and constant action,- Sen. Brown said. -We must continue to make time to address new ways to improve access to healthy, nutritious foods and other resources needed urgently by our fellow citizens.- -In Kansas and across the country, committed organizations and caring individuals work to help hungry Americans,- said Sen. Moran. -The holidays are an appropriate time to recognize their efforts and redouble our own commitment to ending hunger.- -Hunger in America never takes a day off,- Rep. McGovern said. -It's especially important during this holiday season that we remind ourselves that too many of our neighbors struggle to put enough food on the table. I hope that all members will take the time to participate in this bipartisan effort.- -Especially during the holidays, when we reflect on all of the blessings in our lives, it is appropriate to take time out to be mindful of less-fortunate Americans who suffer from hunger. This time of year is also empowering to Americans who want to help. When we contribute even a small portion of our time and talent to fight hunger, it makes a great difference in the lives of others who don't have enough to eat,- Rep. Emerson said. According to recent studies, for one in six Americans, hunger is a reality and many of those suffering from food insecurities are children. During the Hour for Hunger initiative, Hunger Caucus co-chairs are sending information to members about programs, types of visits and activities, and other actions that members can do to raise awareness and learn more about the face of hunger in America.
11.22.2011	Pelosi, McGovern Members of Congress Send Letter to President Santos of Colombia Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and seven Members of Congress sent a letter to President Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia this week thanking him for his commitment to address labor rights in Colombia and establishing a Congressional Monitoring Group on Labor Rights in Colombia that will work with the Obama Administration and others to ensure that progress is made on labor rights in the coming months. Below is the full text of the letter. November 16, 2011 Juan Manuel Santos Calderon President of Colombia Casa de Nariño Bogotá, Colombia Dear President Santos: Thank you for your commitment to improve the protections and conditions of labor and human rights for the people of Colombia. There is no question that Colombia has been and will continue to be a staunch ally of the United States in our shared efforts to promote security, prosperity and democracy in Latin America. As Members of the U.S. Congress who voted both for and against the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement, we are united in our commitment to help the working people of Colombia and to help you in your efforts to make progress for your country. To that end, we have established a Congressional Monitoring Group on Labor Rights in Colombia that will work closely with the Obama Administration, U.S. and Colombian labor organizations and non-governmental organizations, and, with your support, the Colombian government. Our goal is to ensure that both the U.S. and Colombia continue to make progress on labor rights including the commitments and timelines announced in the Colombian Action Plan Related to Labor Rights. We support the commitment outlined in the Action Plan -to protect internationally recognized labor rights, prevent violence against labor leaders, and prosecute perpetrators of such violence.- Under your leadership, the Colombian government has taken important steps to help address Colombia's labor and human rights conditions including: · Passing legislation to establish a Labor Ministry to provide better capacity to protect and institutionalize labor rights; · Committing to improve legal provisions and regulations associated with labor cooperatives and other employer relationships that undermine workers' rights, including already accelerating the effective date of sanctions on the misuse of labor cooperatives; · Expanding coverage of the union leaders' protection program and, in consultation with teachers' union representatives, strengthening the separate teacher protection program; · Passing the Victims and Land Restitution Law that offers compensation to as many as four million victims and restitution of two million hectares of land over the next ten years to over 460,000 families displaced due to the internal armed conflict; · Starting the process to hire and train the first 100 of 480 additional labor inspectors over the next four years as part of the commitment to mobilize resources and strengthen enforcement of a system to protect labor rights; and · Committing to formally partner with the International Labor Organization to -significantly strengthen the presence in Colombia in order to help implement the measures outlined in the Action Plan.- In the coming months, there is more work to be done to protect labor rights in Colombia and to fully accomplish the objectives in the Action Plan. We look forward to working with you to ensure, among other priorities, that significant progress is made to: · Reduce violence and threats of violence against trade unionists and human rights defenders, including the high number of assassinated union leaders in recent years; · Prohibit the abuse of cooperatives and any other contractual employment relationships that curtail worker rights and ensure they are not replaced by similar entities; · Ensure that Colombian law protects the ability of Colombian workers to exercise core labor rights; · Establish regular and meaningful consultation with labor unions and the Escuela Nacional Sindical to address the backlog of cases related to murdered unionists, and establish similar consultations that include individual beneficiaries of protection over the development and implementation of protective measures; · Produce results in the investigations and prosecutions of cases of anti-union violence, including threats, attacks and assassinations; and · Effectively implement the Victims' and Land Restitution Law and ensure protection to returning communities and victims' and land rights leaders. We understand the challenges to addressing the labor rights situation in Colombia. This critical work squares fully with your own stated priorities to end Colombia's culture of impunity, promote human rights, strengthen democratic institutions and reduce Colombia's grave inequities. It is in that spirit of commitment that we look forward to working with you to build a more prosperous future for the people of Colombia. Thank you for your leadership. Sincerely, Nancy Pelosi George Miller Sander M. Levin Rosa L. DeLauro House Democratic Leader Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Sam Farr James P. McGovern Joseph Crowley Michael H. Michaud Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
11.22.2011	U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN APPLAUDS $930,000 IN HUD FUNDING FOR MAIN SOUTH IN WORCESTER U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-03) today commended the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for awarding $930,000 to the City of Worcester for the Main South to Loomworks Revitalization project. -This is terrific news for Worcester - particularly for the Main South neighborhood,- Rep. McGovern said. -We've made a lot of progress in Main South over the last several years, but more needs to be done. Comprehensive, sustainable economic development is the goal, and this federal funding will allow the City to keep moving in that direction. I want to commend the partners in this effort, including Community Builders, Inc., the Main South Community Development Corporation, and the Institute of Energy and Sustainability for all of their hard work.- The funding announced today, under the Community Challenge Grant Award program, will expand upon recent planning efforts in the Main South neighborhood. While some of the area's buildings continue to house small businesses and some others have been renovated, the majority of the site remains vacant. Rep. McGovern has been heavily involved in this project and has written several letters in support of the City's application for this funding. More information about the program can be found at HUD.gov "IES is ecstatic to have this opportunity to work with our partners to help deliver business results and clean technology to Worcester," said Vincent DeVito, Executive Director of the Institute of Energy and Sustainability.
11.16.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern has introduced a Constitutional amendment in the House of Representatives to repeal the recent Supreme Court ruling in Citizens United v. FEC and to restore the Founding Fathers' intent to grant rights to people, not corporation share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN INTRODUCES CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT TO RESTORE ‘PEOPLE'S RIGHTS' U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern has introduced a Constitutional amendment in the House of Representatives to repeal the recent Supreme Court ruling in Citizens United v. FEC and to restore the Founding Fathers' intent to grant rights to people, not corporations. The legislation, H.J. Res 88, is intended to -clarify the authority of Congress and the States to regulate corporations, limited liability companies or other corporate entities established by the laws of any state, the United States, or any foreign state.- -As any high school civics student knows, the first three words of the preamble to the Constitution are ‘We the People,' Rep. McGovern said. -Corporations are not people. They do not breathe. They do not have children. They do not die in war. They are artificial entities which we the people create and, as such, we govern them, not the other way around.- -The Citizens United ruling,- McGovern continued, -marks the most extreme extension of a corporate rights doctrine which has eroded our First Amendment and our Constitution. Now is the time for a 28th Amendment that lifts up the promise of American self-government: of, for, and by the people.- The Citizens United case effectively reversed decades of precedent recognizing the authority of the people to regulate corporate spending in our elections. But the consequences of the case are not just limited to campaign finance issues. The newfound -Corporate Rights- movement that seeks to give corporations the same rights as people in any situation has been making troubling gains. Recently, a federal judge blocked the Food and Drug Administration from requiring tobacco companies to place graphic warning labels on cigarette packages, arguing that cigarette makers had the right to free speech. Rep. McGovern's amendment also clearly protects the people's rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free exercise of religion and freedom of association. -We need to have a serious, thoughtful debate in this country about this important issue,- Rep. McGovern said. -I hope that my amendment will begin to spur that debate.- The text of Rep. McGovern's amendment is attached.
11.15.2011	Representatives from Community, Migrant, Public Housing, and Homeless Health Centers in Worcester delivered approximately 1500 tongue depressors, signed by patients over the course of less than a week, as a symbol of the importance of community health centers. The depressors accompanied a petition calling for Congress and the President to oppose cuts in the Medicaid program, and increase Health Centers' funding. The text of the full petition is below: TO: The PRESIDENT and CONGRESS of the United States: Senator John Kerry Congressman James P. McGovern Community, Migrant, Public Housing, and Homeless Health Centers like Family Health Center of Worcester are currently the family doctor and health care home for nearly 23 million people in nearly 8,000 medically-underserved communities across the country. Yet, there are still 60 million people, including many with insurance who still do not have access to a regular source of health care. 37% of all health center patients; some 8.5 million people are covered by Medicaid. Health Centers treat 14% of all Medicaid patients-and they do it for only 1% of total Medicaid spending. America's Health Centers' system of community-based health care homes has had a remarkable record of success over more than 45 years in providing quality health care and saving the entire health care system money. Health Centers like Family Health Center of Worcester are a necessary part of solving America's health care crisis. Therefore, we who have signed these tongue depressors as a symbol of the importance of community based health care, calling on Congress and the President to, 1) Oppose cuts in the Medicaid program including efforts to reduce or eliminate fair payment protections for Health Centers; 2) Increase Health Centers' funding by $200 million in fiscal year 2012, toward the goal of allowing health centers to serve 40 million Americans by 2015
11.07.2011	Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn, Congressman Jerrold Nadler, Congressman John Conyers, Congressman Barney Frank, Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin, Congressman Jared Polis, Congressman David N. Cicilline and other House Democrats filed an Amicus Brief in the consolidated case of Massachusetts v. Dept. of Healthand Human Servicesand Gill vs. Office of Personnel Management. Pelosi and 132 House Members filed the brief today in this landmark case, which has reached the First Circuit Court of Appeals following a federal district court ruling that Section 3 of the so-called Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) is unconstitutional. Earlier this year, the President and Attorney General reached the same conclusion and announced that the Department of Justice would no longer defend the law in certain court cases. By a divided 3-2 vote of the House's Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group (BLAG) with Pelosi and Hoyer strongly objecting, Speaker John Boehner hired outside lawyers to defend DOMA in court at considerable taxpayer expense. The Democratic Members' brief, available here, provides a comprehensive explanation of how Section 3 of DOMA undermines Congress's legitimate interests. It rebuts the argument of the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group (BLAG) that Section 3 is a routine and cautious definitional exercise that warrants absolute deference from the courts. The brief argues that Congress did not act with caution, but hastily and without due consideration of the relevant issues. Section 3 cannot be viewed as a benign exercise of Congressional authority as the clear aim and effect of this law was to disapprove and disadvantage lesbians and gay men. As a result, and unlike most Acts of Congress, DOMA cannot be viewed as the rational result of impartial lawmaking. The brief makes it clear that the House is not united on this issue, that the BLAG lawyers do not speak for the entire institution, and that there is no legitimate federal interest in denying married gay and lesbian couples the legal security, rights and responsibilities that federal law provides to couples who are married under state law. Section 3 does not affect married heterosexual couples and their children, who are recognized regardless of DOMA. And this law affirmatively harms married gay and lesbian couples and their children. Pelosi and the main sponsors of this brief intend to participate in each of the cases where the BLAG has intervened as each case reaches the relevant federal court of appeals. Full text of Amicus Brief Summary of Amicus Brief: Heightened scrutiny applies: the brief agrees with Justice Department's position that lesbians and gay men are an identifiable minority group that lack sufficient political power to obtain the consistent and favorable treatment of lawmakers; as a result, they need the protection that heightened judicial scrutiny provides. o Heightened scrutiny is warranted for laws singling out lesbians and gay men for harm. Heightened scrutiny requires the government to show that there is a compelling interest served by Section 3 and that it is tailored to meet that interest, and even BLAG seems to concede that they lose under this standard. o Congress's treatment of gay men and lesbians illustrates that this group has been unable to prevent harmful laws or achieve desired policy results that directly impact their lives. Even under rational basis review, Section 3 is unconstitutional. Section 3 does not achieve, but undermines, the actual interests served by the programs that take marital status into account and denying recognition to couples who already are married under state law does not rationally serve any of the reasons relied upon by Congress in 1996 or created in response to this litigation. o BLAG relies heavily on cases where Congress has engaged in relatively routine line-drawing (e.g., eligibility for FCC franchise licenses or uniform retirement age for railroad employees). In these cases, the courts understandably have shown extreme deference to Congress's policy choices as these choices do not reflect discrimination against an identifiable class of persons. o But the clearly stated purpose and effect of this law was to disapprove of and disadvantage lesbians and gay men; this distinguishes DOMA from a routine act of Congress. o Where, as here, Congress classifies persons, denying an entire class of citizens the rights that are afforded others, the Supreme Court has applied rational basis review to invalidate those laws. o None of the reasons provided by Congress in 1996 or created in response to litigation rationally serve a legitimate federal interest: 1. Denying recognition to couples already married under state law does not further an interest in -procreation and responsible child-rearing.- DOMA does not prevent gay and lesbian couples from marrying and an estimated 132,00 couples have now done so, with many of these couples raising children together. There is no logical connection between the denial of federal recognition to these gay and lesbian couples, who already are married, and the marital or parenting behavior of different-sex couples. It is nonsensical to claim that congress needs to or should harm these families in order to benefit others, particularly as those families receive federal recognition regardless of DOMA. 2. While Congress has a legitimate interest in the welfare of children, Section 3 does not serve that interest. Children of married heterosexual couples are not affected by this law, and Section 3 actually undermines legitimate child welfare interests by harming children of married lesbian and gay couples. Congress should maximize the stability and security of these children, just as it does for children of married different-sex couples, by recognizing and respecting their parents' lawful marriages. 3. Section 3 does not protect, but undercuts, state sovereignty. Section 3 prevents states that now allow lesbian and gay couples to marry from ensuring these states and the federal government treat these couples the same as other married couples. 4. Section 3 does not preserve scarce resources. The government's own analysis has proved otherwise and, in any event, saving money cannot justify imposing harm on one class of citizens. 5. Ensuring -consistency- in federal treatment of marital status cannot justify treating this class of married citizens as unmarried for all federal purposes. There have been non-trivial differences in state marriage laws throughout our Nation's history, and the federal government has proven capable of handling those differences. It is not credible to claim that this is now an interest only when it comes to the treatment of married lesbian and gay couples. Married same-sex and different-sex couples are similarly situated with regard to federal marriage-based benefits, and the Constitution requires Congress to treat them with equal regard. Additional Background: In 1996 when DOMA was enacted, lesbians and gay men could not marry anywhere in the world. At that time, Congress acted with regrettable haste and without respect for its longstanding practice of respecting state marriages for purposes of federal law. That practice had served Congress interests in promoting stability and security for American families; it was a mistake to abandon it. Congress has no legitimate federal interest that is rationally served by treating married gay and lesbian couples as unmarried for all federal purposes. Section 3 is unconstitutional and should be struck down.
11.07.2011	-I share the concern and frustration felt by the thousands of people who lost power in the recent storm. Clearly, they have questions and they deserve answers. I know the Attorney General has begun an investigation, and I look forward to seeing the results of her work.-
11.03.2011	
11.01.2011	Massachusetts Delegation Calls for Federal Disaster Relief in Aftermath of Historic October Snowstorm All 12 members of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation have signed a letter to President Obama in support of Governor Deval Patrick's request for an emergency declaration for Massachusetts as a result of major damage caused by the historic October snowstorm. The storm contributed to the deaths of at least five individuals and power is out in more than 200 cities and towns throughout the state. Below is the text of the letter: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to you in strong support of Governor Deval Patrick's request for an emergency declaration for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a result of major damage caused by severe weather across many areas of the state. The magnitude, scope and severity of the storm that began on October 29th and ended on October 30, 2011 are beyond the response capabilities of the Commonwealth and affected local governments. Accordingly, we are seeking the approval of Governor Patrick's request for Federal Assistance, Category B, including direct Federal assistance for the counties of Berkshire, Essex, Franklin, Hampden, Hampshire, Middlesex, Norfolk and Worcester. This extraordinary storm produced more than 30 inches of heavy, wet snow and generated storm force winds of up to 67 mph. The storm's impact was exacerbated by the fact that leaves are still on the trees, collecting snow and weight, and as a result, scores of trees were toppled by the storm, pulling down power lines and leaving more than half a million state residents without power. Approximately 43,000 of these outages have been suffered by municipal power companies. More than 48 towns have approximately 90 percent or more of their homes without power, with an additional 48 towns with approximately 50 percent of their homes without power. A total of 121 communities are without power in approximately 25 percent of their homes. The outages are expected to last for take days, and in some cases, more than a week as approximately 1,500 utility crews work as quickly as possible to restore power while dealing with blocked roads strewn with debris. The storm contributed to the deaths of at least five individuals. The Governor has activated the National Guard to clear trees in 30 communities, and the Massachusetts Department of Conservation & Recreation has 11 crews clearing trees with an additional 10 crews to be assigned. Despite these efforts, significant road closures persist in many communities, including 140 roads closed in the City of Springfield and dozens of roads closed in the City of Westfield. Due to fallen power lines, broken branches, and power outages throughout the Town of Lexington, residents have been forced to stay indoors for days after the storm. This storm arrived while parts of western parts of Massachusetts are still recovering from Hurricane Irene in late August and a destructive tornado in early June. Since the beginning of this year, three federal disasters have been declared in Massachusetts, including a hurricane and tornadoes. The Massachusetts Congressional Delegation respectfully requests an emergency declaration for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a result of the severe storm of October 29th and October 30, 2011 under the provisions of Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. We strongly support Governor Patrick's request for federal funding for this major disaster. ###
10.26.2011	-For over 40 years, John Olver has served the people of Massachusetts with great distinction. The country is a better place because of his keen intellect, impeccable integrity, and fierce commitment to economic and social justice. I am honored to call him my colleague, and proud to call him my friend. I look forward to working with him over the next year in Congress and will continue to champion those causes we both hold dear.-
10.25.2011	U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN -GLEANING- BILL U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-03) today announced that he has introduced bipartisan legislation to encourage the practice of gleaning. Gleaning involves ensuring that produce that is not initially harvested does not go to waste. The bill (H.R. 3177, the Hunger Relief Trucking Tax Credit Act), co-sponsored by U.S. Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), would create a 25 cent tax credit for each mile that food is transported for a charity by a donated truck and driver for hunger relief efforts. Rep. McGovern issued the following statement about the bill yesterday as part of National Food Day: -Mr. Speaker, today is National Food Day - a full day devoted to all aspects of the American food system: farms, industry, grocers, schools, and most importantly people. One stated goal of Food Day is to ‘expand access to food and alleviate hunger.' It's unconscionable that hunger continues to exist in America. Nearly 50 million Americans go hungry every year. Over 17 million - one third - of them are children. The sad truth is hunger is a reality in every community. There is not one part of America, not one Congressional district, that isn't touched by hunger. -In my own district, as in many others places in America, volunteers help to alleviate hunger. On Saturday, I joined children and their parents in gleaning apples. We picked fresh, healthy fruit from an orchard to be delivered to the local food bank. If not for these volunteers, the apples would go to waste. It's an inevitable part of farming - produce that isn't ripe or is missed in the initial harvest stays on the trees or in the fields - because going back for a second harvest is too costly. -At times, volunteering is costly too. Transporting gleaned food to the very people who rely on it takes time and fuel. And we're finding that the transportation costs are becoming a barrier to delivering gleaned food, and this fresh produce is left to rot in the fields instead of helping to feed hungry Americans. -That is why Representative Emerson and I introduced H.R. 3177, the Hunger Relief Trucking Tax Credit Act. This bill would encourage and reward individuals and businesses who haul gleaned food from one location to another within the U.S. Many trucking companies and individuals pay for transportation of this food out of their own pockets. The Hunger Relief Trucking Tax Credit Act would create a 25 cent tax credit for each mile that food is transported for a charity by a donated truck and driver for hunger relief efforts. This legislation will support those who are already transporting food donations and entice more companies to do so. We must make every effort to bring food to those who rely on it to feed themselves and their families.-
10.21.2011	-I applaud President Obama's decision to finally bring our significant military presence in Iraq to an end. The war in Iraq has cost us dearly - in lost lives, lost billions and lost standing in the world. It is past time to bring our brave troops home to their families - where they belong. Iraq's future must be determined by the Iraqi people. Our military and diplomatic personnel have performed heroically over the past eight years. They deserved - but rarely got - a policy from their government that was worthy of their sacrifice. And moving forward, I continue to urge the Administration to accelerate the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, so that we can put these misadventures behind us once and for all.-
10.20.2011	-Today the Libyan people, in their struggle to regain control over their own lives and destiny, have reason to celebrate. For the U.S., it is an important moment to reaffirm our commitment to work with Prime Minister Jabril and the Transitional Council to create a diverse and representative democracy, grounded in the rule of law and respect for the human rights of all Libyans. The U.S. and international community should make the billions in assets frozen during the recent civil conflict available so that the new Libyan government can rebuild communities, support those veterans and families injured in the war, and see to the needs of its people. The U.S. should also be engaged in helping to demobilize existing militias, secure the arms and arsenal of the previous regime, and secure and destroy the stockpiles of its most dangerous weapons.-
10.20.2011	Reps. Markey, LaTourette, McGovern, Larson, Welch Call For Immediate Release of Home Heating Funds With home heating fuel prices expected to rise this winter, bipartisan coalition of lawmakers sends letter to DHHS urging release of LIHEAP funding to help households prepare With the Department of Energy (DOE) reporting an increase in the price for most heating fuels this winter, Congressmen Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), Steven C. LaTourette (R-Ohio), John B. Larson (D-Conn.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) today sent a letter to the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) calling on the Department of Health and Human Services to immediately release as much LIHEAP funding as possible under the current continuing resolution which expires November 18, 2011. With continued uncertainty over the final FY2012 funding levels for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), release of these funds means states will have the opportunity to help those with greatest needs now. The DOE's Energy Information Agency projects average household home heating oil expenditures will increase eight percent and reach record highs this winter. The EIA also forecasts increases of three percent for consumers heating with natural gas and seven percent for those using propane. The National Energy Assistance Directors' Association anticipates 9.4 million households will seek assistance with their energy costs through the LIHEAP program this winter, up from 8.9 million last year. The funding level of $3.4 billion for LIHEAP in the draft House Labor HHS appropriations bill for the remainder of FY2012 would allow assistance for only seven million households. -New England winters are often severe, but with impending budget cuts to programs that serve the neediest, including LIHEAP, this could be an historically harsh winter,- said Rep. Markey.-Releasing LIHEAP funds now will mean that households can plan for heating and eating this winter and during these tough economic times. We also must ensure that LIHEAP remains fully funded for the next fiscal year, as millions of American families continue to struggle to make ends meet. As we debate next year's budget and the Super Committee continues its work, we need to ensure full funding for this vital program is included while pressing for continued action to help American families. -LIHEAP is absolutely essential to helping families stay warm in the winter,- said Rep. McGovern. -It's a program that works and that deserves adequate funding.- -I sincerely hope that any existing heating funds will be released as soon as possible to states so struggling families can heat their homes while Washington finishes the budget process,- said Rep. LaTourette. -As we approach another harsh New England winter it is imperative that we make sure that those in our community who need energy assistance the most are not left out in the cold,- said Rep. Larson.-The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) has played a major role in ensuring that low-income families are able to meet their home energy needs for years and, at a time when so many are still suffering from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, we expect the demand to once again be high. I strongly urge Secretary Sebelius and the Obama administration to release as much LIHEAP funding as possible, as quickly as possible so that nobody in our community goes without the energy assistance they need.- -Even in good economic times, LIHEAP is a critical lifeline for countless Vermonters,- said Rep. Welch.-Now, with wages stagnate, a tough economy, rising fuel prices and Vermonters struggling to recover from Tropical Storm Irene, it is even more critical. Winter is upon us in the northeast and we need to get the money to those who need it now.- A copy of the letter to DHHS can be found HERE.
10.17.2011	Fortenberry, McGovern Comment on White House LRA Announcement Congressman Jeff Fortenberry and Congressman Jim McGovern today commented on the announcement from the White House this morning concerning the Department of Defense's new effort to combat the Lord's Resistance Army in central Africa. -Through over 20 years of civil war, the brutal insurgency has created a humanitarian crisis that has displaced over 1.5 million people in one of the world's most difficult ungoverned spaces,- said Fortenberry. -Tens of thousands of children have been abducted, and many forced into child soldiering or sex slavery. The steps being taken by the Department of Defense today may help save innocent lives and begin to bring the LRA to justice for the immense human tragedy that has fallen across central Africa at its hands.- -I'm very pleased with today's announcement,- said McGovern. -For far too long, innocents have suffered at the hands of the LRA. I also continue to call on the Administration to ensure the non-military assistance called for under the Comprehensive Strategy is provided for civilian protection; assistance for victims and communities of LRA-violence, especially children and women; and recovery and reconstruction." --- TEXT OF A LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT TO THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES AND THE PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE OF THE SENATE - October 14, 2011 Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:) For more than two decades, the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) has murdered, raped, and kidnapped tens of thousands of men, women, and children in central Africa. The LRA continues to commit atrocities across the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and South Sudan that have a disproportionate impact on regional security. Since 2008, the United States has supported regional military efforts to pursue the LRA and protect local communities. Even with some limited U.S. assistance, however, regional military efforts have thus far been unsuccessful in removing LRA leader Joseph Kony or his top commanders from the battlefield. In the Lord's Resistance Army Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009, Public Law 111-172, enacted May 24, 2010, the Congress also expressed support for increased, comprehensive U.S. efforts to help mitigate and eliminate the threat posed by the LRA to civilians and regional stability. In furtherance of the Congress's stated policy, I have authorized a small number of combat-equipped U.S. forces to deploy to central Africa to provide assistance to regional forces that are working toward the removal of Joseph Kony from the battlefield. I believe that deploying these U.S. Armed Forces furthers U.S. national security interests and foreign policy and will be a significant contribution toward counter-LRA efforts in central Africa. --- Press Statement Victoria Nuland Department Spokesperson, Office of the Spokesperson Washington, DC October 14, 2011 The United States condemns the continued atrocities and abductions committed by the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) across central Africa. We remain committed to supporting our regional partners' efforts to mitigate and eliminate the threat to civilians and regional stability posed by the LRA. Since 2008, the United States has provided over $40 million in critical logistical support, equipment and training to enhance counter-LRA operations by regional militaries. We continue to join regional governments in calling on LRA fighters to peacefully disarm and return home. With the consent of the Government of Uganda, and as notified to Congress, the United States has sent a small number of U.S. military advisors to the region to assist the forces that are pursuing the LRA and seeking to bring top commanders to justice. These advisors will work with our regional partners and the African Union in the field to strengthen information-sharing, enhance coordination and planning, and improve the overall effectiveness of military operations and the protection of civilians. These advisors will not engage LRA forces unless necessary for self-defense. This is one component of an ongoing, comprehensive U.S. strategy to address the LRA threat, in accordance with the LRA Disarmament and Northern Uganda Act signed into law in 2011. This strategy includes efforts to help increase the protection of civilians, encourage and facilitate defections of lower-level LRA fighters, and provide continued humanitarian relief.
10.14.2011	In a letter co-signed by 126 of his Democratic colleagues, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern called on the Super Committee to protect anti-poverty and anti-hunger programs. A copy of the letter can be seen at the link below:
10.14.2011	Bill Introduced in U.S. House of Representatives to Establish New National Park Unit in Blackstone River Valley Legislation Would Help Preserve, Protect and Interpret Nationally Significant Resources and Promote Educational & Recreational Experiences in RI and MA Advancing efforts to preserve, protect, and interpret nationally significant resources throughout the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor, promote economic development opportunities, and enhance historic and natural resources of the Blackstone Valley, U.S. Representative David Cicilline (D-RI), along with co-sponsors Richard E. Neal (D-MA), James McGovern (D-MA), and James Langevin (D-RI), introduced legislation to create the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park. This legislation was also introduced in the Senate today by U.S. Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), John Kerry (D-MA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Scott Brown (R-MA). Spanning from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI, the Blackstone River Valley is the Birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution. The Valley's beauty and history embodies a landscape rich in natural, historic, and cultural treasures. If enacted, the legislation introduced today would help preserve these icons of industry, environment, and history for generations to come. -I am proud to introduce legislation that will create a new national park unit within the Blackstone River Valley, ensuring the protection and promotion of this vital historical, environmental, and educational resource - all while helping to promote our local economies,- said Rep. Cicilline. -The Valley embodies and unites two important pieces of our past and our future - that of industry and environment. For generations men, women, and children have come to this place to enjoy the region's natural beauty and learn of the revolution that propelled our nation's economy - and this legislation will help preserve these experiences for years to come.- "For many years, I have been an enthusiastic and outspoken supporter of the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor. The corridor is a special place that celebrates the region's history, heritage and culture. It is also a magnificent natural resource that is enjoyed by thousands of people each year. I visited Lookout Rock in Northbridge this week and strongly support the bipartisan effort in Congress to make the corridor part of the National Park System," said Congressman Richard E. Neal (D-MA). -Creating a national park in the Blackstone Valley would be a tremendous boost to our local economy,- Rep. McGovern said. -As the birthplace of the American Industrial Revolution, the Valley holds a special place in our history - and our future. I'm very pleased to be a co-sponsor of this legislation.- -The Blackstone Valley Corridor, home to the industrial revolution, has long been a source of pride for Rhode Island, but is also now recognized by the National Park Service for its historical significance. I look forward to the Corridor's inclusion in the National Park System to preserve the historical sites that shaped our nation and to encourage more Americans from across the country to visit and tour Rhode Island,- said Congressman James Langevin (D-RI). Established by Congress in November 1986, the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor now includes all or part of twenty-four communities extending from Worcester, MA to Providence, RI. The Corridor contains approximately 400,000 acres of land in total. In July of this year, the National Park Service released a Special Resource Study for the purpose of determining whether the resources evaluated in the Heritage Corridor meet the criteria for inclusion as a unit of the National Park System. The study was completed following extensive input from local stakeholders, the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Commission, National Park Service staff, and historians. Drawing from the Special Resource Study, the legislation introduced today would establish a new unit of the National Park System to be known as the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park. The Park would be comprised of sites and districts in both Rhode Island and Massachusetts including the Blackstone River and its tributaries; the Blackstone Canal; the non-contiguous nationally significant historic districts of Old Slater Mill in Pawtucket; the villages of Slatersville (in North Smithfield) and Ashton (in Cumberland) Rhode Island; and Whitinsville and Hopedale in Massachusetts.
10.13.2011	M. Chairman, the Colombia FTA is bad for American workers; bad for jobs; and bad for Colombian workers, small farmers and human rights defenders. share: f t James P. McGovern (MA) H.R. 3078, the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement Tuesday, October 11, 2011 I thank the gentleman, Rep. Levin, for his tremendous leadership on behalf of workers in America and Colombia. M. Chairman, the Colombia FTA is bad for American workers; bad for jobs; and bad for Colombian workers, small farmers and human rights defenders. Colombia is still a country in conflict that affects thousands every year. We know Colombia is the most dangerous place in the world to be a trade unionist. But it also suffers from over 4 million internally displaced, second only to Sudan. Over a million Colombians are refugees in neighboring countries. They are fleeing terrifying, crippling violence from paramilitaries, guerrillas, and even Colombia's own army. And after the people leave, drug traffickers, criminals, and wealthy interests come in and take over. This FTA will only increase that vicious cycle. Nearly every study done asserts that the FTA will push even more small farmers off their land. They will either be forced to join the ranks of the displaced; grow coca; or join the guerrillas or paramilitaries just to feed their families. They won't be buying American goods, M. Chairman! And when Colombian workers have no rights, then there's no level playing field for American workers. And that costs jobs. This FTA is set up to help the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. It's the last thing Colombia's workers, farmers and human rights defenders need. Finally, M. Chairman, let me ask my colleagues in this Chamber, do human rights matter anymore? If so, we should not be debating this FTA today. We should be waiting until we see real, honest-to-goodness results on the ground in terms of improvements of human rights. When it comes to human rights, M. Chairman, the United States of America should not be a cheap date. We should stand firm, and we should be unabashed in our support for human rights. Vote NO on the Colombia FTA.
10.06.2011	Wyden and McGovern Introduce Resolutions Blocking Arms Sale to Bahrain U.S. is set to sell $53 million in weaponry to regime violently suppressing protests. As the Arab Spring spread across the Arab world, ordinary citizens in the Kingdom of Bahrain began to rise up and demand political and economic rights from their government. The ruling family, members of a powerful Sunni minority, responded through violent suppression of dissent - jailing and sometimes killing those who spoke out against the regime and anyone who aided them. Today, U.S. Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and U.S. Representative James McGovern (D-Mass.) have introduced resolutions in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to prevent the U.S. government from completing the planned sale of weapons to the Kingdom of Bahrain until meaningful steps are taken to improve human rights in the Middle Eastern country. -Selling weapons to a regime that is violently suppressing peaceful civil dissent and violating human rights is antithetical to our foreign policy goals and the principle of basic rights for all that the U.S. has worked hard to promote,-Wyden said. -The Arab Spring has encouraged the citizens of Bahrain to seek those same rights from their government and the U.S. should not reward a regime that actively suppresses its people. This resolution will withhold the sale of arms to Bahrain until the ruling family shows a real commitment to human rights.- -Human rights ought to matter in our foreign and military policy,-McGovern said. -Supporting regimes that violate the basic rights of their people is not just morally wrong - it's also not in our national security interests. Now is not the time to sell weapons to Bahrain.- The United States is preparing to fulfill a planned sale of $53 million in weaponry to the Kingdom of Bahrain. The sale will includes more than 44 armored Humvees and 300 missiles, 50 of which have bunker busting capability. The notice of the sale was officially reported to Congress on September 14, triggering a 30 day period during which Congress can pass a resolution opposing the sale. According to independent human rights organizations, the Kingdom of Bahrain has responded to the Arab Spring movement by violently suppressing activists - arresting and sometimes killing - anyone who dissents from the government's rule or aids those who do. The resolutions introduced in both the House and the Senate today will block the sale of these weapons to the Kingdom of Bahrain until specific human rights criteria are met. To read a copy of the resolution click here.
10.05.2011	-I find it refreshing that people are taking to the streets in peaceful protests. People are fed up - as they should be - with the reckless greed on Wall Street. I hope the news media give these protests as much attention as they have given the Tea Party.-
10.05.2011	Enough is enough. Get out of Afghanistan. The costs in blood and treasure have been too high. Ten years is more than enough. After ten years, it's time to come home. share: f t 10 LONG, COSTLY, BLOODY YEARS OF WAR IN AFGHANISTAN: THE COSTS ARE TOO HIGH Madame Speaker, on Sunday, newspapers across the country reported that the total number of U.S. military deaths in Afghanistan since 2001 is 1,780. This tally may be slightly incomplete because of lags in reporting. 1,780 servicemen and women, M. Speaker. Husbands, fathers, wives and mothers. Sons and daughters, brothers and sisters. Holes created in families and communities that can never be filled, losses that will be felt for a generation or more. Saturday began the new fiscal year, Mr. Speaker - Fiscal Year 2012. According to the Congressional Research Service, the estimated war funding for Iraq and Afghanistan since 2001 through Fiscal Year 2011 is 1.283 Trillion Dollars. $443 Billion of that has been spent in Afghanistan. For Fiscal Year 2012, which began on Saturday, we will spend another $113.7 billion in Afghanistan. By this time next year, our total spending in Afghanistan will be $557.1 Billion - or over half a trillion dollars. And when I say -spend,- Madame Speaker, I really mean -borrow.- Because from Day One of the Afghanistan War - and the Iraq War for that matter - we have not paid for these wars. We have borrowed nearly every single penny of that money, put it on the national credit card, let it rack up over a quarter of our cumulative deficit, helped explode our debt year after year for a decade. There has only been one other time in the history of the United States that a war was financed entirely through borrowing, Mr. Speaker, without raising taxes - and that was when the Colonies borrowed from France during the Revolutionary War. I know lots of Members in this House believe in the Tea Party, but that's just stupid economics. Even if we were to leave Afghanistan and Iraq tomorrow, our war debt will continue for decades. Future bills will include such things as caring for our military veterans and providing them the benefits they have earned through their service. It will require replacing military equipment, rebuilding our armed forces and paying interest on the trillions we have borrowed for these wars. These costs are significant. Madame Speaker, this Friday, October 7th, marks the 10th Anniversary of U.S. military operations in Afghanistan. Ten years, M. Speaker. Ten years of support for a corrupt government. Ten years of sacrificing our brave uniformed men and women. Ten years of borrowing money we never had. This war is no longer about going after al-Qaeda, which I voted to do. Osama bin Laden is dead. Instead, we're now bogged down in a seemingly endless occupation in support of a corrupt, incompetent Karzai government. This is not what I voted for. And the human and financial costs of the war in Afghanistan go on and on. Not just on the battlefields of Afghanistan, but in Veterans Hospitals and counseling clinics around the country - another $8.4 billion to care for our veterans, wounded in both body and soul. We continue to struggle with soaring post-traumatic stress and suicide rates among our soldiers and our veterans. Their impacts are devastating on families, friends, colleagues and military buddies. It's hard to explain how we could borrow and spend so freely, so casually, while our men and women bled in the plains and mountains of Afghanistan. But now we have to face the consequences of that lack of accountability, that lack of responsible governance. When the Super-Committee makes its decisions on how to handle the deficit and the debt, I say ending the wars as rapidly as possible must be the first item on the table. I also say that from this point forward, the wars must be paid for - no more -emergency- funding. No more -overseas contingency funds- that get a free pass from responsible budgeting. I believe President Obama has to bring this to the negotiations and the House and Senate members of the Super-Committee have to step up to the plate and end these wars. Now. They have undermined our economy and our security. Ten years into the Afghanistan War, the violence shows no sign of abating, the Karzai government shows little interest in cleaning up corruption, and no one is interested in the kind of region-wide negotiations required to bring stability and security to all parties. So I say, enough is enough, Madame Speaker. Get out of Afghanistan. The costs in blood and treasure have been too high. Ten years is more than enough. After ten years, it's time to come home.
10.03.2011	The Honorable David Dreier Chairman Committee on Rules H-312 The Capitol U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Dreier: Creating jobs and revitalizing the economy is the number one priority facing this Congress and the American people. With nearly 14 million Americans needing our help, we cannot delay. We must come together in a bipartisan effort to get Americans back to work today. Neither party can do it alone- we must put aside our differences and act on legislation together to create jobs now. The President has submitted his detailed proposal for job creation, which we hope the committees of jurisdiction will begin considering immediately. Also, the new Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction is beginning its work, and we hope they will recognize the vital connection between creating jobs and reducing the deficit for the long term. The Rules Committee has an important role to play as well. Last week, our colleague, Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson, introduced three pieces of legislation to refocus the agenda of Congress where it should be - on the creation of jobs. All three of these bills are within our committee's jurisdiction. H.R. 2835, the -Joint Select Committee on Job Creation Act of 2011,-would establish a new joint select committee of Congress on job creation modeled on the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, with the same deadlines for legislative proposals and action. H.R. 2836, the -Job Creation and Economic Growth Act,- would amend the Budget Control Act to require the existing joint committee on the deficit to develop a job creation plan in addition to the deficit reduction proposal, with the same deadlines. H.R. 2837, the -Job Creation and Economic Growth Act,- would - like H.R. 2836 - amend the Budget Control Act to require the existing joint committee on the deficit to develop a job creation plan in addition to the deficit reduction proposal. It would also expand the joint committee to 16 members and create a job creation subcommittee. Chairman Larson has proposed three different options to begin the work of job creation in this Congress. Given the bipartisan spirit in which the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction has begun its work, there is little reason why similar approaches to address historic levels of unemployment should not receive the same support from the Rules Committee and every Member of Congress. The legislation before us asks a simple question- will we begin the process of job creation in this Congress, or will the Majority choose to avoid solving the most pressing issue of our time? We urge the Rules Committee to take quick action on the job creation legislation before our committee, and request that you schedule an original jurisdiction hearing and committee consideration of these bills immediately. Sincerely, Louise M. Slaughter James P. McGovern Alcee L. Hastings Jared Polis
09.28.2011	Joined by a range of federal and state officials, including USDA Deputy Secretary Kathleen Merrigan, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern hosted his 2011 throughout the 3rd Congressional District on September 27th and 28th, visiting 8 local farms and conducting casual conversations and a roundtable discussion with area farmers to discuss issues of concern to the agriculture community. -I learned a lot over the past two days. I'm thrilled that the farmers of my district welcomed us to their farms and shared with us the challenges that they face on a daily basis,- said McGovern. -Agriculture is a traditional backbone of our country, and we're lucky to have a strong local-farm culture in Massachusetts. Our local farmers are true American entrepreneurs. Farmers are job creators; they make important contributions to our local and national economy and feed our communities and our nation. We must do all we can at a federal level to work with and support local farms like those in the 3rd Congressional District." The farms visited included: Big Apple Farm/Wrentham http://thebigapplefarm.com/ 297 Arnold Street, Wrentham, MA Farmers Garden/Seekonk http://www.farmersgardencsa.com/ 140 Davis Street, Rehoboth, MA 4 Town Farm/Rehoboth http://4townfarm.com/ 90 George Street, Seekonk, MA Medway Community Farm/Medway http://medwaycommunityfarm.org/ 50 Winthrop Street, Medway, MA Arcadian Farm/Holliston http://www.arcadianfarms.com/ 200 Norfolk Street, Holliston, MA Tougas Family Farm/Northborough http://www.tougasfarm.com/ 234 Ball Street, Northborough, MA Davidian Family Farm/Northborough http://www.davidianbros.com/ 500 Church Street, Northborough, MA Olde Nourse Farm/Westborough http://oldenoursefarmgourmet.com/ 70 Nourse Street, Westborough, MA Heirloom Harvest/Westborough http://www.heirloomharvestcsa.com/ 30 Hopkinton Rd, Westborough, MA
09.27.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announces $500,000 grant for Becker College-hosted Massachusetts Digital Games Institute Building on the job-growth and economic development potential of the video game industry, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today announced a $500,000 Federal Grant for the Massachusetts Digital Games Institute (MassDiGI), hosted by Becker College.The grant is being administered through the U.S. Economic Development Administration's University Center Economic Development Program to develop regional economic development tools for practitioners that expand opportunity and create jobs. -Mass DiGI is a landmark opportunity for Massachusetts to build on our strengths and pursue long-term high-tech, innovation-economy job growth,- said Rep. McGovern. -This federal grant will allow the institute to take the next step in pursuing their vision for a collaborative effort between academia, private industry, and government. I'm excited to see the economic development impact that MassDiGI will cultivate over the coming years.- Becker College, home to nationally-ranked top ten digital game design program, has previously received grants totaling $50,000 from the Massachusetts Technology Collaborative's John Adams Innovation Institute, and has invested more than $150,000 in support of the institute to date. "MassDiGI is the result of a strong partnership our administration helped to develop across academia, government, and the private sector in support of the video and digital game industry, which has great potential for growth in regions across the Commonwealth," said Lieutenant Governor Timothy Murray. "We thank the Obama Administration and Congressman McGovern, a tremendous partner to this process, for this federal funding that will further leverage opportunities to advance entrepreneurship, academic success, and business growth for the state's digital and video game industry." Mass DiGI and Becker College also officially announced memorandums of understanding with 7 private video game and interactive media developers today. Under the terms of the agreements, the companies will provide resources and personnel in support of the Institute. The companies include: Roadhouse Interactive; Muzzy Lane Software; Turbine; Bare Tree Media; Tencent Boston; Simon & Schuster/Pimsleur Language Programs; and Vivox. MassDiGI is also working with Northeastern University's Creative Industries and WPI's IMGD programs to help develop these ideas and hopes to partner with them in the very near future. -This is really exciting. Talent is of critical importance to the Commonwealth's digital games sector and MassDiGI's work will make certain our graduates are the best in the world, - says Dave McCool, CEO, Muzzy Lane Software. Mass DiGI, announced in Spring 2011 by Lieutenant Governor Murray and Becker, is in the startup year of its long-term startup plan. In the start-up phase of MassDiGI, Becker College will host the institute and will also be the lead provider of resources and services supporting the institute. Since the launch in April, MassDiGI has hit several milestones, including presenting to the Massachusetts Creative Economy Council; delivering the keynote at the Greenfield Community College computer game workshop event; named to the shortlist of the UK Trade & Investment Go for the Gold competition; and the establishment of its first Board of Advisors. Confirmed advisors include President Robert E. Johnson, Becker College - chair; Ken Surdan, Turbine; Jeff Goodsill, Tencent Boston; Mike Cavaretta, MBBP and MIT EF NE Games SIG; Monty Sharma; President Gail Carberry, Quinsigamond Community College; Dean Karen Oates, WPI; and Gordon Bellamy, executive director, IGDA. -As chair of the MassDiGI Advisory Board, I am extremely pleased that the EDA selected our application to the University Center Program for funding. The grant resources will go a long way in assisting MassDiGI in providing technology-centered services that support the needs of the digital games industry in Massachusetts in order to create and retain jobs, start businesses and provide greater economic opportunities,- said Robert E. Johnson, PhD, president of Becker College. -From the get go, MassDiGI has received incredible backing from government, higher education and industry - and industry involvement is essential to achieving positive outcomes. EDA's University Center funding provides a solid base from which we can launch our innovative programs,- said Timothy Loew, executive director of MassDiGI.
09.26.2011	Kerry, Markey, McGovern, Lynch, Tsongas, Olver, Tierney: MA Community Colleges To Receive $20 Million for Jobs Training Senator John Kerry, along with Representatives Edward Markey, Jim McGovern, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, John Olver and John Tierney, today announced that 15 community colleges throughout Massachusetts will receive $20 million in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Labor's Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training program, to support a partnership between community colleges and employers to develop a state-wide jobs training program. The funding, awarded to Quinsigamond Community College on behalf of the Massachusetts Community Colleges' Consortium, would partner the 15 member colleges of the consortium with state and national leaders in the fields of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Information Technology, Health Care, Clean Energy, Advanced Manufacturing, and Financial Services and Entrepreneurship. Through these partnerships, the Consortium would develop comprehensive, accelerated training programs geared towards training adult learners, eligible under the TAA program, to transition into a new field. -This is a huge investment in Massachusetts' workers and our community colleges. We've been pushing for this outcome all along and Secretary Solis called with the heads-up today that we've gotten across the finish line,- said Sen. Kerry. -This will be a big boost to our state's competiveness and will help workers connect with the jobs they need. I'm grateful to Secretaries Solis and Duncan for supporting Massachusetts and empowering our folks to enter the workforce and hit the ground running.- "I congratulate the Massachusetts Community Colleges consortium, led by Quinsigamond Community College, on receiving this vital grant. This funding will prepare our workers for jobs in the high growth industries that Massachusetts excels at - life sciences, bio-technology and information technology,- said Rep. Markey.- The grant will help provide a seamless pathway to get our displaced workers retrained and back into the workforce faster, putting the Bay State economy in a better position to compete and our workers back on the job.- -High-quality job training is absolutely essential if we're going to successfully compete in the 21st Century economy,- said Rep. McGovern. -We must continue to do everything possible to help affected workers transition to new fields. I'm particularly proud of Quinsigamond Community College for their role as the lead applicant for this funding.- "In these challenging economic times, programs such as this will get people back to work, giving them the training and skills needed for new careers," said Rep. Lynch. -As a former Dean at a Community College, I know firsthand the critical role that Community Colleges play in helping students of all ages continue their education and chart new career paths,- said Rep. Tsongas. -This grant will enable Middlesex Community College in Lowell and Northern Essex Community College in Haverhill to provide those who have lost jobs in this difficult economy with new job skills in growing career fields and this is exactly the type of step we should be taking at this time.- -Massachusetts has some of the finest community colleges in the nation, and these institutions represent one of the greatest tools we have for revitalizing and growing our workforce,- said Rep. Olver. -This program will encourage and guide the next generation of workers into growing industries as our economy works toward recovery.- -Community colleges often play an essential role in the training of our nation's workforce,- said Rep. Tierney. -This funding will enable community colleges and employers to develop a state-wide job training program that will help Massachusetts residents obtain employment and strengthen our economy.- In April, Senator Kerry sent a letter to U.S. Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan to help secure funding for the project. This past year, Massachusetts Community Colleges have provided more than 23,000 individuals with training or retraining through workforce development courses and programs.
09.22.2011	Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen Edward Markey and Jim McGovern, today announced that Massachusetts will receive over $15.6 million in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The funds will be used to construct two intermodal transit centers and upgrade additional intermodal transit, commuter rail and ferry stations across the state. share: f t Kerry, Markey, McGovern: Mass. Receives $15.6 Mil to Build, Upgrade Transportation Centers Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen Edward Markey and Jim McGovern, today announced that Massachusetts will receive over $15.6 million in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The funds will be used to construct two intermodal transit centers and upgrade additional intermodal transit, commuter rail and ferry stations across the state. -This is a big investment in Massachusetts to upgrade infrastructure and create jobs,- said Sen. Kerry. "This vital federal funding for transportation infrastructure improvement projects will greatly benefit Massachusetts commuters, making public transportation safer and more convenient. This funding will also help grow our economy, helping create jobs as each of these projects progresses. I am pleased that Revere's Wonderland MBTA station will receive a significant boost in funding to complete necessary public transit enhancements,- said Rep. Markey "We must continue to invest in our infrastructure if we want to compete in the 21st Century. I'm very pleased that the Department is continuing to support the Attleboro Intermodal facility. This project will be good for commuters, good for the environment and -- most importantly, good for our economy,- said Rep. McGovern. The following projects will receive funding: South Weymouth Commuter Rail Station - Weymouth, MA Access Improvements and Enhancements $8,011,800.00 Wonderland Intermodal Transit - Revere, MA Improvement Project Construction $2,106,296.00 Salem Intermodal Station - Salem, MA Communications and Track Improvements $1,543,315.00 Hingham Marine Intermodal Station - Hingham, MA Construction of the Hingham Marine Intermodal Center $1,273,304.00 Auburndale Commuter Rail Station - Auburndale, MA Installation of Fiber Optic Cable $1,380,000.00 South Shore Ferry - Hingham, Hull, Quincy, MA Dock Improvements $926,696.00 Greater Attleboro-Taunton Regional Transit Authority - Attleboro, MA Construction of the Attleboro Intermodal Transportation Center $451,440.00
09.21.2011	U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (MA-3) announced today that Becker College has received a federal grant for $1,997,480 for programs designed to enhance the preparation of first-time, first-year students. share: f t U.S. Representative Jim McGovern announces $1,997,480 DOE Grant for Becker College Student Success Programs U.S. Representative Jim McGovern (MA-3) announced today that Becker College has received a federal grant for $1,997,480 for programs designed to enhance the preparation of first-time, first-year students. The grant, administered by the U.S. Department of Education under the Strengthening Institutions Program, is anticipated to be distributed over five years, $399,496 in the first-year budget cycle. -Becker College is doing laudable work preparing its students for long-term academic and real-world success,- said Rep. McGovern. -Their expanding student success and preparation programs will go a long way in meeting their mission of getting students ready for the global future, and I'm thrilled to see these federal funds make an immediate impact.- The grant will be used to fund Becker College's -From At-Risk to Success- program, a comprehensive and coordinated effort to better prepare enrolled students for academic success. The targeted programs include expanding dual enrollment with area high schools; increasing the number of foundational courses and first-year course assistants; technology to support course content; a more comprehensive -one-stop-center- for faculty advising, tutoring, and mentoring programs; and an expansion of Becker's -Living and Learning Communities,- where students in similar programs are housed together to take advantage of peer and supplementary academic support. -Becker College is ready to implement the Strengthening Institutions funding, which will go far in strengthening student success, and we believe in every student's potential for success,- said Robert E. Johnson, Ph.D., president of Becker College. -Representative McGovern has done much to strengthen education in Massachusetts, and this represents an important opportunity for Becker College to continue to deliver highly educated global citizens, able to rise to the top of their careers.-
09.14.2011	Senator John Kerry, Congressman Barney Frank and Congressman Jim McGovern today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded over $1.6 million to the Southeastern Regional Transit Authority (SRTA) for projects that will benefit Fall River, New Bedford and surrounding towns. share: f t Kerry, Frank and McGovern Announce Transportation Funds for Southeastern Regional Transit Senator John Kerry, Congressman Barney Frank and Congressman Jim McGovern today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded over $1.6 million to the Southeastern Regional Transit Authority (SRTA) for projects that will benefit Fall River, New Bedford and surrounding towns. The USDOT will provide $950,000 to help SRTA build a new bus terminal at 118 Fourth Street in Fall River. It will also provide $665,000 to purchase two new buses to replace vehicles that are over 16 years old. The funding is a result of legislative action on the part of the three Members of Congress. Frank and Kerry requested and championed federal appropriations for the Fall River bus terminal. McGovern, Kerry and Frank jointly secured funding for the additional buses for the SRTA fleet. -Good public transportation is important economically, environmentally and socially,- said Frank. -It provides an alternative to automobiles for people who are trying to save money or diminish environmental harm, and it provides essential transportation for people who don't drive. I'm very proud to have worked hard to get this funding. These earmarks are an example of why I am fighting to reduce overseas military spending so we can continue to meet these local needs within a framework of deficit reduction.- -These federal funds are very important to improving public transportation in Southeastern Massachusetts,- Rep. McGovern said. -Safe, reliable public transportation is essential for economic development. I especially look forward to the completion of the new bus terminal on Fourth Street.- -This investment means jobs and a better public transit system for commuters,- said Senator Kerry. -Our partnership with Federal leaders has enabled the City of Fall River to improve transportation for its citizens,- said Mayor William Flanagan. As the Mayor of the City I am committed to enhancing transportation and improving the quality of service for our riders.- -As we work to enhance bus transportation in the New Bedford region, funding for new equipment is greatly appreciated,- said Mayor Scott Lang. -On behalf of the citizens of New Bedford, I sincerely appreciate the efforts of Senator Kerry, Congressman Frank, and Congressman McGovern in securing the funding for these important transportation projects.- -SERTA is so grateful to our elected officials for helping to bring our terminal and buses into the 21st century and this money will go a long way toward making that transportation goal a reality,- said Arthur Frank, the General Counsel of SRTA.
09.09.2011	REMEMBER, REFLECT, RESOLVE Madame Speaker, Sunday is the 10th Anniversary of 9/11, the day the world changed. 207 names are remembered in the Boston Public Garden 9/11 Memorial. Six were my constituents: Lynn Goodchild; Christopher Zarba, Jr.; Linda George; Robin Kaplan; Dianne Snyder; and Tara Creamer. In those days, Tony Blair challenged the world to use the unity created by the attacks to create a -community of good.- To help the world's most vulnerable; those without schools, food, water or work with dignity. We should reflect on how well we have responded to that challenge. We need to resolve to do better and to do more to heal the wounds of the world. On the first Sunday after 9/11, at an ecumenical service in Worcester, I said our faith teaches us that Love is stronger than hate. I still believe that. Now, more than ever, I believe that is the legacy of 9/11 most deserving of our political will and attention.
09.08.2011	"M. Speaker, every year, the Department of Agriculture collects, analyzes and releases a report detailing the amount of domestic food insecurity. Yesterday, USDA released this report. Now, this may sound like a wonkish, policy driven report but it's one of the most important reports written and released by any federal agency. Simply, M. Speaker, this is a report about hunger in America. This country is going through very difficult economic times; the most difficult since the Great Depression. One of the results of this recession has been an increase in hunger. Families who have lost their jobs or seen their incomes reduced because of the economy have had a difficult time putting food on their tables. It's common to see families who once volunteered at or donated to local food banks and food pantries now stand in line for food from these same non-profit organizations. Unfortunately, these organizations have had difficulty meeting the demands they've faced over the past few years. The good news is that the new USDA report shows that fewer people were food insecure in 2010 than in 2009. The bad news is that there are still 48.8 million Americans who struggled to put food on their tables last year. Frankly, M. Speaker, these numbers are unacceptable. It's unconscionable that even one person in this country goes without food let alone 48.8 million people. It breaks my heart that 16.2 million of these hungry people are children. That's almost a quarter of the total food insecure population. M. Speaker, President Obama pledged to end childhood hunger by 2015. It's clear, barring some dramatic shifts in policy, that he's not going to achieve that goal. I regret that very much - so should every elected member of this Congress. While 48.8 million hungry Americans may seem like a daunting figure, it's important to realize that these figures would be much worse if it weren't for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. Formerly known as Food Stamps, SNAP is a true safety-net program that helps low-income individuals and families buy groceries. The added benefit of SNAP is that it is also an economic stimulus that benefits local economies. It's a simple concept - for every SNAP dollar spent, $1.84 goes into the economy. Despite what SNAP critics may claim, SNAP prevented millions of Americans from going without food. Without a doubt, yesterday's food insecurity numbers would have been much worse if it weren't for SNAP. Hunger is a political condition; we have the means to solve hunger if we muster the political will to do so. SNAP is a proven program, one that prevents hunger while stimulating the economy. It's for both the moral reason and the economic reason that any deficit reduction proposal considered by the Select Committee on Deficit Reduction - the so-called Super Committee - must not cut SNAP or do anything that increases hunger and poverty. Cutting SNAP or other similar anti-hunger programs will increase hunger, an action that is morally indefensible. That's why I will be circulating a letter urging the twelve members of the Select Committee not toapprove any deficit reduction policies that will increase hunger or poverty in this country. I urge my colleagues - Republican and Democrat - to join me on this important letter. A responsibility of government is to protect the most vulnerable people in our country while doing everything we can to ensure that we pass on the strongest country possible to our children and our grandchildren. Cutting SNAP - the program that literally prevents millions of Americans from going hungry - is unconscionable and collectively, we must do everything we can to prevent any actions that increase hunger in America. These food insecurity numbers are sad and disheartening, but they are also a call to action. We can do better. We must do better. I yield back the balance of my time."
09.08.2011	U.S. Rep. McGovern called for better accounting and oversight of U.S. Aid to Colombia's Department of Administrative Services in a floor speech this morning, as well as in a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton cosigned by U.S. Rep. Janice Schakowsky. A copy of McGovern's remarks as prepared, and the letter are below. share: f t U.S. Rep. McGovern called for better accounting and oversight of U.S. Aid to Colombia's Department of Administrative Services in a floor speech this morning, as well as in a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton cosigned by U.S. Rep. Janice Schakowsky on Wednesday. A copy of McGovern's remarks as prepared and the letter are below. <iframe width="420" height="345" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/wEw_yLTuVZw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe> Prepared Remarks: Rule for the Consideration of H.R. 1892, the FY 2012 Intelligence Authorization Act M. Speaker, I would like to talk about a serious intelligence issue. For the past decade, Colombia's intelligence agency, the Department of Administrative Security - or the DAS - has engaged in illegal activities. Created to investigate organized crime, insurgents and drug traffickers, the DAS instead provided paramilitary death squads with the names of trade unionists to be murdered and carried out illegal surveillance on journalists, human rights defenders, political opposition leaders, and Supreme Court judges. American cash, equipment and training to help shut down drug-trafficking may have been used for spy operations, smear campaigns and threats against civil society leaders in Colombia. Several U.S. agencies aided the DAS - the State Department, Pentagon, DEA, CIA, and DIA - even as scandal after scandal after scandal became publicly known. It was only in April 2010 when U.S. Ambassador William Brownfield suspended U.S. aid to the DAS, diverting those resources to the Colombian National Police. Yesterday, Congresswoman Schakowsky and I sent a letter to the Secretaries of State and Defense, the U.S. Attorney General and the CIA Director asking them to provide Congress with a comprehensive report on all forms of U.S. aid to the DAS and to tell us what the DAS used the aid for. It's not too much to ask, Mr. Speaker. There has been a shocking lack of oversight over all the U.S. aid that poured into the DAS over the past decade. Getting to the bottom of this is what oversight is all about. Colombia is doing its part. The Attorney General is carrying out an aggressive investigation and series of prosecutions. Six former high-ranking intelligence officials have confessed to crimes. More than a dozen other operatives are on trial, with more still under investigation. President Santos has promised to dismantle the DAS and replace it with a new intelligence agency. In the meantime, the old structures still remain. Witnesses cooperating with the Attorney General find themselves and their families threatened; and human rights defenders, even now, are STILL under surveillance. Mr. Speaker, I'm sure that U.S. intentions were good. But I also believe that the DAS was generally -up to no good.- I find it impossible to understand how the State Department and embassy officials can say with certainty that absolutely no U.S. funding was ever used by the DAS for criminal purposes. Congress must insist on safeguards to ensure that no funding, equipment, training or intelligence-sharing with ANY Colombian intelligence agency is used for illegal surveillance or criminal activities, now and in the future. The Administration or Congress must prohibit any further funding for the DAS - including aid in the pipeline - until the Attorney General has completed all investigations and prosecutions, finds out who ordered these illegal activities, and President Santos has completely dismantled the current agency. I ask the Committee Chairman and Ranking Member to guarantee the Members of this House that no further aid will be provided to the DAS, and if that prohibition is not explicitly in this bill that they will work with the Senate to include it in the final conference report. Thank you M. Speaker - I yield back the balance of my time. Inserts for the Record: 9/7/11 Letter to Administration officials from Reps. McGovern and Schakowsky 9/2/11 Los Angeles Times Editorial: Colombia's Spreading Scandal
09.07.2011	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Edward Markey, Barney Frank, Richard E. Neal, John Olver, John Tierney, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and William Keating asked that heating assistance funding for families and seniors be maintained in the federal budget. share: f t MA Delegation to Leadership: Maintain Critical Funding for Low Income Heating Aid Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Edward Markey, Barney Frank, Richard E. Neal, John Olver, John Tierney, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and William Keating asked that heating assistance funding for families and seniors be maintained in the federal budget. In a letter to Senate and House Leadership, the Massachusetts delegation expressed their support for funding levels to be maintained for the Low Income Home Energy Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for the FY2012 budget. -We understand that you are all facing difficult decisions as we near the end of the fiscal year,- the members wrote. -However, we are writing today in support of the Low Income Home Energy Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and to express our sincere hope that level funding for this critical program can be maintained. Rising costs for home heating oil make it even more important that this vital program not be subject to draconian cuts.- The full text of the letter is below: September 7, 2011 The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Mitch McConnell Majority Leader Minority Leader United States Senate United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable John Boehner The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker Minority Leader House of Representatives House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Majority Leader Reid, Minority Leader McConnell, Speaker Boehner and Minority Leader Pelosi, We understand that you are all facing difficult decisions as we near the end of the fiscal year. However, we are writing today in support of the Low Income Home Energy Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and to express our sincere hope that level funding for this critical program can be maintained. Rising costs for home heating oil make it even more important that this vital program not be subject to draconian cuts. The Fiscal Year 2012 budget proposal submitted by the administration earlier this year cut LIHEAP by almost half to $2.57 billion. We respectfully request that as you negotiate any short-term Continuing Resolution or any final appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2012 you maintain full funding of LIHEAP at $5.1 billion. As we head into the fall, and winter seasons we must think about the neediest families, children and seniors. Recent reports show that Massachusetts will face record high oil prices - in August home heating oil was sold at an average of $3.73 a gallon in Massachusetts. That is 31 cents above the national average. In this weakened economy, too many Massachusetts families simply do not have the resources to cover this increase in cost - and no family should have to choose between food and heating their homes. We all understand that an increase in LIHEAP funding this year is likely impossible given the budget constraints included in the new law to extend the debt limit. We will do our part and continue to work as a delegation to try and find appropriate ways to help keep oil costs low and increase energy efficiency. By maintaining level funding we can at least avoid a catastrophic winter and ensure that many families get the support they need. We again request that you maintain you maintain full funding of LIHEAP at $5.1 billion in any short-term Continuing Resolution or appropriations bills for Fiscal Year 2012 and provide vital heating assistance to those in Massachusetts and across the country. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Scott P. Brown United States Senator United States Senator Edward J. Markey Barney Frank Member of Congress Member of Congress Richard E. Neal John W. Olver Member of Congress Member of Congress John F. Tierney James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress Michael Capuano Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Member of Congress Niki Tsongas William R. Keating Member of Congress Member of Congress
09.07.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (CT) and other colleagues today, cosponsoring legislation intended to give the nation's top priority - job creation and economic growth - the same path forward as deficit reduction in Congress. McGovern cosponsored three measures that the Super Committee may choose to pursue that would provide different paths to the same goal - reducing unemployment and addressing our debt: share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (CT) and other colleagues today, cosponsoring legislation intended to give the nation's top priority - job creation and economic growth - the same path forward as deficit reduction in Congress. McGovern cosponsored three measures that the Super Committee may choose to pursue that would provide different paths to the same goal - reducing unemployment and addressing our debt: A bill to amend the mission of the Deficit Super Committee, to require the Members to develop both a deficit reduction plan and a job creation plan. A bill to amend the mission of the Deficit Super Committee and add four additional members - one from each party in each chamber - to allow for the extra work being undertaken. A bill to create a parallel Super Committee to focus on jobs, under the same terms as the Deficit Super Committee.
08.31.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined Democratic colleagues in signing onto a letter by Rep. Cedric Richmond(LA-2) calling for there to be no budgetary offsets for emergency disaster funding. share: f t The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Eric Cantor Office of the Majority Leader H-329, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor, We write to urge you to reinstate Congress' longstanding approach to emergency funding for national disasters and abandon this new policy of requiring budgetary offsets before funding is approved. If this was the policy after Hurricane Katrina, survivors would have been waiting for months or even years for assistance. The federal government has been instrumental in helping Gulf Coast citizens with the hard work of rebuilding their communities. Make no mistake: The recovery of the Gulf Coast would have been impossible without federal investment. We must remember this lesson as we seek to address today's disasters— the Midwestern tornadoes, floods, and most recently, Hurricane Irene. As communities on the east coast contend with the considerable damage caused by Hurricane Irene, it is imperative that Congress responds swiftly to this disaster. We should make it clear to affected families that their government will be there to help—just as it has always helped American families after disasters. This session, you stated that Congress must cut the budgets of valuable federal programs to fund emergency relief. Reaching agreement on funding cuts is a contentious exercise, as evidenced earlier this year when our government was driven to the brink of shutdown and default. We have already seen the result of subjecting disaster funding to the politics of partisan budget cutting. The Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) budget is pushed to its limits. As a result, last weekend, FEMA announced a shift to -immediate needs funding- to focus on its response to Hurricane Irene and preserve what little disaster funding it has on hand. This announcement means new rebuilding projects will be delayed nationwide. When Congress is asked to provide supplemental funds to pay for Irene and other ongoing disaster response efforts, we must respond expeditiously. Time is of the essence. It would be irresponsible and heartless for this body to delay recovery projects while Members fight over cuts. Congress must put the needs of American disaster victims above its budget squabbles. We call on you to assure the American people that the federal government remains a committed partner in helping to restore communities in the wake of natural disasters. We strongly urge you to make it clear that budgetary offsets will not be required prior to emergency funding.
08.30.2011	"My thoughts go out to all of those affected by Hurricane Irene throughout the Third Congressional District, Massachusetts, and all of the East Coast, including those residents who remain without electricity. I will be working closely with federal, state, and local partners to ensure that recovery efforts in the district go as quickly and as smoothly as possible. -If I can be of any assistance, please contact any of my offices in the district or in DC.-
08.24.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA3) today announced that the City of Worcester Police Department will receive two grants totaling $252,537 in federal funding for law enforcement and public safety. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern Announces $252,537 in Federal Funding for WORCESTER Law Enforcement and Public Safety U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA3) today announced that the City of Worcester Police Department will receive two grants totaling $252,537 in federal funding for law enforcement and public safety. $177,285 is being awarded through the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program; $75,252 through the Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Grants Program, both administered by the U.S. Department of Justice. JAG program funds can be used for a variety of efforts such as hiring law enforcement officers; supporting drug and gang task forces; funding crime prevention and domestic violence programs; and supporting courts, corrections, treatment, and justice information sharing initiatives. The Coverdell program awards grants to states and units of local government to help improve the quality and timeliness of forensic science and medical examiner services. Among other things, funds may be used to eliminate a backlog in the analysis of forensic evidence and to train and employ forensic laboratory personnel, as needed, to eliminate such a backlog. Worcester will utilize the Byrne funding for police overtime compensation to attend community and neighborhood watch meetings and to participate in targeted prostitution stings. The Coverdell funding will be used to fund a forensic liaison between the Worcester Police, the Worcester County DA, and the State Police crime laboratory. -In this difficult economic climate, it is vital that cities like Worcester are able to maintain a focus on public safety,- Rep. McGovern said. -This federal assistance will enable the Worcester Police Department to continue emphasizing community and neighborhood efforts; enhance their presence in high-need areas, and improve their crime analysis capabilities by working closely with the Worcester DA and the Massachusetts State Police.- -Our City remains safe due to the great work of our Chief and the men and women of the Worcester Police Department. Their efforts are enhanced through solid partnerships across the spectrum. This grant award, thanks to Congressman McGovern's stewardship, is welcome news and a great example of this. These federal dollars will be put to work immediately within our successful neighborhood watch program and other initiatives to continue to build those partnerships and to keep our community safe,- said Worcester City Manager Michael O'Brien.
08.17.2011	Congressman James P. McGovern (D) Massachusetts announced today that BioMedical Research Models Inc (BRM) has been awarded a two year STTR grant from the National Institutes of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Diseases (NIAMS) totaling $571,610 ($429,584 year 1 & $142,026 year 2). share: f t Congressman James P. McGovern (D) Massachusetts announced today that BioMedical Research Models Inc (BRM) has been awarded a two year STTR grant from the National Institutes of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Diseases (NIAMS) totaling $571,610 ($429,584 year 1 & $142,026 year 2). The award will facilitate the ongoing collaboration between the Feinstein Institute and BRM to develop small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of lupus, otherwise known as Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). SLE affects multiple organs in ~ 2 million Americans with devastating impact on the skin, joints, kidney, and brain. Current therapeutic strategies for lupus are largely palliative or immune-suppressive with serious toxicities and no new drugs for SLE have been approved in decades. Thus, novel therapeutic approaches to lupus - particularly therapeutics that treat the underlying causes of the disease - are in great demand. The goals of the current proposal are to translate insights in the molecular mechanisms underlying SLE into the therapeutic arena. BRM will establish whether Feinstein's candidate lupus peptidomimetic small molecules possess valid drug-like properties to support preparation of a pre-investigational new drug package. The Principal Investigator for this STTR grant is Thomas Coleman Ph.D., currently the Chief Science Officer at the New York based Feinstein Institute. The Co-investigator based at BRM in Worcester, MA is Christian Grant, Ph.D, a Research Director. -This is a win-win for both an academic institute and for small business in Central Massachusetts," said Dr. Grant. Dennis Guberski, President of BMR Inc: -It's not just the grant, it's the business opportunities it presents. We added positions last quarter, and are looking to add more going forward.- "This highly competitive federal grant will allow BRM to expand on the cutting edge research they're doing here in Worcester to treat debilitating diseases, while spurring job growth.- said Congressman Jim McGovern. -BRM—which benefited from federal funding in 1997 as they began operations - is a prime example of how federal research funding continues to help spur job growth and economic development in our local biotech industry.- Biomedical Research Models, Inc. In 1996 (BRM), spun out of the 1996 University of Massachusetts Medical school and today is a biopharmaceutical company which employs 57 people in Worcester/Springfield, MA. BRM is dedicated to the discovery, development and commercialization of novel proprietary therapeutics. BRM is a profitable company with active research pipelines in the areas of 1) Diabetes (and its associated complications), 2) Rheumatoid arthritis 3) Multiple sclerosis and 4) Genital herpes. The Feinstein Institute: The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research is located on the campus of North Shore University Hospital. The Institute was created in 1999 to facilitate disease-oriented basic and clinical research within the Health System. The mission of the Institute is to understand the underlying biological processes of disease and to develop new and more effective therapies for patients. The North Shore LIJ Health System is the third largest non-sectarian healthcare entity in the United States. Through its connection to the Health System, the Institute bridges the gap between biomedical research and patient care, accessing hundreds of thousands of patients in the Health System's 13 hospitals, four long-term care facilities, three trauma centers, six home health agencies and dozens of outpatient facilities with more than 5,670 patient beds, serving a catchment population of 6.5 million people and annual inpatient discharges of more than 215,000.
08.12.2011	A group of 14 bipartisan Members of Congress, led by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA), today sent a letter to Secretary of State Clinton urging the Secretary to "take all possible steps" required to provide humanitarian assistance to families in the insecure areas of central and southern Somalia, including through NGOS and the U.N. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN LEADS 14 MEMBERS IN LETTER TO SECRETARY CLINTON ON AFRICAN FAMINE A group of 14 bipartisan Members of Congress, led by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA), today sent a letter to Secretary of State Clinton urging the Secretary to "take all possible steps" required to provide humanitarian assistance to families in the insecure areas of central and southern Somalia, including through NGOS and the U.N. The priority must be on saving lives. The group also commended preventive measures like the pre-disposition of food aid, investment in safety net programs in Ethiopia, and Feed the Future programs that have saved millions from famine who had been vulnerable in the past. A copy of the letter can be seen at the link below. The bipartisan group, many of whom had participated in briefings and hearings last week on the situation on the ground in the eastern Horn of Africa, includes (all titles and organizations for identification purposes only): James P. McGovern (D-MA) Co-Chair, House Hunger Caucus Co-Chair, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) Co-Chair, House Hunger Caucus Chairwoman, Subcommittee on Financial Services Appropriations Nita M. Lowey (D-NY) Ranking Member, Subcommittee on State/Foreign Operations Appropriations Frank R. Wolf (R-VA) Co-Chair, Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Chairman, Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Donald M. Payne (D-NJ) Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health and Human Rights Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ) Chairman, Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health and Human Rights Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT) Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Erik Paulsen (R-MN) Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) Ranking Member, House Budget Committee Joseph Crowley (D-NY) James P. Moran (D-VA) Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Interior and Environment Appropriations Edward J. Markey (D-MA) Ranking Member, Natural Resources Committee Michael M. Honda (D-CA) Ranking Member, Legislative Branch Appropriations
08.04.2011	Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairs James P. McGovern (MA) and Frank R. Wolf (VA) today endorsed President Obama's directive aimed at both preventing mass atrocities and prohibiting human rights violators from the privilege of entering the United States. share: f t Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairmen Strongly Endorse President Obama's Human Rights Initiative to Prevent Mass Atrocities and Prohibit Human Rights Violators from Entering the United States Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Co-Chairs James P. McGovern (MA) and Frank R. Wolf (VA) today endorsed President Obama's directive aimed at both preventing mass atrocities and prohibiting human rights violators from the privilege of entering the United States. Rep. McGovern declared, -I strongly agree with the President's statement that preventing mass atrocities is a core national security interest and a core moral responsibility. I've seen first-hand in places like East Timor, Darfur and eastern Chad what happens when people are in danger and the world fails to act. The President is right to elevate these critical human rights issues. I look forward to working with the Administration and my Congressional colleagues to support and enhance the President's goals of halting human rights violations before they occur and ensuring the United States reinforces its ‘no safe haven' policy against human rights violators and war criminals.- Rep. Frank Wolf stated, -The United States has a responsibility to prevent genocide. I am pleased to see the President taking proactive measures to ensure that the world's worst human rights violators are not given the opportunity to enter the United States. By elevating the concerns found by the board to senior levels, we can prevent future tragedies from occurring. We must not forget the tragic history of Rwanda and Darfur. The United States cannot continue to turn a blind eye to slaughter.- The bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission was established in the U.S. House of Representatives to educate Members of Congress on human rights issues and advocate on behalf of human rights defenders world-wide.
08.01.2011	There is something fundamentally wrong when a billionaire hedge fund manager pays a lower tax rate than his secretary; when Big Oil can make tens of billions in profits every quarter but still get sweetheart deals from the taxpayer; and when we are slashing funding for roads and bridges but allowing tax breaks for corporate jet owners to continue. share: f t Please find below the floor statement by Congressman McGovern in opposition to the budget deal. Mister Speaker, I did not come to Washington to dismantle the New Deal or the Great Society. I did not come here to force more people into poverty. I agree that we need to avoid default and to confront our long-term fiscal challenges. That's why on Saturday I voted in support of the Reid proposal, which would have reduced our debt by hundreds of billions of dollars. The bill before us is unfair in so many ways. It disproportionately places the burden of dealing with our debt issue on the backs of those who can least afford it, while it spares the wealthiest from contributing anything. There is something fundamentally wrong when a billionaire hedge fund manager pays a lower tax rate than his secretary; when Big Oil can make tens of billions in profits every quarter but still get sweetheart deals from the taxpayer; and when we are slashing funding for roads and bridges but allowing tax breaks for corporate jet owners to continue. And there are no new revenues in the bill before us today - only massive cuts in what is called -domestic discretionary spending.- But what does that actually mean? It means less investment in our transportation and infrastructure, in medical research, in education, in food safety. To put it simply, it means less jobs and higher unemployment at a time when millions of Americans are struggling to find work. And despite the rhetoric of its supporters, the bill puts Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid on the chopping block. We all know how we got into this mess: two huge tax cuts - mostly for the wealthy - that weren't paid for. Two wars that weren't paid for. A massive prescription drug program that wasn't paid for. There are certainly places to cut. Right now, we are borrowing $10 billion every single month for military operations in Afghanistan to prop up a corrupt and incompetent Karzai regime. But according to the Congressional Budget Office, the spending caps contained in this legislation do not apply to ending that misguided war. That makes no sense to me. The truth is that the best way to deal with our long term fiscal situation is to grow our economy. That means creating jobs and putting people back to work. This bill goes in exactly the opposite direction. I have 2 children, Mr. Speaker, who I love more than anything. And I don't want them to grow up in a country where the gap between the very rich and the poor grows wider and wider each year. We can do better, Mister Speaker. We must do better. And we can do so in a way that does not abandon the principles of economic justice and fairness that have made our Nation so great. I will vote ‘no' on this bill.
07.30.2011	Mr. Speaker, this process has become a joke. It is a disgrace. It's an insult to the American people. I would say to my friends on the other side of the aisle that now is the time to act like grownups. This is the time to put our country before your political party. This is the time put our country before the Tea Party. This is the time to do what's right. Today you are bringing up the latest version of the so-called Reid plan under, not only a closed rule but under the most restrictive process we have in the House, usually reserved for non-controversial bills. This is a $2 and half trillion bill brought up under the same process that you bring up bills naming post offices.- 20 minutes of debate; No amendments are allowed; we're not even allowed to offer a motion to recommit; to win you need a 2/3 supermajority. Under this process, your own bill would have failed. That's right, if your bill were brought up under this procedure, your bill would have lost. The only bill we should consider on the House floor is one that has been agreed to by the House and Senate leaders and the President of the United States. So why are we doing this today? Let's be honest, you're doing it to score some cheap political points. I would like to remind the Speaker of the House that he's the Speaker of not just the Republican Party - but that he's the Speaker of the whole House. Now is the time to bring us together - not tear us apart. Maybe the Reid bill is the one that can unite us - because it achieves tremendous savings without decimating Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security. But, Mr. Speaker, but to bring it up under this process is cynical and demeans the House of Representatives. I would say to the Republican leadership - enough political stunts. Our country is facing a terrible economic crisis - a crisis that you created and one that you can avoid. But we've run out of time. Now is the time for leadership - not bad political theater. Now is the time to behave like legislators. Please rise to the occasion. The Reid bill is not the bill I would have written; its not a truly balanced approach that I would have hoped for. There are no revenues in this bill. But I think it's the best approach that is on the table right now and I'm willing to compromise. So I will vote yes on this bill. I'm willing to put my country first. I reserve the balance of my time.
07.28.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern's opening and closing statements on the floor. share: f t I rise in strong opposition to this rule and to the underlying bill. M. Speaker, I keep expecting lion tamers and acrobats to appear on the House floor. Because this process, under this Republican leadership, has become a complete circus. The underlying Boehner plan should be called the -Republican Default Act.- This rule allows the Republican Leadership to bring a radical balanced budget amendment to the Constitution before the House, but right now we have NO IDEA what that amendment will look like. This is crazy. Our Founding Fathers spent weeks and weeks arguing over every clause, conjunction and comma in that Constitution. But today, my Republican friends treat it as just another excuse for a partisan press release. And why are they doing this, M. Speaker? It's simple - politics. The Speaker of the House made that clear in a radio interview. He argued that the reason that Republicans should support his radical plan to slash Medicare and Social Security and education and medical research is that, QUOTE, -Barack Obama hates it, Harry Reid hates it, Nancy Pelosi hates it.- And yesterday in a meeting of the Republican conference, their leadership tried to rally votes for this bill by playing a clip from the movie -The Town.- The quote they used - and I guess this was supposed to be inspirational, was this: -I need your help. I can't tell you what it is, you can never ask me about it later, and we're gonna hurt some people.- The problem is, M. Speaker, is that the people they're going to hurt are the senior citizens on Medicare and Social Security. They're going to hurt children who don't have enough to eat. They're going to hurt students trying to afford a college education. They're going to hurt the very people who can least afford to take the hit, all in the name of protecting tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. Their approach is reckless, wrong and unfair, and I urge my colleagues to vote against it. And I yield back the balance of my time. ---- M. Speaker, this bill does nothing to solve our long-term fiscal challenges. Because everybody here knows that this isn't going anywhere. Instead, it's a political stunt. Instead, it hurtles us closer and closer to a devastating default. For years, Presidents and Congresses of both parties have raised the debt ceiling, recognizing that endangering the full faith and credit of the United States would be a grave mistake. It's amazing to me how many Republicans I've heard who dismiss the potential of default as no big deal. No big deal? Tell that to the family who would have to pay higher interest rates on their mortgage, their car loan, their student loan. It would be a very big deal to them. Many of my friends on the other side of the aisle didn't just stand by as we created these massive deficits. They were active participants. They voted for two huge tax cuts that weren't paid for. Two wars that weren't paid for. A massive prescription drug program that wasn't paid for. And now, their solution is to punish the very Americans who can least afford it, all in the name of keeping their rich friends and special interests happy. The Boehner plan is unbalanced and unfair. It slashes programs like Social Security and Medicare that benefit the middle class and the poor. But the Republicans insist on protecting tax breaks for oil and gas companies. Just today, Exxon Mobil announced profits of $10.7 BILLION for the second quarter. Do they really need special tax breaks? The American people sure don't think so. Poll after poll show that the vast majority of our citizens prefer a balanced approach. Yes, we need to cut spending. Yes, we need to reform our government. But everybody needs to chip in, to do their part - including the very wealthy who have benefited the most. There are certainly places to save. How about ending wars that aren't paid for? Right now we borrow $10 billion dollars every month for military operations alone in Afghanistan to prop up a corrupt and incompetent Karzai government. How about ending wasteful subsidies to big agriculture companies? How about asking billionaire hedge fund managers to pay the same tax rates as their secretaries? The truth is that the best way to deal with our long term fiscal situation is to grow our economy. That means creating jobs and putting people back to work. That means investing in things like education and infrastructure and green technology and medical research. That's the kind of economic future the American people deserve. The Boehner default plan would take us in exactly the wrong direction, and I urge my colleagues to reject it. I reserve the balance of my time.
07.28.2011	Currently, some 11.5 million people across East Africa urgently need food aid, medical supplies and care. More than 130,000 Somali refugees have left their country for refugee camps along the borders of Ethiopia and Kenya. They arrive exhausted and physically depleted. News reports estimate that about 1300 Somali refugees arrive in northern Kenya every single day. They join already overcrowded camps, and stress the ability of the Kenyan government and humanitarian agencies to provide food, water, emergency care and shelter. share: f t Last week, the United Nations declared famine in Somalia and reported urgent needs in Ethiopia and Kenya. On our nightly TV news and daily papers, we are seeing the pictures of people dying, of children suffering extreme malnutrition, and mothers carrying their babies walking over a hundred miles in search of food and safe haven. Tens of thousands of people in Somalia have already died. The Horn of Africa is suffering a devastating drought, with this year being recorded in some locations as the driest or second driest year on record since 1951. The impact has been compounded by war, neglect and spiraling food prices. Currently, some 11.5 million people across East Africa urgently need food aid, medical supplies and care. More than 130,000 Somali refugees have left their country for refugee camps along the borders of Ethiopia and Kenya. They arrive exhausted and physically depleted. News reports estimate that about 1300 Somali refugees arrive in northern Kenya every single day. They join already overcrowded camps, and stress the ability of the Kenyan government and humanitarian agencies to provide food, water, emergency care and shelter. Working with local partners and NGOs such as Doctors Without Borders, Save the Children and Italian Aid, UNICEF will be vaccinating hundreds of thousands of children. Dehydrated and suffering from malnutrition, these children - especially those under the age of five - are particularly susceptible to the measles, polio, diarrhea and pneumonia. To date, in fiscal year 2011, the United States has provided over $450 million in humanitarian aid to the Horn of Africa through USAID's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance and the Food for Peace Program, along with refugee assistance from the State Department's Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration. But much more needs to be done. The next three to six months will be critical. The drought is expected to worsen, at least through the end of the year. And then we will wait to see what happens during the next cycle of rains. Will communities be able to recover? Will small farmers be able to plant new crops? Or will heavy rains produce floods that drive communities deeper into poverty? My colleagues need to understand, however, that the current crisis, terrible as it is, could have been much worse. There is good news amongst so much tragedy. The last time a drought of this magnitude hit Ethiopia, over 14 million people faced starvation. This time, about 4.5 million Ethiopians are in need of emergency aid. The difference? Since 2005, the United States and other donors have made significant investments in Ethiopia's Productive Safety Net Program. I saw first-hand several of these programs in 2007. They help small farmers and poor communities diversify the crops they planted, broaden their sources of income, create local markets, better manage their water resources, and increase the nutritional content of their own diets and those of their children. This has enabled over 7.5 million Ethiopians to withstand the worst effects of the current drought. These families and communities are NOT part of the 4.5 million Ethiopians who require urgent humanitarian aid. These programs work. They were models for Feed the Future, our current global program to promote sustainable agriculture, food security and nutrition. It's how you end global hunger, M. Speaker. It's the difference between needing to help rescue 4 million people rather than 14 million. It's also the difference between investing $6.00 per person each year so they become more food secure and resilient to disasters - or having to invest $250 per person to deliver emergency relief that only covers three to four months. It's the smart way to invest our development resources. This is why I'm so appalled by what happened yesterday in the mark-up of the State/Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill. Development, humanitarian, and disaster aid programs were all brutally cut. These cuts come on top of the Agricultural Appropriations Bill that devastated our emergency food aid programs. With the worst drought in 60 years hitting the Horn of Africa, these cuts amount to the U.S. turning its back on its own strategic interests and walking away from our international commitments. Instead, we need to increase our emergency response to the current crisis, ensure we have the resources to invest in long-term development, and continue our global leadership in ending hunger and famine once and for all. We need to do better, M. Speaker.
07.27.2011	Today, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined Reps. Ted Deutch (FL-19), Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), and Mark Critz (PA-12) and fifty-eight of their Democratic colleagues on a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to reject another payroll tax cut and instead consider alternative proposals that do not jeopardize Social Security's time-tested independent revenue stream. The bipartisan tax compromise passed last winter set a dangerous precedent by reducing employee contributions to Social Security and replenishing the Trust Fund with deficit spending from the general fund. Social Security was established with a dedicated revenue source to prohibit it from contributing to the budget deficit and to protect the retirement security of America's workers from politically motivated budgetary attacks. share: f t Washington, Jul 21 - Today, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern joined Reps. Ted Deutch (FL-19), Lloyd Doggett (TX-25), and Mark Critz (PA-12) and fifty-eight of their Democratic colleagues on a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to reject another payroll tax cut and instead consider alternative proposals that do not jeopardize Social Security's time-tested independent revenue stream. The bipartisan tax compromise passed last winter set a dangerous precedent by reducing employee contributions to Social Security and replenishing the Trust Fund with deficit spending from the general fund. Social Security was established with a dedicated revenue source to prohibit it from contributing to the budget deficit and to protect the retirement security of America's workers from politically motivated budgetary attacks. -We remain gravely concerned that yet another, unacceptable cut to Social Security's revenue stream appears to be on the table,- the members write to the President. -Enemies of Social Security reject valid proposals to give the same level of tax relief to the same Americans or American businesses without using the Social Security revenue stream and resultant general fund transfers… We are greatly concerned that a permanent extension of the 2011 payroll tax cut would double Social Security's long-range shortfall and make long-term solutions nearly impossible.- A copy of the letter is available here. Joining Reps. Deutch, Doggett, and Critz on the letter are Reps. Joe Baca (CA-43), Robert Brady (PA-01), Corrine Brown (FL-03), Andre Carson (IN-07), Judy Chu (CA-32), Hansen Clarke (MI-13), Yvette Clarke (NY-11), William Lacy Clay (MO-01), Steve Cohen (TN-09), John Conyers (MI-14), Rep. Elijah Cummings (MD-07), Danny Davis (IL-07), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Mike Doyle (PA-14), Donna Edwards (MD-04), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Sam Farr (CA-17), Bob Filner (CA-51), Barney Frank (MA-04), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), John Garamendi (CA-10), Gene Green (TX-29), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-07), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Alcee Hastings (FL-23), Maurice Hinchey (NY-22), Rush Holt (NJ-12), Jesse Jackson, JR. (IL-02), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Dennis Kucinich (OH-10), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Barbara Lee (CA-09), John Lewis (GA-05), Carolyn Maloney (NY-14), Edward Markey (MA-07), Jim McDermott (WA-07), Jim McGovern (MA-03), Mike Michaud (ME-02), George Miller (CA-07), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Jerrold Nadler (NY-28), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), John Olver (MA-01), Donald Payne (NJ-10), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bobby Rush (IL-01), Tim Ryan (OH-17), Gregorio Sablan (MP-AL), Louise Slaughter (NY-28), Betty Sutton (OH-13), Bennie Thompson (MS-02), Paul Tonko (NY-21), Pete Visclosky (IN-01), Maxine Waters (CA-35), Peter Welch (VT-AL), Frederica Wilson (FL-17), Lynn Woolsey (CA-06), and David Wu (OR-01).
07.27.2011	Eighty Member of Congress have now signed onto a letter spearheaded by Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) leaders to Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi insisting that cuts Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid be off the table in any budget deal. Leaders of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Asian Pacific American have also signed the letter and are encouraging their respective Caucus members to join them. share: f t McGovern joins 79 Colleagues on Progressive Caucus Letter Demanding No Cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security Eighty Member of Congress have now signed onto a letter spearheaded by Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) leaders to Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi insisting that cuts Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid be off the table in any budget deal. Leaders of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Asian Pacific American have also signed the letter and are encouraging their respective Caucus members to join them. Originally sent by CPC co-chairs Reps. Raúl M. Grijalva and Keith Ellison on July 8, the letter is still open for signatures and has become the primary vehicle for House Democrats to express their support for the programs during budget negotiations. The letter says that middle-class families -have sacrificed enough, and a deal that pushes the American Dream further out of reach, in order to pay for extending tax breaks for the rich and corporations, is simply unacceptable.- -We are united as Democrats in saying that it's time to stand up to the Republican hostage-taking. We will not be forced to vote for a -final agreement- that we do not agree to -- and that the American people do not agree to. We stand united with you in insisting that benefit cuts for working families, our seniors, children, and people with disabilities must be off the table, and we stand united with you in fighting for millions of Americans who need Democrats to be firmly on their side,- the letter continues. Signatories include CPC Co-Chairs Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva and Keith Ellison, along with Reps. Baca, Karen Bass, Bordallo, Brown, Carson, Christiansen, Chu, Yvette Clarke, Hansen Clarke, Clay, Cleaver, Cohen, Conyers, Critz, Cummings, Danny Davis, DeFazio, DeLauro, Deutch, Doggett, Edwards, Farr, Fattah, Filner, Frank, Fudge, Garamendi, Al Green, Gutierrez, Hahn, Hinchey, Hirono, Holmes Norton, Holt, Jesse Jackson Jr., Sheila Jackson Lee, Hank Johnson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Kaptur, Kildee, Kucinich, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Lofgren, Lynch, Maloney, Markey, McCollum, McDermott, McGovern, Moore, Nadler, Napolitano, Olver, Pallone, Payne, Pingree, Rangel, Reyes, Richardson, Richmond, Rothman, Roybal-Allard, Tim Ryan, Sablan, Schakowsky, Serrano, Stark, Sutton, Bennie Thompson, Tierney, Tonko, Towns, Waters, Waxman, Frederica Wilson, Woolsey, and Wu. The full text of the letter is below. ^^^ Leader Pelosi, We write in strong agreement with your unwavering defense of the Democratic programs that form the bedrock of America's middle and working classes, and which are overwhelmingly popular. On July 7, you made very clear that -We are not going to balance the budget on the backs of America's seniors, women and people with disabilities- and that -we do not support cuts in benefits- for vital safety-net programs. We agree completely. Especially in these tough economic times, we should not be cutting Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid benefits that millions of our constituents paid into and depend on. Such benefit cuts should be off the table in current debt discussions. Our Republican colleagues should be embarrassed by their insistence that unless Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid benefits are cut, the nation will default on its debts. Middle-class families have sacrificed enough, and a deal that pushes the American Dream further out of reach, in order to pay for extending tax breaks for the rich and corporations, is simply unacceptable. We are united as Democrats in saying that it's time to stand up to the Republican hostage-taking. We will not be forced to vote for a -final agreement- that we do not agree to -- and that the American people do not agree to. We stand united with you in insisting that benefit cuts for working families, our seniors, children, and people with disabilities must be off the table, and we stand united with you in fighting for millions of Americans who need Democrats to be firmly on their side.
07.27.2011	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern and Michael Capuano, today announced that two organizations that help homeless veterans in Massachusetts will receive two million dollars from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to improve housing and expand support services for those with very low incomes. share: f t Kerry, Brown, McGovern, Capuano: $2 Million for Housing Help for Veterans in Worcester and Jamaica Plain Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern and Michael Capuano, today announced that two organizations that help homeless veterans in Massachusetts will receive two million dollars from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to improve housing and expand support services for those with very low incomes. The funding, awarded through the Supportive Services for Veterans Families Program, supports organizations that provide support services to very low-income veteran families living in or transitioning to permanent housing. -I'm grateful to Secretary Shinseki for responding so quickly to my request and making this investment to help veterans who are hanging on by a thread,- said Sen. Kerry. -It is the least we can do for people who have served our country.- -Taking care of veterans who have the greatest needs must always remain a priority for our nation,- said Sen. Brown. -These grants will allow us to help those who have served us so well, and I am pleased the VA has made these funds available.- -I'm very pleased that Veterans, Inc. will be receiving this significant funding,- Rep. McGovern said. -Veterans Inc. does tremendous work on behalf of the men and women who have served our nation in uniform. Central Massachusetts is a better place as a result.- -This program, which helps our low-income veterans with housing support and other assistance, is exactly the sort of initiative that I am fighting to save as Washington debates a reasonable and fair way to address the national debt,- said Rep. Capuano -We are honored to be selected to be able provide these services to veteran families throughout New England,- said Vincent J. Perrone, Lieutenant Colonel, USAF (Retired), Veterans Inc. President and CEO. -With the award of this grant, Veterans Inc. will continue to raise the bar in assisting our veteran families in need.- -I am thrilled that the Department of Veterans Affairs recognizes our collaborative plan to address and combat regional homelessness,- said Thomas Bierbaum, Volunteers of America Massachusetts President and CEO. -This grant allows us to improve efforts towards ending homelessness among veterans.- A Vietnam veteran and long-time supporter of veteran services, Senator Kerry wrote a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to request funding for one of the recipients, Veterans Inc. in Worcester, for providing cost-effective, innovative and successful programs for Massachusetts' veterans and their families who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. The following organizations have received funding: Veterans Inc. Worcester, MA $1,000,000.00 Volunteers of America of Massachusetts Jamaica Plain, MA $1,000,000.00
07.19.2011	Opening Statement of U.S. Representative James P. McGovern H. Res. 355, Rule for Consideration of H.R. 2560 July 19, 2011 I thank the gentleman from Georgia, Mr. Woodall, for yielding me the customary 30 minutes. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks and I yield myself 5 minutes. M. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this closed rule and in even stronger opposition to the underlying bill. This is a closed rule. My friend from Georgia, Mr. Woodall, was on the floor last week telling us how -excited- he was as we debated a modified open rule for a flood insurance bill. My friend talked about how proud he was of the open process that allowed members to offer germane amendments to the bill. But here we are today considering legislation that would fundamentally transform the United States economy, gut many of the programs like Social Security and Medicare that millions of Americans rely upon, and make radical changes to the Constitution, and the Republican Majority of the Rules Committee has brought it to the floor under a closed rule. No hearings. No witnesses. No mark-ups. This bill was cobbled together last Friday night and rushed to the floor just a few days later. I wonder if my friend from Georgia is just as excited about this process. Because I'm sure not. Last night in the Rules Committee, I offered my friends on the other side of the aisle the opportunity to put their votes where their rhetoric is and support an open rule. They chose to vote ‘no.' As for the underlying legislation, M. Speaker, I can't quite figure out if this is a meaningless exercise in political theater or an actual expression of Republican values. And frankly, I can't figure out which is worse. If it's theater, it would get lousy reviews. Both the White House and the Senate have made it very clear that they have no interest in supporting this bill. It's not going anywhere. Maybe it's just a rotten piece of red meat that the Republican Leadership is throwing to their right-wing base in anticipation of an actual agreement to raise the debt ceiling and cut the deficit. If so, it's a complete waste of this body's time. But if the Republican Leadership means what they say - that they would like this bill to become the law of the land - it's a frightening prospect. This legislation would result in staggering cuts to programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Pell Grants, medical research and infrastructure - all while protecting tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans and corporations. The bill would require us to cut federal spending as a percentage of GDP to a level not seen since 1965. And we had a very interesting discussion in the Rules Committee last night about the significance of that date. One of my Republican colleagues noted that 1965 was a time when we enacted some of our QUOTE -So-called Anti-Poverty programs.- And she's exactly right, M. Speaker. Apparently the Republican Leadership would like to take America back to a time before Medicare. Before Medicaid. Before food stamps and school lunches. Before Meals on Wheels and Head Start and Pell Grants. If that's their vision for America, M. Speaker, they should have the guts to stand on this floor and say so. But it's not my vision. It's not the vision of the people I represent in Massachusetts. It's not the vision of the American people, who believe that in the richest society in the history of the world, we have an obligation to make sure that the most vulnerable among us don't fall through the cracks. At the same time, this bill would go out of its way - to enshrine in the Constitution of the United States - to protect tax cuts and loopholes for the richest 1% of Americans. Under this bill, Congress would need a mere majority to slash Medicare, but would need a super-majority to close a loophole that gives preferential treatment to owners of corporate jets. Talk about picking winners and losers, M. Speaker. In the ongoing budget negotiations, the Republican Leadership of this House have said that they will absolutely not consider raising any revenue to address the deficit and debt. But according to news reports, they're willing to force seniors receiving Medicare home health care to fork over new co-pays. So if an elderly woman in Worcester with diabetes has to pay more for a visiting nurse, the Republicans say: so be it. But heaven forbid that oil companies making billions of dollars in profit have to pay their fair share. Maybe they'll call those new co- pays -user fees- so that Grover Norquist and the Club for Growth will give them a pass. But tell the woman in Worcester who will be forced to go into a nursing home that her taxes didn't go up. M. Speaker, this is an awful bill brought to the floor under an awful process. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reject this cynical effort and to get back to work and meaningfully address the budget issues facing this nation. I reserve the balance of my time. Closing Statement of U.S. Representative James P. McGovern H. Res. 355, Rule for Consideration of H.R. 2560 July 19, 2011 M. Speaker, once again, I stand in strong opposition to this closed rule and to the underlying bill. It's time for a ‘grown-up moment' M. Speaker. It's time for the members of this House - Republican and Democrat - to come together to address the looming crisis over the debt limit. We are exactly two weeks - two weeks - away from the possibility of the United States defaulting on its obligations - of not paying its bills. That is not an acceptable outcome. I know there are some on the other side of the aisle - in fact, I talked to one just this morning - who will not vote for ANYTHING that raises the debt ceiling. That's unfortunate. Default would result in collapsing markets and sky-rocketing interest rates. It would deal a devastating blow to the full-faith-and-credit of the United States. It would throw even more Americans out of work. The bill before us does nothing - nothing - to prevent that outcome. Slashing Medicare and Social Security while protecting tax cuts for the wealthy is not a responsible solution. Radically altering the Constitution is not a responsible solution. We need to focus on jobs. And innovation plus infrastructure plus education equals jobs. This bill would slash the investments we need to put people back to work and to grow our economy. I urge my colleagues to reject this rule and the underlying legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
07.18.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern announced today that two Worcester school-based health center programs received a total of $342,577 in grants through the Affordable Care Act. Family Health Center of Worcester received $200,380, while the Edward Kennedy Community Health Center received $142,197. share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announces $342,577 in funding for Worcester school-based health center programs Congressman Jim McGovern announced today that two Worcester school-based health center programs received a total of $342,577 in grants through the Affordable Care Act. Family Health Center of Worcester received $200,380, while the Edward Kennedy Community Health Center received $142,197. The awards are part of $95 million being invested in 278 health center programs across the country. The awards will help clinics expand and provide more health care services at schools nationwide. Family Health Center and the Edward Kennedy Community Health Center currently provide services in 10 Worcester public schools. Family Health Center of Worcester will utilize the funds to enable electronic medical records, and move more comprehensive dental screening into Worcester schools, while the Edward Kennedy Community Health Center will use their funds for renovation and new equipment purchases. -I'm proud that both of these centers will be able to expand the incredible work they already do around our community,- said Congressman Jim McGovern. -Healthy students make better students, and these investments will mean that our students get the enhanced high-quality care they deserve. I believe we need to protect programs like these, not cut them.- Earlier this year, House Republicans passed a bill that repealed the funding in the Affordable Care Act for investment in school-based health centers. Republicans voted to repeal this funding despite the fact that school-based health centers have been proven to improve the overall health and wellness of children, increase academic performance, and reduce absenteeism. -Family Health really believes in the work we do in our school health centers. With these funds we can help families ensure that their children are healthier and more productive in the classroom,- said Frances Anthes, President and CEO of Family Health Center of Worcester. -This funding will help us incorporate both the newest technologies in medical records and oral health in our six school-based programs.- Eligible applicants were defined as a school-based health center or a sponsoring facility of a school-based health center as outlined in the Social Security Act. An objective review committee used the review criteria established in the grant guidance to assess and rank applications. Each reviewer on the objective review committee is screened to avoid conflicts of interest and is responsible for providing an objective, unbiased evaluation based on the review criteria. To learn more about the Affordable Care Act, visit www.healthcare.gov. To learn more about HRSA's School -Based Health Center Capital Program, visit www.hrsa.gov/ourstories/schoolhealthcenters/
07.15.2011	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with the entire Congressional delegation, today urged President Barack Obama to protect funding to train doctors and run trauma centers and teaching hospitals in Massachusetts throughout negotiations to increase the country's debt limit. share: f t Kerry, Brown, Delegation Defend MA Hospital Funding Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with the entire Congressional delegation, today urged President Barack Obama to protect funding to train doctors and run trauma centers and teaching hospitals in Massachusetts throughout negotiations to increase the country's debt limit. In a letter sent this morning, the Massachusetts delegation strongly backed Medicare graduate medical education (GME) dollars, noting -the size of the proposed reduction of medical education funding could exacerbate the significant physician shortages already facing our nation.- -Teaching hospitals play a critical role in training tomorrow's doctors, providing specialized services such as trauma centers, pediatric ICUs and transplant centers and conducting groundbreaking medical research that save lives,- the Members wrote. -The size of these cuts could have a devastating impact on the ability of teaching hospitals to fulfill these critical missions. As budget negotiations continue, we respectfully request that you fight any effort that would significantly undermine the education of physicians, nurses, and other health care providers.- The full text of the Delegation's letter to the President is below: July 15, 2011 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you work with the Congress on negotiations to reach an agreement to increase the debt limit, we write to express our deep concern about impact of potential reductions to Medicare graduate medical education (GME) payments on our nation's teaching hospitals, including those in Massachusetts. We realize that the nation's current fiscal situation will require shared sacrifice, but we are concerned that the size of the proposed reduction of medical education funding could exacerbate the significant physician shortages already facing our nation. The recommendations made by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, which are currently under consideration, would eliminate approximately $5.8 billion in GME funding to our nation's teaching hospitals. This approach would cut more than $320 million in critically-needed GME funding to Massachusetts hospitals. These proposed cuts come on top of decisions made by states, including Massachusetts, to eliminate or drastically reduce Medicaid funding for medical education. Additionally, significant Medicare payment reforms to hospitals contained in the Affordable Care Act are just now being implemented. Teaching hospitals play a critical role in training tomorrow's doctors, providing specialized services such as trauma centers, pediatric ICUs and transplant centers and conducting groundbreaking medical research that save lives. The size of these cuts could have a devastating impact on the ability of teaching hospitals to fulfill these critical missions. As a major driver of the economy, our teaching hospitals are a unique resources and a significant factor in life sciences companies locating and growing in Massachusetts and in many other parts of the country. The U.S. has the world's best physicians and nurses because we have the best teaching hospitals, and significant cuts to Medicare GME payments could jeopardize the U.S.'s international status as a leader in the life sciences arena as our economy emerges from the worst recession in generations. We fully appreciate the difficult financial choices facing our nation, however, the severity of the proposed cuts could devastate teaching hospitals ability to maintain vital, life-saving services that are often unavailable elsewhere in communities. As budget negotiations continue, we respectfully request that you fight any effort that would significantly undermine the education of physicians, nurses, and other health care providers at a time when our nation faces a critical shortage of doctors, which will threaten the health of all U.S. residents. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Scott P. Brown United States Senator United States Senator Edward J. Markey Barney Frank Member of Congress Member of Congress Richard E. Neal John W. Olver Member of Congress Member of Congress John F. Tierney James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress Michael E. Capuano Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Member of Congress Niki Tsongas William R. Keating Member of Congress Member of Congress
07.14.2011	In a floor speech on Thursday, U.S. Rep. McGovern demanded that human and labor rights are given time to take effect before the Colombia Free Trade Agreement is taken up for a vote. share: f t Mr. Speaker - Six days ago, on Friday, July 1st, armed men assassinated a candidate for the city council of Caldas, a town just outside of Medellín. He was the ninth local candidate murdered over the past few months. Last Thursday, June 30th, Luis Eduardo Gómez, a Colombian journalist and witness for a high-profile investigation into links between Colombian politicians and paramilitary groups, was shot down and killed in northwestern Antióquia - an area I first visited in 2001. Gómez was 70 years old; he was returning home at night with his wife when he was gunned down. He was murdered a few days after another witness in the case was killed. And investigators for the Attorney General have said several other witnesses have disappeared. Antonio Mendoza Moraleswas a councilman in the Caribbean town of San Onofre, Sucre. The 34-year-old Mendoza was also a leader of the Association of Displaced Persons of San Onofre and the Montes de María. He was also shot and killed last Thursday night. He is at least the eleventh land claims, victims' rights or displaced persons leader to have been killed in Colombia so far this year. Displaced and victims-rights advocates in the Sucre region received a series of death threats during the month of June. We don't know yet whether Mendoza's killing is related to these threats. But I traveled to Sucre in 2003, and can attest to the daily violence suffered by local leaders, the displaced and campesino organizations. On June 7th, Ana Fabricia Córdoba, 51, a leader of the displaced and a land rights activist, was shot dead by an unidentified gunman while riding on a bus in Medellín. She had fled her home in northern Antióquia in 2001 after several of her family members were killed. She had been campaigning for the restitution of lands to Colombia's displaced and was a member of Ruta Pacífica - the Peaceful Path - a women's organization calling for a negotiated end to the war. In 2008, Ruta Pacífica testified before the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission about Colombia's internally displaced. Córdoba, an Afro-Colombian, had been receiving death threats for months. She had asked the Colombian government for protection, but had not received any. Her children have received death threats following their mother's death. The Inter-American Commission for Human Rights condemned Córdoba's murder and expressed alarm over the increase in serious threats against Colombian human rights defenders. The situation is getting worse. Every day I receive news about threats, murders and disappearances of Colombian labor and human rights advocates and community leaders. I recite this sad litany of recent murders to impress upon my colleagues that these are real people, real leaders, being murdered every day in Colombia. Will their murderers be brought to justice? Or will their deaths be just one more case that remains in impunity? Will the government's promises to their families to seek justice be fulfilled? Will other threatened leaders and their families receive real protection? I hope so, but we simply don't know yet. Promises are easy. Results take time, commitment and political will to achieve. This morning, my colleagues will describe the dangers facing Colombia's labor activists. Colombia remains the most dangerous place in the world to be a trade unionist. But violence against Colombia's workers happens in the context of a very threatening landscape for anyone who has the courage to organize their communities, run for public office, or stand up for the rights of the poor, the displaced and the victims of human rights abuse. The sources of violence are all the illegal armed actors - the FARC, the ELN, the paramilitaries, and criminal networks known as BACRIM; and also includes members and units of the Colombian military and police. Before any trade agreement is brought to the Congress for a vote, we owe it to the brave people of Colombia to give the Santos Administration time to demonstrate that it can carry out the historic reforms it has announced as priorities. We need time to see if the initial steps required by the U.S.-Colombia Labor Action Plan actually result in changes on the ground inside Colombia. Will workers be able to exercise their rights, organize freely and bargain directly with their employers, without the fear of death? And we need time to determine whether violence against rights defenders and community leaders is actually reduced under the leadership of President Santos and whether greater protections are provided and prove to be effective. We need to see - we should demand to see - results on-the-ground before Congress takes up the Colombia Free Trade Agreement. Let's use whatever leverage the U.S. has in Colombia to help end a culture of impunity and violence that - by any standard - is intolerable. I cannot approve an FTA on the basis of good intentions; it must be based on real results. Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, let me just say that trade agreements should be about lifting people up, not keeping them down.
07.13.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives this evening approved an amendment by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern to benefit local communities and residents facing the expensive process of fighting disputed FEMA flood maps. share: f t U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES PASSES REP. McGOVERN'S AMENDMENT FOR COMMUNITIES DISPUTING FEMA FLOOD MAPS The U.S. House of Representatives this evening approved an amendment by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern to benefit local communities and residents facing the expensive process of fighting disputed FEMA flood maps. Currently, communities that wish to dispute FEMA's flood elevation maps must hire costly private engineering firms to get a second opinion. If the community does not pay for a second opinion, homeowners must pay higher - or needless - flood insurance premiums. But if a challenge is successful, a community is still obligated to pay the costs associated with obtaining the second map. McGovern's amendment allows for communities to be reimbursed for the expenses of mounting a successful challenge to incorrect FEMA flood maps. On the House floor, McGovern highlighted the problems facing Holliston, one of the communities benefiting from the new amendment: -There is substantial evidence to support the case that the FEMA flood map [for Holliston] is inaccurate, but town officials are struggling to find a way to pay the estimated $30,000 it would cost to conduct a second engineering study.- -Local communities have enough to worry about during these difficult economic times. They shouldn't have to cut schools/fire/police in order to pay for an appeal/review of a mistaken FEMA map,- said Rep. McGovern in a statement. -It's not right that families, already struggling in this economy, are paying flood insurance unnecessarily because of incorrect FEMA maps,- said Massachusetts State Representative Carolyn Dykema. -Congressman McGovern's legislation will ensure that towns like Holliston can address incorrect maps in a timely manner, and provide needed relief to affected homeowners.- McGovern's amendment was accepted as part of the Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2011, which reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) through FY 2016 and is intended to ensure its immediate and near-term fiscal health.
07.11.2011	U.S. Rep Jim McGovern and 69 other House Democrats sent a letter to President Obama urging him not to consider Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security benefit cuts in a deal to raise the debt ceiling, including changes to the chained Consumer Price Index (CPI). share: f t U.S. Rep Jim McGovern and 69 other House Democrats sent a letter to President Obama urging him not to consider Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security benefit cuts in a deal to raise the debt ceiling, including changes to the chained Consumer Price Index (CPI). Dear Mr. President: While we understand the immediate need to address the debt ceiling to a meet our obligations, we urge you to protect Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security by keeping these important programs off the bargaining table. Making cuts to Social Security, veteran, disability, or children's benefits is a short-sighted economic policy that would perpetuate the myth that Social Security is a contributor to our national debt. Furthermore, we urge you to reject application of the chained Consumer Price Index (CPI) for purposes of calculating Social Security, veterans, and disability benefits cost-of-living adjustments (COLA) in your negotiations on raising the debt ceiling or reducing deficit spending. The evidence is clear. Social Security has a $2.7 trillion surplus in 2011 that is projected to grow to $3.7 trillion by 2022, and is therefore not a contributing factor to our national debt. Make no mistake, the chained CPI is a benefit cut for current and future beneficiaries. While we strongly support efforts to reduce our federal debt and curb deficit spending, we do not believe balancing our nation's budget should be done on the backs of seniors, veterans, the disabled, or children. Applying the chained CPI to current government benefit programs would cause deep cuts to current beneficiaries. The modest average annual benefit of $13,000 a year for most beneficiaries and $14,000 for retirees is already declining in value because of the rising retirement age, the lack of a COLA adjustment for the past two years, and increasing Medicare Part B premiums. As a result, Social Security's replacement rate for the average worker is projected to go down from 39 percent in 2009 to 32 percent in 2030. If adopted, the chained CPI would: Further reduce Social Security benefits for current and future beneficiaries and would significantly jeopardize their economic security; Cut benefits more with each passing year, reducing annual benefits for an average earner by $1,000, and more than $10,000 in accumulated benefits, when the beneficiary reaches age 85; and Result in harmful consequences particularly to minority and underrepresented communities, affecting some of our most vulnerable populations including, African Americans, Latinos and other minority communities, who tend to have lower income earnings throughout their lifetime, our seniors, who are disproportionately women, and individuals who become disabled early in life but live long lives despite the disability. In addition, the chained CPI is a less accurate measure of inflation for people on fixed incomes, especially retirees and disabled workers who make up the vast majority of Social Security beneficiaries. The chained CPI assumes that people will substitute for cheaper products as prices increase, however, that is not true of the elderly and disabled receiving Social Security benefits. There is no cheaper option or substitution for rising health care costs, which are often twice as large for the elderly and disabled as are those of the rest of the population. Unlike routine discretionary expenditures, health care cannot be substituted or short-changed. Under the chained CPI, Social Security benefits would grow at a rate that fails to keep pace with healthcare costs. The existing consumer price index formula already understates the market-based expenses of seniors, and has resulted in no COLA increase the past two years. Instead of adopting the chained CPI, we urge you in your negotiations to insist upon the Consumer Price Index for the Elderly (CPI-E). The CPI-E gives greater weight to medical care and housing costs, more accurately reflecting the expenses of the elderly. From 1983 to 2007, the CPI-E grew faster than the CPI-W, increasing 126.5 percent, while the CPI-W rose just 110 percent. While a responsible deficit reduction plan is vital to our nation's sustainability, the chained CPI will result in detrimental cuts and harm Social Security beneficiaries, while not addressing the real problem of growing health care costs. Social Security is a decades-old promise to the American worker for years of hard work and contributions to ensure dignity in retirement, disability, or to support their surviving children. Cutting Social Security's already modest benefits is unacceptable and we will reject any legislation that extends the chained CPI to Social Security, veteran and disability, or children's benefits. These are the Americans who are most deserving of our support. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to working with you at a future time to strengthen Social Security for our today's seniors and future generations. Below are the other signers.
07.11.2011	On Friday, U.S. Rep Jim McGovern and Twenty-three other members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) issued a letter to President Barack Obama laying out their demands that any final budget deal generate significant revenue and avoid cuts to Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid. The letter, unveiled at a press conference earlier this morning, says the middle class "has experienced enough pain during the last three years. Republicans are willing to inflict even more. We will not join them." share: f t On Friday, U.S. Rep Jim McGovern and Twenty-three other members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) issued a letter to President Barack Obama laying out their demands that any final budget deal generate significant revenue and avoid cuts to Social Security, Medicare or Medicaid. The letter, unveiled at a press conference earlier this morning, says the middle class -has experienced enough pain during the last three years. Republicans are willing to inflict even more. We will not join them.- The full text of the letter is below. Dear Mr. President: The ongoing debt ceiling negotiations have distracted Congress from reducing unemployment and putting Americans back to work. As reflected in a June 24-28 poll conducted by The New York Times and CBS News, Americans agree that job creation is the most important issue facing the country not deficit reduction. Yet, Congressional Republicans appear to believe that job creation has no role in the national conversation. Although it is disappointing that Republicans in Washington have used the debt ceiling negotiations for political gain, the signatories of this letter know that failing to raise the debt ceiling is not an academic matter. We understand such a failure would cause lasting economic harm to families across the country, as well as to the global economy. We write to share our viewpoint about what should be included in any final agreement on the debt ceiling. First, any cuts to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid should be taken off the table. The individuals depending on these three programs deserve well-conceived improvements, not deep, ideologically driven cuts with harmful consequences. These cuts would hurt households and damage the country's economic recovery as well. Second, revenue increases must be a meaningful part of any agreement. Tax breaks benefiting the very richest Americans should be eliminated as part of this deal. Republican insistence on protecting these tax breaks will force middle-class families to shoulder the burden of even deeper budget cuts, and this is unacceptable. These points are essential for any deal on the debt ceiling, but more work to rebuild the economy will remain after these negotiations have concluded. We support The People's Budget introduced by the Congressional Progressive Caucus in April, which would bring the country into surplus by 2021 and invest more than $1 trillion in job creation through public works, infrastructure upgrades and other popular measures. The New York Times, the Washington Post, The Economist and many other publications have written favorably about the proposal, with Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman calling it -genuinely courageous.- We stand ready to work with the Administration responsibly to increase the debt ceiling. The middle class has experienced enough pain during the last three years. Republicans are willing to inflict even more. We will not join them. Signatories include CPC Co-Chairs Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva and Keith Ellison, along with Reps. Capuano, Chu, Yvette Clarke, Conyers, Danny Davis, Farr, Filner, Fudge, Gutierrez, Honda, Jackson Lee, Hank Johnson, Lewis, McGovern, Nadler, Napolitano, Pingree, Pastor, Stark, Bennie Thompson, Waters and Woolsey.
07.11.2011	From remarks delivered at Boston's South Sudan Indepedence Celebration. share: f t Remarks delivered at Boston's South Sudan Indepedence Celebration. Happy Birthday, Republic of South Sudan! Today we celebrate the birth of a new nation, the Republic of South Sudan. In the Spanish language, the act of birth is described as -to give to the light- - Well, today the light of the world is shining on the people and the new-born country of South Sudan. No one knows better than the people of South Sudan, including so many of you gathered here today, Sudanese and Americans, that it has not been an easy birth. The previous speakers have talked about the price of freedom that the peoples of southern Sudan have paid - A two-decade long civil war 2 million deaths 4 million displaced Civilians targeted because of their ethnicity, including the Dinka, Nuer and Nuba Children who lost their parents And parents who lost their children Since the Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed in 2005, the road has been long and difficult and complicated to reach today. Not just in trying to figure out how to form a new government that represents all the south Sudanese people. Not just to encourage millions of people to return to a homeland where their last memories were of fighting, terror and death. Not just to help people sow their first crops, dig new wells, and create new communities. Even the work of peace is hard and dangerous. Even good things can be difficult. Since the 2005 peace accord was signed, for example, more than 18,000 anti-personnel landmines have been cleared in South Sudan, along with 3,600 anti-tank mines. Over one million small arms have been collected and 847,430 unexploded ordinance dismantled. More than 36,000 kilometers of roads and 55 million square meters of land have been cleared of landmines and other explosive devices. Just so people can go to school, plant their seeds, market their crops, find a doctor, visit relatives, or get to the capital of Juba. The South Sudanese communities throughout New England who are represented in this room are a living legacy to the suffering and sacrifice of that war. And you are testimony to the resilience, dignity and human spirit of the southern Sudanese people. And while we in the United States are greatly enriched by your presence in our cities, towns and communities, we know that pieces of your heart remain in your homeland. I know and understand that because America is a nation of immigrants - and those among my own relatives who were the very first to come to these shores from Ireland and Poland always kept a piece of their homeland in their hearts - and in the stories and history they passed down to their American-born children and grandchildren. Just as I'm sure you do. I'd like to take this moment to thank the south Sudanese who have gathered here together on this very special occasion. I'd like to thank those who traveled all the way from Maine and Vermont, from Connecticut and New Hampshire, from upstate New York and Pennsylvania - thank you for coming. Thank you for being here. Thank you for making history. And I especially want to thank the South Sudanese community of Massachusetts and the July 9th Committee, and especially Mangok Bol, Chair of the July 9th Committee, who put their heart and soul into organizing the events of this day. And to the many people at the Institute for Global Leadership and Tufts University who coordinated the use of this venue. I'm sorry I couldn't be with all of you this morning when the beautiful - and I do mean beautiful - new flag of the Republic of South Sudan was hoisted at Boston City Hall. What a proud moment in history that must have been. And while Boston Mayor Tom Menino couldn't be here this afternoon, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank him and the City of Boston for raising and flying the flag of your new nation. New nations are very rare. East Timor. Kosovo. To name but two recent additions to the international community of nations. And now, the Republic of South Sudan - the world's newest nation. But new nations are also fragile and their independence can be vulnerable to forces that seek their overthrow or their annihilation. The world cannot let that happen again to South Sudan. I am deeply concerned about the violence raging in the border state of Southern Kordofan, where the Nuba people are in particular danger from attacks by the Sudanese Armed Forces. Once again, Khartoum is lighting fires and doesn't care how many people perish in the flames. The brutal assault on Abyei reminds us of the ethnic cleansing of the past - and the determination of Khartoum to exert control over all the oil and other natural resources, even those clearly in the domain of South Sudan. Our support and commitment to a free and independent South Sudan must be more than fine words and fancy diplomacy. Our commitment must include protection and the political will to deal harshly with President Bashir if he continues his current killing spree. For its part, the new government of South Sudan must commit itself to representing all the peoples of southern Sudan. It will not be easy. Most people live on less than $1 a day. More than 10% of the children do not reach the age of five. Some 75 percent of adults cannot read. Sometimes it can be easier to build a road or a bridge, than to build a nation, establish good governance, adopt a Constitution, and educate and feed your people. But I have faith in the people of South Sudan. I have faith in you. And I have faith in the American people who have stood with you for so long. Today, in Juba, a very high level delegation from the United States joined the international celebration of South Sudan's independence. Led by U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Johnny Carson, and USAID Deputy Administrator Don Steinberg, it also includes my friend and colleague Congressman Don Payne who has been a leader in the U.S. Congress on southern Sudan and so many other African issues; the President's Special Envoy to Sudan Princeton Lyman; General Colin Powell; and my personal favorite, Mr. Ken Hackett, the president of Catholic Relief Services, and American NGO that has stood alongside the South Sudanese people through war and peace, assisting refugees and IDPs - and now helping with seeds, health care and economic development. This delegation represents all Americans of good will towards the new nation of South Sudan. The U.S. delegation will remember that on January 9th, four million Southern Sudanese registered to vote in Southern Sudan Referendum; 97.5% turned out to vote - and 98.83% voted for independence and separation from Khartoum. And on behalf of the American people, the U.S. delegation will stand next to President Salva Kiir as independence is formally declared for the Republic of South Sudan. And they will cut the ceremonial ribbon that transforms the U.S. Consulate in Juba into the U.S. Embassy to the new Republic of South Sudan. On July 13th, the United Nations will meet to formally discuss membership and recognition of the Republic of South Sudan; and on Thursday, July 14th, the U.N. General Assembly will vote on a resolution to accept South Sudan as the world's 193rd U.N. Member State. This is history in the making. We are witnessing; we are celebrating; we are commemorating and remembering. I would like to remember a man whose spirit is present here and in Juba on this day of celebration and independence, John Garang. And I would like to remember all those who are not with us today, who perished in the civil war and its aftermath. Their memories live on inside of each of us. Their memory, their sacrifice demand that we create a better tomorrow for South Sudan. So, most of all, we are here to rededicate ourselves, each in our own way, to the peace, security, well-being and development of the world's newest nation, the people and the Republic of South Sudan. Thank you.
07.08.2011	The rule before us today provides for the reauthorization of the National Flood Insurance Program through September 30, 2016. This program was established in 1968 in response to increasing Federal government spending for disaster relief. The NFIP was intended to alleviate some of the public's financial burden because the government covered losses generated by floods in the form of disaster relief payments. With the increase of severe weather in the past few years, the need to reauthorize this program before it expires on September 30th is great. The National Flood Insurance Program, housed within the Federal Emergency Management Agency, has become financially strained following severe hurricanes — including Katrina in 2005, which significantly increased insurance claims. In addition to extending this program for an additional five years, this bill also includes a 3-year delay of the mandatory flood insurance purchase requirement as a result of the new, updated flood maps. This will allow our constituents to be notified if their home is now at risk of flooding and purchase insurance accordingly, by requiring annual notifications to homeowners living in flood zones about the flood risk in their community, the geographical boundaries of the flood zone, the requirement to purchase flood insurance, and a general estimate of what similar homeowners in similar communities typically pay for flood insurance. This bill also provides optional coverage for additional living expenses incurred by homeowners when losses from a flood make their home unfit to live in. For businesses and commercial properties or multifamily properties, this bill provides optional coverage for losses resulting from any partial or total interruption of the insured's business caused by flood. We saw massive devastation to the southeastern part of our country in 2005. But we also saw the resiliency of the American people; it's no easy task to rebuild your entire life from the ground up. Recognizing the economic reality that having flood coverage could keep families from financial ruin but - at the same time - add additional and substantial costs to family budgets, this bill allows families to pay flood insurance premiums in installments. This bill will also help our local communities prepare for the worst by authorizing the use of Community Development Block Grant funds for communities to reach out to homeowners about flood insurance rates, mapping, and inclusion in flood zones and by authorizing localities to use Community Development Block Grant funds to supplement existing state or local funding for building code enforcement. The National Flood Insurance Reform Act gives communities the tools they need to prepare, protect and rebuild. M. Speaker, I'm pleased that the Rules Committee made in order my amendment to H.R. 1309 and I want to thank the Committee for working with me to make this important amendment in order. My amendment is simple: if FEMA makes a mistake in designing a flood map, communities can be reimbursed for the costs of mounting a successful challenge. Currently, communities that dispute FEMA's flood elevations can hire a private engineering firm to get a -second opinion- flood map. While this may sound like an attractive option, it puts small communities in a very difficult financial position. Hiring a private engineering firm is expensive and cost-prohibitive for many small communities. On the one hand, if the community decides that it's too expensive to get a second opinion, homeowners are forced to pay higher, or in some cases, needless flood insurance premiums. One the other hand, if the community does mount a successful challenge to the original FEMA map, homeowners are spared from having to pay the higher flood insurance premiums. But, the town still must pay the costs associated with obtaining that second map. I've heard of many small communities that are forced into this tough situation, including the Town of Holliston in my district. There is substantial evidence to support the argument that the FEMA map is incorrect, but town officials are struggling to find a way to pay the $30,000 it would cost to conduct a second engineering study. I feel for these town officials. They want to do the right thing and help their residents but these small towns are already cash-strapped and cutting funding left and right for essential services like schools and police. There simply is no money for a legitimate but expensive second opinion map. If FEMA makes a mistake in mapping a flood area, they should pay for it. I encourage my colleagues to support my amendment. M. Speaker, this bill is proof that Congress can work in a bipartisan way. Passed out of the House Committee on Financial Services 54-0, this bipartisan bill is timely with hurricane season just around the corner. It is also important to add that the Congressional Budget Office estimates enacting H.R. 1309 will have no net impact on direct spending over the 2012-2016 or 2012-2021 periods. I hope my colleagues will support my amendment and I look forward to supporting this bill.
07.07.2011	Click here to see more photos from Congressman McGovern's trip.
07.07.2011	On July 6, Congressman Jim McGovern, along with 10 of his colleagues, made a series of speeches and amendments on the floor of the House of Representatives in a stand against a continued course in Afghanistan. McGovern's floor speech is below. share: f t On July 6, Congressman Jim McGovern, along with 10 of his colleagues, made a series of speeches and amendments on the floor of the House of Representatives in a stand against a continued course in Afghanistan. McGovern's floor speech is below. On July 6, Congressman Jim McGovern, along with 10 of his colleagues, made a series of speeches and amendments on the floor of the House of Representatives in a stand against a continued course in Afghanistan. McGovern's floor speech is below. On July 6, Congressman Jim McGovern, along with 10 of his colleagues, made a series of speeches and amendments on the floor of the House of Representatives in a stand against a continued course in Afghanistan. I rise in support of amendments to this title that cut funds, reduce our military footprint and move to bring our troops home from Afghanistan - and I rise in opposition to the underlying bill. I want to commend the Ranking Member of the Committee, Congressman Dicks from Washington, for his leadership in calling for a fresh look at how we carry out military operations in Afghanistan and the need for a strategy that brings our troops home sooner rather than later. Mr. Chairman, I just returned from a trip to Afghanistan. I cannot describe how impressed I am with the commitment, dedication and the work carried out every day by our men and women in uniform - and those in our civilian services. I met and spoke with them in Kabul and Marjah - at large bases like Bagram Air Force Base and in small villages. Quite simply, Mr. Chairman, they are incredible. But over and over again, I saw and heard the same message: this is not sustainable. The strategy we are pursuing in Afghanistan is not sustainable. And it is costing us too much - in human lives and financial resources - to continue. It can't continue for another 18 months as called for by the President, let alone even longer. I stand here tonight more convinced than ever that it is time to forge a new path, a new strategy - built upon past and present accomplishments - but more aggressively focused on: more rapidly reducing the U.S. military footprint in Afghanistan than the plan described last month by the President; accelerating the transition of combat operations to Afghanistan authorities; and an intense international and regional effort to secure a political solution to the Afghan conflict and defining a genuine regional coordinated effort that safeguards the region and the world from terrorist threats. While I was in Afghanistan, General Patraeus invited me and the two Members I was traveling with, Congressmen Allen West and Duncan Hunter, Jr., to attend a ramp ceremony. We may not always agree on policy, but we were united in how respectful, emotional and moving we found the ceremony honoring the fallen soldiers who were being transported by the C-130 on their final journey home. Mr. Chairman - 1,650 American servicemen and women have sacrificed their lives in the Afghanistan war. While I was in Afghanistan, six more were killed. It was a reminder of the enormous sacrifice our soldiers are paying. 2010 was the deadliest year of conflict to date in the Afghanistan war - for U.S. and coalition forces, and for Afghan civilians. This year, 2011, is on pace to be the deadliest year of war. We need to end the war, not sustain it, Mr. Chairman. We are borrowing $8-to-$10 billion each month for military operations alone. Borrowing, Mr. Chairman, borrowing! We know we can't sustain that - and we know the Afghan government and security forces don't have the resources to sustain that level of resources once we leave. We need to find a new strategy and purpose to help bring this conflict to an end. The President and Congressional leaders are in negotiations, grappling with how to deal with the national debt. It can't be done if we don't find the means and the political will to end this war sooner, rather than later. According to CBO, we can save $1.3 Trillion by ending these wars - that's trillion with a -T-, Mr. Chairman. We have spent approximately $3.7 Trillion since 9/11 in Iraq and Afghanistan. We can't afford another decade like the last one. It is simply not sustainable. We need to also understand that jobs and economic strength are central parts of our national security. While we serve as an ATM machine for a corrupt government in Kabul, we tell our own people that we have no money for roads, bridges, schools, police, firefighters and jobs. Enough! I urge all my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to support amendments that reduce our spending and military footprint in Afghanistan, help bring our troops home sooner rather than later, and call for a new strategy, a new direction in Afghanistan.
07.01.2011	Today the entire Massachusetts House delegation called on President Obama to preserve funding for Medicare and Medicaid during negotiations to raise the debt ceiling. share: f t Massachusetts House Delegation to Obama: We Oppose Cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, Will Fight to Keep Funding Today, Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), dean of the Massachusetts delegation, and the entire Massachusetts House delegation called on President Obama to preserve funding for Medicare and Medicaid during negotiations to raise the debt ceiling. In a letter sent today to President Obama, Rep. Markey and all ten members of the Massachusetts House delegation write, -While we fully appreciate the difficult financial choices confronting you during these negotiations, the severity of the cuts proposed by congressional Republicans would devastate these essential healthcare programs to the detriment of the millions of seniors, children and people with disabilities who depend on them.- Under the proposed Republican plan to end Medicare, seniors would pay more for their healthcare. In the first year of the plan alone, seniors would have to pay an extra $540 per month for their healthcare. A 54-year old today will have to save an additional $182,000 before they retire to make up for the additional costs they'll face under the Republican plan. Medicaid provides vital healthcare services for 60 million Americans - including 1.4 million in Massachusetts. This includes seniors who need nursing home care, poor children who need to see a doctor, and young adults with traumatic brain injury, an intellectual disability, or severe mental illness requiring long-term care. The proposed GOP plan would slash more than $700 billion from this program, leaving states with no option but to reduce eligibility, cut benefits, or slash payments to healthcare providers -Republicans have ‘Deficit Attention Disorder' - they only pay attention to the deficit when they want to dismantle Medicare, Medicaid and programs on which middle-class Americans rely,- said Rep. Markey. -If the G.O.P. were truly serious about cutting the federal deficit, they would be voting in support of ending tax breaks for billionaires and the most profitable oil companies - not ending Medicare and eviscerating Medicaid and the programs that help children, Grandma and Grandpa, and the disabled. I will continue to fight against the Republican plan to slash these bedrock programs, ensuring that low-income children, seniors, and people with disabilities are not left behind.- -Never has there been a time in our nation's recent history when we needed Medicare and Medicaid more,- said Rep. William Keating. -With so many seniors and families still feeling the economic burdens from the great recession, to eliminate these vital programs would be devastating to them. Just this week, I held a Medicare townhall and the comment I kept hearing over and over was our need to protect and preserve Medicare. Yes, we need to make smart, targeted changes to both programs, but those changes shouldn't equal elimination, as our Republican colleagues are proposing.- -Thousands of Fifth District residents rely on Medicare and Medicaid to meet their health care needs every day,- said Rep. Niki Tsongas. -As budget negotiations continue, it is essential that the President and Congressional leaders preserve and protect these essential programs and do not bring our budget into balance at the expense of critical health care services for our most vulnerable seniors and children.- -We should be searching for ways to strengthen and preserve Medicare and Medicaid - not destroy them,- said Rep. Jim McGovern. -What our Republican colleagues have proposed is reckless, thoughtless and heartless. We can and we much do better.- -We understand that difficult decisions must be made to address our deficit, but the Republican proposed changes to Medicare and Medicaid will have devastating consequences for the programs and limit access for the many people who rely on them,- said Rep. Michael Capuano. -Restricting eligibility and reducing benefits to our most vulnerable is not the answer. As you continue negotiations on how to address the debt ceiling, please keep these essential programs in mind.- -Before the creation of Medicare and Medicaid, half of senior citizens in this country were without healthcare coverage or long term care options, and nearly a third of seniors lived below the poverty line,- said Rep. John Olver. -Over the past 46 years, these programs have brought seniors out of poverty and given them a sense of security as they age. As we continue to discuss ways to preserve and strengthen our nation, we must remember that for many seniors these programs are truly invaluable.- -Effectively ending Medicare and Medicaid, as the Republican bill proposes to do, would have a devastating impact on our seniors and our families,- said Rep. John Tierney. -Seniors are rightfully scared that such current efforts would eliminate their health care options and put insurance company bureaucrats in the way of their personal relationships with their doctors. While difficult choices must be made in our budget negotiations, we need not and should not devastate these effective and necessary programs that serve our seniors and other vulnerable citizens.- -While we can all agree that we need to reduce spending, we should not balance our budget on the backs of our senior citizens and the most vulnerable Americans. We need to take a balanced approach to deficit reduction while Medicare and Medicaid must be preserved,- said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch. A full copy of the letter to President Obama can be found HERE.
06.27.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today that Worcester-based Training Resources of America, Inc. has received a $1,300,161 grant from the Department of Labor. The grant, one of four distributed nationwide under the Young Parents Demonstration, is to provide intensive mentoring, educational, and occupational services for low-income young parents or expectant parents, ages 16 to 24. share: f t U.S. Rep Jim McGovern announces $1.3 million grant for Worcester-based Training Resources of America, Inc. U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today that Worcester-based Training Resources of America, Inc. has received a $1,300,161 grant from the Department of Labor. The grant, one of four distributed nationwide under the Young Parents Demonstration, is to provide intensive mentoring, educational, and occupational services for low-income young parents or expectant parents, ages 16 to 24. Training Resources of America, Inc. (TRA) will work with LARE Training Center to enroll at least 400 low-income young parents (ages 16 to 24) into existing Young Parent GED Programs in the cities or townships of Brockton, Fitchburg, Holyoke, New Bedford, Quincy, Salem, Springfield, Worcester, Chelsea, and Lawrence in Massachusetts. -I'm exceptionally pleased that Training Resources of America will be able to help hundreds of young low-income parents get the educational, training, mentoring and workforce resources they need to be productive members in our communities,- said Congressman Jim McGovern. -This grant will allow young adults and their families in Worcester and throughout the Commonwealth overcome challenges to go on to higher education and workforce opportunities.- -Being one of four grantees nationwide to receive this award is very exciting. TRA is thrilled to be able to bring over $1.3 million dollars into the Commonwealth in support of low-income young families. This grant will enable us to positively impact programming in 10 communities across the state,- said Kim Harmon, President/ CEO of Training Resources of America, Inc. Under the program, TRA and LARE will utilize existing education, employment and employment strategy services, case management supportive services, and follow-up and post program transition services to all youth enrolled. Local workforce investment boards will provide job referrals and a variety of other services, including career center orientation, employment workshops and related resources to assist young parents with employment opportunities. Mentoring services will be provided by recruited volunteers for a period of 18 months. TRA anticipates that under the intensive mentoring services, there will be a 25% increase in successful outcomes, including achievement of a GED, transfer to college or certificate programs, and placement into skills training and/or employment. This is the third round of YPD grants; previous grants awarded in 2008 and 2009 totaling nearly $15 million provided additional mentoring or training services to young parents across the country.
06.27.2011	Miller and McGovern: Reports that Colombia FTA Will Be Sent to Congress Without Labor Rights Action Plan Gravely Disappointing Reps. George Miller (D-CA) and James McGovern (D-MA) issued the following joint statement today after reports that the Obama administration is intending to send the Colombian trade agreement to Congress without including language that would incorporate requirements from an action plan to improve Colombian workers' labor rights. The action plan was negotiated earlier this year with the Colombian government. -Reports that the Administration may issue draft implementing language for the Colombia FTA that does not incorporate or even reference its action plan on labor rights are gravely disappointing. Acquiescing to Republican demands to dismiss human rights concerns would give the forces of violence and oppression in Colombia a major victory. -It would be a huge blow against Colombian workers and their prospects for basic human rights. It would erase a major piece of leverage this country had to ensure change in Colombia. It would allow the policies of impunity to continue, and it would dim the hopes for working people who struggle daily for justice and security. -While the action plan itself could be stronger and fails to require real, on-the-ground results, the failure to incorporate or even reference that plan in the implementing bill would simply underscore how wrong this agreement is for both Colombian workers' lives and American workers' livelihoods.-
06.23.2011	Last night the President outlined his strategy for Afghanistan - which included a drawdown of 10,000 troops by the end of this year and an additional 23,000 by the end of next year. I believe this is insufficient and I fear that it means more of the same for the next 18 months. The same strategy means the same costs - and I'm sad to say, even more casualties. More American soldiers losing their lives in support of an Afghan government that is terribly corrupt and incompetent. We've been doing this for ten years. It is the longest war in our history, Mr. Speaker. Enough! Our focus should be on encouraging a negotiated settlement, a political solution - and bringing our troops home where they belong. Our troops are incredible men and women. I am in awe of what they do. They don't belong in the middle of mountains and deserts fighting a cruel war. According to the Pentagon's own figures, U.S. and Coalition casualties in Afghanistan are steadily rising. Last month was a record high for the number of coalition forces killed. March and April were also the worst respective months of the war in terms of casualties - for U.S. forces, Coalition forces and Afghan civilians. A poll last month by the International Council on Security and Development found that Afghans are overwhelmingly opposed to the current U.S. strategy with nearly 8 in 10 believing that U.S. and Coalition operations are -bad for their country.- These are serious matters, serious consequences, of the strategy the U.S. will pursue at least through next year. We need a change in direction now, Mr. Speaker, not 18 months from now. We are borrowing nearly $10 billion a month to pay for military operations in Afghanistan. Borrowing! We're not paying for it - we're putting it on our national credit card. Our kids and grandkids will pay the price. Each day we remain in Afghanistan increases that burden. We are currently having debates about how to reduce our deficit and debt. There are some who have advocated deep cuts in programs that help the poor, in Pell Grants, and in infrastructure. For those who support the status quo in Afghanistan, let me ask - Where is the sense in borrowing money to build a bridge or school in Afghanistan that later gets blown up - while telling our cities and towns that we have no money to help them with their needs? It's nuts! Some of our biggest problems, Mr. Speaker, are not halfway around the world, they're halfway down the block. Americans are willing to do whatever is necessary to ensure our national security. But let me remind my colleagues that national security includes economic security. It means jobs. It means rather than nation-building in a far off land, we need to do some more nation building right here at home. Contrary to the tired and ugly rhetoric employed by Senator McCain yesterday towards thoughtful critics of our current strategy in Afghanistan and its consequences, I am not an isolationist. As my colleagues know, I firmly support human rights and the U.S. being engaged around the world. Those who advocate a political solution in Afghanistan are not isolationists. I don't believe we should walk away from the Afghan people. But tens of thousands of U.S. boots on the ground in Afghanistan does little, in my view, to advance the cause of peace, protect the rights of women and ethnic minorities, or strengthen civil society. If you want to protect Afghan women, we must end the violence. You end the violence by ending the war. You end the war through a political solution. I have great respect for President Obama. I believe he has the potential to be a great president. I also realize, as Lyndon Johnson once said, -It's easy to get into war - hard as hell to get out of one.- It is not easy to end this war. It won't be neat or pretty. But I believe with all my heart, it's in our national security interests to focus on al-Qaeda and not waste our precious blood and treasure in a conflict that can only be ended through a political solution. Rather than crafting a compromise and trying to chart a middle course, I believe we need to change course. I urge the President to rethink our Afghan policy; rethink it in a way that brings our troops home sooner rather than later.
06.22.2011	-The drawdown of American forces that the President announced tonight is insufficient. The President is right that we need to shift our strategy in Afghanistan. But a counter-terrorism strategy doesn't need 70,000 boots on the ground, any more than it needed 100,000 boots on the ground. What the president needs to tell us is how - and when - he's going to bring all the troops home. The American people - and, increasingly, the Congress - believe that instead of nation-building in Afghanistan, we need to do some more nation-building right here at home.-
06.22.2011	"I want to congratulate the Bruins for an extraordinary season," said Rep. Jim McGovern. "Throughout the year, they have showed the value of teamwork and commitment. I look forward to seeing Lord Stanley's cup in Massachusetts." share: f t Massachusetts House Delegation Honors Stanley Cup Winners the Boston Bruins With Congressional Resolution All ten members of the Massachusetts delegation in the U.S. House of Representatives congratulated the Boston Bruins on winning the 2010- 2011 Stanley Cup by introducing H. Res 318. -Boston has Beat L.A., Reversed the Curse, Squished the Fish, and now Vanquished Vancouver,- said Rep. Edward J. Markey, dean of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation. -Congratulations to the 2011 Stanley Cup Champions and to every Bruins fan who stuck with them since the days of Bobby Orr. After an historic 7-year run, capturing every major sports title, Boston is unmatched in professional sports in the 21st century.- -Congratulations to our Boston Bruins, a team with great character, grit and talent,- said Rep. Michael Capuano. -You never gave up and you brought great joy to New England. Thank you for a thrilling playoff ride and for bringing the Stanley Cup back to Boston.- -It's hard to believe that it's been 39 years since the Boston Bruins have brought home the Stanley Cup,- said Rep. Stephen F. Lynch. -But the way they played - coming back after being down two games to none - it was worth the wait. This team has given hockey fans throughout New England reason to be proud. The coaches and players embody the perseverance, passion and talent of true champions. I join my colleagues in congratulating all of the Bruins players, coaches and management on this amazing accomplishment.- -Massachusetts can be very proud of the Bruins for their great win of the Stanley Cup and for all of us for the responsible way in which we showed our pride,- said Rep. Barney Frank. -When one of the Bruins got knocked down, they all stood up and showed what it means to be a true team,- said Rep. William R. Keating. -I congratulate the Boston Bruins on bringing the Stanley Cup back to Massachusetts. After a grueling series that went right up to the 7th game, the Bruins showed a lot of heart and determination,- said Rep. John Olver. -The Bruins fought through three game sevens, injuries, and underdog status to bring the Stanley Cup home to Boston,- said Rep. Niki Tsongas. -Their gritty and determined play throughout these playoffs exemplified team and rewarded generations of loyal B's fans from across New England.- "For the first time since 1972, when Bobby Orr and Gerry Cheevers led the Boston Bruins to victory over the New York Rangers, the Stanley Cup is finally returning to Causeway Street,- said Rep. Richard E. Neal. -In what can only be described as an epic series, the gritty Bruins outplayed their arch rival, the Vancouver Canucks, in seven games making them the new sports heroes of New England. Congratulations to Coach Claude Julien, Captain Zdeno Chara and Conn Smythe Trophy winner Tim Thomas and the entire team for an extraordinary series victory that captivated the region for weeks. It's time to get the duck boats ready for another rolling celebration through the streets of Boston." -I join with my Massachusetts colleagues in congratulating the Boston Bruins on winning the Stanley Cup,- said Rep. John Tierney. -After losing the first two games of the Cup Finals, the Bruins fought back by playing hard-nosed hockey and benefiting from the brilliant goaltending of Tim Thomas, the Conn Smythe Trophy winner. B's fans in my district and across the Commonwealth have been waiting 39 years for this moment, and I know that they and so many others were captivated by this special team.- -I want to congratulate the Bruins for an extraordinary season,- said Rep. Jim McGovern. -Throughout the year, they have showed the value of teamwork and commitment. I look forward to seeing Lord Stanley's cup in Massachusetts.- Below is the text of H.Res 318, the Congressional resolution introduced by the Representatives. -Whereas on June 15, 2011, the Boston Bruins won the 2010- 2011 Stanley Cup in a 7 game series with the Vancouver Canucks; Whereas the Vancouver Canucks deserve immense credit for their historic performance during the 2010-2011 hockey season and post-season, in which the Canucks won the President's Trophy for best record in the National Hockey League and made a remarkable post-season run; Whereas the Boston Bruins victory was the first Stanley Cup for the Bruins in 39 years and the sixth title in the 87- year history of the team; Whereas the 2010-2011 Bruins Stanley Cup team honored the careers of all former Bruins greats, including Bobby Orr, team president Cam Neely, ‘‘the Chief'' Johnny Bucyk, Terry O'Reilly, Milt Schmidt, Eddie Shore, Raymond Bourque, and all the players who have donned a Bruins Jersey in the team's rich history; Whereas the Bruins were led to the Stanley Cup Finals this season by the remarkable goaltending of Tim Thomas and Tuukka Rask, the outstanding leadership of Zdeno Chara, Patrice Bergeron, and Mark Recchi, and the relentless effort of Shawn Thornton, Dennis Seidenberg, David Krejci, Andrew Ference, Michael Ryder, Johnny Boychuk, Thomas Kaberle, and Vancouver native Milan Lucic; Whereas Gregory Campbell, Dan Paille, Shawn Thornton, and Chris Kelly contributed with points, hits, energy, faceoff wins, and penalty kills to help steer the Bruins to victory; Whereas the 2010-2011 season produced new Bruins stars, including Tyler Seguin, Rich Peverley, Brad Marchand, Adam McQuaid, and Nathan Horton who, despite missing the final 4 games of the historic Stanley Cup run with a severe concussion, scored two heroic game 7 winning goals against Montreal and Tampa Bay to put the Bruins in position to win their first title in 39 years; Whereas the Bruins, in front of playoff MVP net minder Tim Thomas who broke the record for the most saves in play- off history, allowed just 8 goals over the 7 game Stanley Cup Final; Whereas Patrice Bergeron displayed incredible determination over the course of four seasons, battling back from two major concussions and after suffering another head in- jury in game 2 of the Eastern Conference Finals, to score the game winning goal of game 7 in the Stanley Cup Final; Whereas Mark Recchi, who won the Stanley Cup for the third time in his career, displayed tremendous leadership and set an example for the team's corps of young players by contributing three points in game 6 of the Stanley Cup Finals to force a decisive game 7 in Vancouver; Whereas Bruins coach Claude Julien joins the legendary Art Ross and Tom Johnson on an exclusive list of Bruins coaches to win the Stanley Cup; Whereas Peter Chiarelli, General Manager for the Boston Bruins, built a team centered on hard work, sacrifice, and physical play; Whereas Massachusetts is the only state to have sports teams win the NFL, MLB, NBA, and NHL championships in the 21st century: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) congratulates— (A) the Boston Bruins for winning the 2010-2011 National Hockey League Stanley Cup and the players, coaches, support staff, owners, and executives whose ability, hard work, dedication, and spirit made this season possible; and (B) the Vancouver Canucks for their extraordinary success during the 2010-2011 season in winning the President's Trophy and the Western Conference Championship; and (2) directs the Clerk of the House of Representatives to transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to— (A) Bruins coach Claude Julien; (B) Bruins general manager Peter Chiarelli; (C) Bruins president Cameron Neely; and (D) Bruins owner Jeremy Jacobs
06.21.2011	"A token drawdown of a few thousand troops is not acceptable. The American people - and, increasingly, the Congress - are demanding more fundamental change in our policy," said Congressman Jim McGovern. "We will continue to make the point that instead of nation-building in Afghanistan, we need to do some more nation-building right here at home." share: f t Bipartisan Coalition in Congress Sends Letter to President Obama Urging Significant and Sizable Withdrawal from Afghanistan In anticipation of President Obama's expected troop withdrawal announcement Wednesday, Representatives John Garamendi (D-CA), Justin Amash (R-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Walter Jones (R-NC) today are leading a bipartisan Congressional delegation in sending a letter to President Obama urging a significant and sizable withdrawal from Afghanistan. Signatures are still being gathered, and the letter will be sent to the President at the end of the day. 57 have signed the letter to date, with a final list to be posted here later today. -We urge a significant and sizable reduction of U.S. military forces in Afghanistan beginning July 2011,- the bipartisan group of Members of Congress wrote. -With Osama bin Laden killed and Al Qaeda largely driven from Afghanistan, it is time to accelerate the transfer of security responsibilities to the Government of Afghanistan and to reduce the U.S. military footprint there.- Complete text of the letter and current signatories are below. -Congress must send a strong message that a token withdrawal is unacceptable,- Congressman John Garamendi said. -Maintaining anywhere near 100,000 troops in Afghanistan, at a cost of $10 billion per month, is an ineffective strategy for fighting terrorism and an unjustified drain on our budget. Our brave troops have largely succeeded in driving out Al Qaeda from Afghanistan. Our troops in Afghanistan continue to fight valiantly, but they are now on the wrong mission.- -Bringing home a limited number of troops will continue to prolong this war which is already the longest in America's history,- said Congressman Walter Jones. -Bin Laden is gone, Al Qaeda is gone - it is time to declare victory and bring our brave men and women home.- "Almost three out of four Americans want to bring our troops home from Afghanistan, and we can no longer afford to spend over $100 billion a year on this war that has no military solution. That why I believe a complete withdrawal from Afghanistan should begin immediately," said Representative Barbara Lee. "A modest reduction of 30,000 troops should not be considered significant since it would merely return us to 2009 and pre-escalation troop levels. A more ‘significant' and reasonable goal would be the withdrawal of 50,000 combat troops by the end of this year which is only half of the roughly 100,000 troops currently on the ground." -A token drawdown of a few thousand troops is not acceptable. The American people - and, increasingly, the Congress - are demanding more fundamental change in our policy,- said Congressman Jim McGovern. -We will continue to make the point that instead of nation-building in Afghanistan, we need to do some more nation-building right here at home.- The Letter to the President: Dear Mr. President, We urge a significant and sizable reduction of U.S. military forces in Afghanistan beginning July 2011. With Osama bin Laden killed and Al Qaeda largely driven from Afghanistan, it is time to accelerate the transfer of security responsibilities to the Government of Afghanistan and to reduce the U.S. military footprint there. In the wake of the horrific September 11th attacks, the U.S. resolved to eliminate terrorist training camps in Afghanistan and to bring those who would harm innocent civilians to justice. Our troops have fought bravely, and now fewer than 100 Al Qaeda operatives are estimated to remain in Afghanistan. The recent killing of Osama bin Laden, for which you and members of our military and intelligence communities should be commended, is the capstone of that initial mission. International terrorist networks remain a grave threat to the United States, as Al Qaeda affiliates now have a significant presence in countries like Yemen, Somalia, and Pakistan. But maintaining anywhere near 100,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan is not an effective means of combating a global and decentralized enemy. Our economic vitality is a crucial component of our national security. The nearly decade-long war in Afghanistan drains our resources, even as we face serious economic challenges at home. To date, we have spent nearly half a trillion dollars on the Afghan war, and that price tag increases by $10 billion every month we remain. When we calculate the long-term costs of this war, including servicing our debt and caring for our veterans, the dollar figures are almost inconceivable. These funds are needed for rebuilding our own economy, reducing the deficit and generating jobs for Americans. Ultimately, this war will end not on the battlefield but through political negotiations. As we scale down our military operations in Afghanistan we need to continue our diplomatic efforts, pushing for a negotiated settlement that includes the Government of Afghanistan and other parties interested in establishing peace and stability. The American public is weary of a war with no end in sight, and we call upon you to bring the longest war in our nation's history to a close. Beginning in July of this year, we urge a swift, significant and sizable drawdown of U.S. troops from Afghanistan. Sincerely, John Garamendi (D-CA) Justin Amash (R-MI) Barbara Lee (D-CA) Walter Jones (R-NC) James P. McGovern (D-MA) Timothy Johnson (R-IL) Peter Welch (D-VT) Ron Paul (R-TX) George Miller (D-CA) John Duncan (R-TN) Louise Slaughter (D-NY) Tim Bishop Earl Blumenauer Bruce Braley Michael Capuano Judy Chu David Cicilline Hansen Clarke Yvette Clarke Steve Cohen John Conyers Jerry Costello Peter DeFazio Rosa DeLauro Keith Ellison Sam Farr Bob Filner Barney Frank Marcia Fudge Raul Grijalva Luis Gutiérrez Maurice Hinchey Mazie Hirono Mike Honda Jesse Jackson, Jr. Dennis Kucinich Dave Loebsack Ben Lujan Carolyn Maloney Mike Michaud Jim Moran Chris Murphy Jerrold Nadler John Olver Donald Payne Chellie Pingree Jared Polis Charlie Rangel Laura Richardson Kurt Schrader José Serrano Albio Sires Pete Stark Edolphus Towns Niki Tsongas Lynn Woolsey John Yarmuth
06.15.2011	Opposing an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill that would defund the McGovern-Dole food program, Congressman McGovern talks about his experiences with the program. share: f t "This is simply a bad amendment. It eliminates funding for one of our signature programs to reduce childhood hunger in the world. "I helped establish the George McGovern-Robert Dole International Food for Education Program - first as a pilot project in 2000 and then as a permanent program in the 2002 farm bill. It has always had strong bipartisan support, including Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson and then-Congressmen, now-Senators John Thune and Jerry Moran. "McGovern-Dole has one basic goal: Provide at least one nutritious meal to some of the world's most vulnerable children in a school setting. It has reduced the incidence of hunger among school-age children. It has increased school enrollments and attendance. It has increased the support of families and communities for education, especially for girls. "McGovern-Dole is a proven success. Instead of cutting its funding, let alone eliminating it, we should be scaling it up. "The cuts to McGovern-Dole already in the bill would end school meals for more than 400,000 children. Eliminating the funding would, literally, take the food out of the mouths of over 5 million of the world's most vulnerable children. "Mr. Chairman, it's bad enough to ignore hungry children. It's even worse to give a hungry child a meal - to give their parents hope for a better future - and then take it away. "These are not just numbers in a bill. These are real living, breathing human beings - real children who are in school - many for the very first time - because the U.S. is working with local communities to advance education and nutrition. "I've visited some of these programs around the world. I respectfully suggest to those who want to eliminate them to first go see them with their own eyes - what they are doing on the ground, look these children, their parents, their teachers, their community leaders in the eye - and make sure you want to tell them you don't care if they go hungry or get a chance to go to school. "In Colombia, I visited a program on the outskirts of Bogota. On barren hillsides, surrounded by shanties housing thousands of internally displaced families, children were receiving a school breakfast and lunch. Mothers and grandmothers were training as cooks, preparing the meals. Clearly visible in the cafeteria were USAID bags of grains, beans and lentils. "One mother came up to me and said, -Please thank the American people when you go back home. I couldn't feed my children. I couldn't send them to school. I was afraid my son was going to join the paramilitaries or the guerrillas just to get food. Now my son is getting fed and he's staying in school. Please tell the American people thank you.- Opposing an amendment to the Agriculture Appropriations bill that would defund the McGovern-Dole food program, Congressman McGovern talks about his experiences with the program. "In Nairobi, Kenya, in the largest slum in the world, I went to a McGovern-Dole breakfast and lunch program. I was amazed by the students' energy and achievements. The school principal showed me how they store and prepare the U.S. commodities that feed her students, and how all the students know that this is a program from the people of the United States. "I ate a cereal mush made from yellow peas grown by American farmers. The kids dug into this food like it was manna from heaven. One little boy would take a bite, and then scoop a small amount out of his bowl and put it into his pockets. He was taking food home to his younger siblings who don't get anything to eat. "Outside of Nairobi is a school for girls where McGovern-Dole provides a hot lunch. I helped cook and serve the meal of U.S. bulgar wheat and locally grown vegetables. One student told me how grateful she was to go to school and eat every day. "She grew up in a village over a hundred miles away. When she was twelve, her father told her she had to marry a much older man. She refused. Her father ordered her to go to her uncle's house, get his machete and bring it back to him. She knew he was going to kill her. She ran away, walking alone for days, because she had heard of this school. When I met her she was fifteen, healthy and well-fed, and at the top of her class. I knew I was talking to someone who could be president some day. In the very best way, this young woman will never forget us. "And in the very worst way, when we take food away from children, families and schools, those communities will never forget us either. They won't forget that we took away their children's future. I wouldn't forget if it were my child. Would you? "Mr. Chairman - there are many ways to advance U.S. national security and economic interests abroad. Education and child nutrition are very much at the top of the list. "Support the McGovern-Dole program. Reject this amendment."
06.14.2011	
06.13.2011	Today, Hess LNG Monday announced it is withdrawing its proposal for a liquefied natural gas terminal at Weaver's Cove. U.S. Rep. McGovern's statement is below. share: f t -This is terrific news for the Southcoast,- Rep. McGovern said. -At long last, Hess has realized that we were going to continue to fight and fight until they pulled the plug on their ill-considered proposal. I look forward to working with local, state and federal officials to help promote safe and sensible development in Fall River.-
06.10.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern and U.S. Sen. John Kerry today announced that the Hopkinton Fire Department has been awarded $202,274, under the Assistance to Firefighters program. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN, U.S. SEN. JOHN KERRY ANNOUCE FUNDING FOR HOPKINTON FIRE DEPARTMENT U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern and U.S. Sen. John Kerry today announced that the Hopkinton Fire Department has been awarded $202,274, under the Assistance to Firefighters program. -This substantial grant is excellent news for Hopkinton,- Rep. McGovern said. -I believe that homeland security starts with hometown security. It's critical that we provide local first responders with the resources they need to protect our communities. The federal government must be a partner in that effort. I will continue to be a strong supporter of this Assistance to Firefighter Grant program, and I'll work to maintain its funding in Congress.- "The Hopkinton Fire Department would like to thank U. S. Rep Jim McGovern's office for assisting us in securing this safety equipment grant which will replace our aging Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA). This new equipment will enhance firefighter safety, increase equipment standardization with local mutual aid fire departments and increase the efficiency of our service delivery to the citizens of Hopkinton," said Hopkinton Fire Chief Ken Clark. The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration, part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. On March 1, 2003, FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. FEMA's continuing mission within the new department is to lead the effort to prepare the nation for all hazards and effectively manage federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. More information can be found at www.firegrantsupport.com
06.08.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA3) officially announced today that Meghan Murray, a student at Bishop Feehan High School in Attleboro, is the winner of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition for Massachusetts' Third Congressional District. McGovern will host Murray and other winners at a reception on Friday, June 10th at his Worcester office, featuring the winning pieces. Murray's work will hang in the United States Capitol for the next year. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA3) officially announced today that Meghan Murray, a student at Bishop Feehan High School in Attleboro, is the winner of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition for Massachusetts' Third Congressional District. McGovern will host Murray and other winners at a reception on Friday, June 10th at his Worcester office, featuring the winning pieces. Murray's work will hang in the United States Capitol for the next year, alongside other winning artwork from throughout the country. Murray will attend an unveiling ceremony at the Capitol with Congressman McGovern later this month. -I am consistently amazed by the artwork being produced by students throughout my district. These talented young artists demonstrate once again why we need to support strong arts funding and programs in our schools.- -I especially want to congratulate Meghan, whose watercolor is both technically well-executed, and emotionally evocative.- This year's competition saw submissions from dozens of students throughout the district, with over 30 students receiving 1st, 2nd, 3rd prizes or Honorable Mention recognition. Submitted artwork was also featured at a gallery show in May at the Narrows Center for the Arts in Fall River, MA. Other winners include: Meghan Shaw of Wachusett Regional High School(Computer Generated) Linh Hoang of South High School(Drawings: Pen/Ink/Marker/Scratchboard) Julia Dalton of Wachusett Regional High School(Watercolor) Amberlynn Narvie of Wachusett Regional High School(Pastels/Printmaking/Woodprinting/Charcoal) Erin Kelley of Notre Dame Academy(Collage) Monika Soninska of Wachusett Regional High School(Oil/Acrylic) Renie Faddoul of Marlborough High School(Photography) Tania Papindrea of Wachusett Regional High School(Mixed Media) Winning artwork will hang at McGovern's district offices for the next year. The competition, which was initiated by Congress in 1982, includes hundreds of thousands of high school students from across the nation. One piece from each congressional district will be displayed in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, DC. UPCOMING: Reception for Congressional Art Winners with Congressman Jim McGovern Jim McGovern's Worcester District Office 34 Mechanic Street 6:00pm-7:00pm
06.03.2011	U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ANNOUNCES GRANTS FOR VETERANS INC. U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-03) today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded over $650,000 to Veterans Inc. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ANNOUNCES GRANTS FOR VETERANS INC. U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-03) today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded over $650,000 to Veterans Inc. The funding will be used to continue Veterans Inc.'s Veterans Employment and Training Program, providing training and employment services to veterans, to include Homeless Female Veterans and Homeless Veterans with Families (HFVHVF) ($94,220), and Veterans Workforce Investment Program (VWIP) ($300,000). In addition, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Department of Veterans' Services received Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program (HVRP) to provide urban area homeless veterans with these same employment and training resources through sub-grantee Veterans Inc. (Total grant to DVS: $300,000; Veterans Inc. receives $265,000 for direct services). -Veterans Inc. has been doing extraordinary work for decades now,- Rep. McGovern said. -I'm pleased that the Department of Labor has made this funding available to help Veterans Inc. continue to serve those who have served our nation so well.- -The fact we have homelessness in this country is tragic. The fact we have homeless veterans who have honorably served is a disgrace. And we owe it to these brave men and women to not have to face another battle when they return home and seek employment,- said Veterans Inc. President and CEO Vincent J. Perrone, Lieutenant Colonel, USAF (retired). -We are so pleased to be able to continue our highly regarded and comprehensive employment and training programs to serve a greater number of veterans in need, including those Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom veterans,- said Denis Leary, Veterans Inc. Executive Director. Services available free of charge to qualifying veterans include assessment, development of career plans, employment preparation, workshops, job training and specialized comprehensive job placement as well as housing, case management, and referral services. Employment specialists travel throughout the service areas to work with veterans in need. Veterans Inc. also works with the Division of Career Services' sites and other service providers to supplement employment and training assistance to the underserved veteran population. Training programs includes basic computer skills, money management, Technology/Certification in A+, Network+ and Microsoft programs, Green Jobs/Renewable Energy Fields, Healthcare, Security, Construction Supervisor and more. Training takes place at provider partner sites, onsite at one of Veterans Inc. locations in Worcester or Shrewsbury, MA, in their Mobile Education Center, a handicapped accessible, 32-foot RV equipped with twelve computer workstations and a satellite to access the Internet in real time and allows outreach of computer training services throughout Massachusetts. About Veterans Inc.: Veterans Inc., a private non-profit organization, is the largest provider of services to veterans and their families in New England. Since 1991, Veterans Inc. has helped more than 40,000 veterans with housing, employment and training, health and wellness, and outreach services. The organization is a national leader in ending homelessness among veterans, with one of the highest rates in the nation - 85% - for transitioning veterans out of homelessness. Its clinical case management approach earned Veterans Inc. a -Best Practice- citation from the U.S. Department of Labor and the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans, and two national awards for outstanding performance.
06.03.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern has joined his Massachusetts' colleagues in requesting a Presidential Disaster Declaration in the aftermath of the devastating tornadoes. share: f t A full copy of the letter is attached below.
05.31.2011	87 Democratic Members of the House, led by U.S. Reps. Jim McGovern (MA), Jan Schakowsky (IL) and Sam Farr (CA) today sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on the human rights situation in Honduras. This week, the Organization of American States (OAS) is meeting to consider reinstating Honduras to the OAS. The letter cites reported abuses against journalists, campesinos, human rights defenders, labor activists, and opposition voices. It asks Secretary Clinton and the U.S. Embassy to press the Honduran government to end abuses by official security forces and to suspend U.S. aid to the military and the police until mechanisms are in place to ensure security forces are held accountable for abuses. It further urges that the State Department press the Honduran government to implement the measures called for by the IACHR/OAS to protect journalists and human rights defenders; denounce the violence and threats made against human rights defenders, including attacks against the non-governmental Commission of Truth; and support the rule of law by bringing to justice the perpetrators and intellectual authors of human rights abuses that have occurred since June 2009. “As member States prepare to meet and reinstate Honduras to the OAS, it’s important to remember that there are serious human rights issues in Honduras that urgently need to be addressed,” Rep. McGovern said.
05.27.2011	Saturday, June 4th Bagels and Cream 585 E. Washington St., North Attleboro 8:00 a.m. -9:00 a.m. Purple Rooster 105 South Street, Plainville 10:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. Cafe Assisi 667 South Street #5, Wrentham 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Café Dolce 17 East Central Street, Franklin 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.m. Coffee Sensations 116 Main Street, Medway 3:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m.
05.26.2011	"Today's strong bipartisan vote represents a huge step forward in the effort to bring the war in Afghanistan to a close. I hope the President recognizes that there is a growing consensus in Congress and the country that our policy needs to change. Last year, I offered a similar amendment that got 162 votes - in a Democratic House." View House Clerk's vote totals here McGovern's floor speech:
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Jim McGovern offered an Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 calling for a plan and timeframe on the accelerated transition of military operations to Afghan authorities. His remarks, as prepared, are below. share: f t "Too many people have died in Afghanistan. Since January, I have attended three funerals in my district alone of young men who have sacrificed their lives there. "Tens of thousands more have been wounded - and the suicide rate among our veterans from Afghanistan and Iraq is soaring. "There is no clear mission. The Karzai government is corrupt. We continue to borrow money to pay for this war. "We need to re-think what we're doing in Afghanistan. "It's time to define the plan to bring our uniformed men and women home to their families and their communities. "This is the longest war in our nation's history. It's no longer about al-Qaeda "I've met with our troops in Afghanistan. I've met with them after they've come home. They're incredible. "Politicians put them into harm's way. And we now have an obligation to get them safely home. "President Obama has promised a drawdown of U.S. troops in July. Now we hear that might just be a token drawdown. This amendment - and the vote on this amendment - can send the President a clear signal of support for a meaningful drawdown of troops. "Help him do what the American people want him to do - Bring our troops home - and invest in America. "We need to safeguard our national security. But many of our greatest problems aren't halfway around the world - they're halfway down the block. "Rather than nation-building in Afghanistan, we need more nation-building right here at home. "Mr. Chairman, this is not a partisan issue. It's about doing what's right for our troops and for the nation. "If you've ever even once thought that we need to do something different in Afghanistan - that it's time to re-think our policy - that we need to bring our troops home to their loved ones - then this is the amendment to support. "I ask all my colleagues to vote for this amendment."
05.09.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern today asked the White House to ensure that Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program(SNAP) cuts be taken off the table. share: f t Congressman McGovern asks White House to take SNAP cuts off the table Congressman Jim McGovern today asked the White House to ensure that Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program(SNAP) cuts be taken off the table. In a letter to Vice President Joe Biden, McGovern wrote that SNAP has "saved literally millions of lives," and said that "given the extraordinary need in our country...SNAP should not be singled out for cuts, whether for deficit reduction or for other purposes." A copy of the letter to Vice President Biden is attached below.
05.09.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern joined Senator John Kerry and the Mass. congressional delegation today, announcing that Massachusetts will benefit from more than $845 million in rejected high speed rail funding originally offered to Florida. share: f t Senator John Kerry, along with Representatives Edward Markey, Richard Neal, John Olver, John F. Tierney, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Niki Tsongas, and William Keating, today announced that Massachusetts will benefit from more than $845 million in rejected high speed rail funding originally offered to Florida. The United States Department of Transportation today awarded $795 million to the Northeast Corridor. Among other improvements, these funds will be used to increase speeds from 135 to 160 miles per hour on critical track segments, improve on-time performance, and add additional seats for passengers. Additionally, Massachusetts will benefit from $50.8 million in other grants. Specifically, $20,822,341 was awarded for improvements on the Downeaster track - a large portion of which will be used for the construction of a second track on a 10.4 mile section of single track between Wilmington and Andover. Another $30,000,000 grant was awarded for improvements along the New Haven-Springfield track, including construction of additional double tracking on the Hartford, Connecticut to Springfield section of the New Haven - Springfield Corridor. When Florida Governor Rick Scott rejected $2.4 billion in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funding for high speed rail projects in the state, Kerry along with the Massachusetts House delegation supported several bids to redistribute the dollars to Massachusetts. -We didn't waste a split second, we worked the phones, wrote the letters, and pursued this money because we know what it will do across New England,- said Sen. Kerry. -Florida's loss is our gain and Massachusetts stands ready to put this money to good use starting today. I couldn't be prouder of our delegation's creativity and initiative.- -Today's announcement of $845 million in high speed rail funds is a victory for Massachusetts commuters that will position our transportation system for the future and put people to work on a critically needed infrastructure project," said Rep. Markey. "Our delegation in Congress, with excellent leadership from our state, teamed up to make the case for improved performance along the New England Corridor, and I look forward to the increase in convenience, on time performance and ridership that these improvements will produce in the future." -As a longtime supporter of high speed rail in New England and throughout the Northeast corridor, today's announcement brings us one step closer to achieving that important goal,- said Rep. Neal. -Making transportation quicker and more convenient will benefit our entire region, and it will also help grow the economy and much needed create jobs.- -I am extremely pleased that the Department of Transportation has recognized the great need to fund passenger rail in Massachusetts and the Northeast,- said Rep. Olver. -These funds will support the improvement and further development of rail in the Northeast Corridor—the premier passenger rail line in the country.- -The federal funds awarded to the New England Corridor will provide Massachusetts with critical support to enhance passenger rail service across ourstate,- said Rep. Tierney. -These projects, including the more than $20 million for the improvement of tracks between Wilmington and Andover, will increase on-time rail performance for area residents, create jobs and strengthen economic growth for local cities and towns.- -This is terrific news for the Massachusetts economy,- said Rep. McGovern. -Increasing the speed along the Northeast Corridor will make the service much more attractive.- -I am pleased that Massachusetts will have access to these federal stimulus funds which were rejected by the state of Florida,- said Rep. Capuano. -They will be used for important high speed rail improvements in the Northeast Corridor which will help rail passengers reach their destinations more quickly and attract additional riders.- -The federal funds awarded today will help improve our transportation infrastructure both in the Fifth District and in Massachusetts,- said Rep. Niki Tsongas. -These types of rail projects create jobs, decrease commute times and promote economic development which is why I will continue to advocate for these types of investments in our communities.- -Strengthening Americans' access to mass transit and railways has been a top priority of the Obama Administration, and one that I thoroughly support,- said Rep. Keating. -Our country's aging infrastructure needs modernization - perhaps nowhere more than in the New England Corridor, which is a heavily traveled region. An added bonus is that high speed trains have the potential to be more fuel-efficient and environmentally sound than congested interstates and highways full of commuters in their cars. I applaud the US Department of Transportation's decision to redirect these funds to essential rail projects throughout New England. Residents from all corners of Massachusetts will directly benefit from track improvements, increased speeds and rail additions. This is a huge win for the Commonwealth.-
05.05.2011	Jim McGovern (D-MA), today introduced new, bipartisan legislation to require the Obama Administration to present an exit strategy for U.S. forces from Afghanistan. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN INTRODUCES BIPARTISAN BILL TO REQUIRE EXIT STRATEGY FROM AFGHANISTAN U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), today introduced new, bipartisan legislation to require the Obama Administration to present an exit strategy for U.S. forces from Afghanistan. U.S. Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) is the lead Republican co-sponsor. Specifically, the bill (The -Afghanistan Exit and Accountability Act-) would: Require the President to transmit to Congress a plan with timeframe and completion date on the transition of U.S. military and security operations in Afghanistan to the Government of Afghanistan; Require the President to report quarterly (i.e. every 90 days) on the status of that transition, and the human and financial costs of remaining in Afghanistan, including increased deficit and public debt; and Included in those quarterly reports, the President must disclose to Congress the savings in 5-year, 10-year and 20-year time periods were the U.S. to accelerate redeployment and conclude the transition of all U.S. military and security operations to Afghanistan within 180 days (i.e. 6 months). Rep. McGovern spoke about the bill at a press conference this morning on Capitol Hill. His remarks are below: -As we all saw on Sunday, the men and women of our armed forces and intelligence community are incredible people. The killing of Osama bin Laden is a welcome development that makes the world a better, safer place. -The question then becomes: now what? Now that bin Laden is dead and Al Qaeda is scattered around the globe, does it really make sense to keep using over 100,000 U.S. troops to occupy Afghanistan and prop up a corrupt government? -I don't think so. -I believe we must use this opportunity to re-examine our policy and to require the Administration to tell us exactly how and when we will end our massive troop presence in Afghanistan. -This morning a bipartisan group of Members introduced the Afghanistan Exit and Accountability Act. -Our bill requires the President to give Congress a concrete strategy and timeframe for bringing our servicemen and women home to their families and communities. -It requires quarterly reports on the human and financial costs of continuing the war - and how much we would save if we withdrew our forces within a reasonable time frame. -That's not too much to ask. -In fact, I believe it's something we owe to the men and women serving so bravely for so long in Afghanistan - and their families. -This war is the longest in our history. There's no end in sight. -To make it worse, we're not even paying for the war. It's on the national credit card. The war in Afghanistan adds $100 billion a year - $2 billion each week, $8 billion each month - to our debt. -We're told that we can't afford vital domestic funding, but we should continue to borrow billions and billions of dollars for nation-building in Afghanistan. That's nuts. Instead, we should be doing some more nation-building right here at home. -On Monday, the Pentagon reported that 1,550 American troops have died in Afghanistan. Last week, another one of my constituents was killed. Tens of thousands more have been wounded. Our soldiers and their families are the only ones being asked to sacrifice. The rest of us are asked to do nothing. -Enough is enough. -The President told us that we will see a substantial drawdown of troops in July. He needs to keep that promise. And he needs to tell us when all of our troops will be coming home, and how much it will keep costing the American people - in sacrificed lives, wounded bodies and minds, and U.S. tax dollars - until this war is finally over. -That's what our bill would require. -One final point. For too long, Congress has ducked its proper oversight responsibilities when it comes to the war in Afghanistan. We've avoided meaningful debate and discussion and have chosen to simply -go along to get along.- -Today we - in a bipartisan way - plan to force an end to that pattern. We will utilize every opportunity available to us to end that inexcusable indifference.-
05.04.2011	The Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission is joining numerous domestic and international organizations from over 100 other countries to celebrate World Press Freedom Day 2011 on May 3. share: f t Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission Celebrates World Press Freedom Day 2011; Underscores Strong Support for Worldwide Freedom of the Press The Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission is joining numerous domestic and international organizations from over 100 other countries to celebrate World Press Freedom Day 2011 on May 3 and welcoming distinguished guests to Washington for the international conference, -21st Century Media: New Frontiers, New Barriers,- sponsored by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The commission supports the ongoing struggle for freedom of journalistic expression in all forms, including online media. The new media complements traditional sources by providing other avenues for a broad array of journalists and citizens to monitor and critique governments and societies. As recent events have shown, new media has been a critical source for raising awareness of human rights violations and attempting to counteract those abuses. All media, however, continue to be at risk by human rights violators targeting both new media bloggers and traditional pen-and-pad journalists. World Press Freedom Day highlights the need to maintain vigilance against attacks on press freedom. In addition, TLHRC co-chairs Reps. Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Jim McGovern (D-MA) said the commission stands with all those courageous journalists who have given their lives in pursuit of uncovering and reporting the truth. -Their courageous sacrifices inspire all those concerned with human rights to continue fighting for the free exchange of information to advance democracy and human dignity,- they said.
05.03.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced today that he has re-introduced bipartisan legislation, the Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act (SHIPA) to extend size and weight limits on "big trucks." Rep. Frank Wolf is the lead Republican co-sponsor of the legislation. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN INTRODUCES ‘BIG TRUCK' SAFETY BILL At a press conference in Washington today, U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern announced that he has re-introduced bipartisan legislation, the Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act (SHIPA) to extend size and weight limits on -big trucks.- Rep. Frank Wolf is the lead Republican co-sponsor of the legislation. SHIPA (HR 1574) will prolong the life of our roads and bridges and make our highways safer by extending the common-sense truck size and weight limits already in place on Interstate highways to the entire National Highway System. Specifically, SHIPA will extend truck weights limits to 80,000 lbs, cap the length of tractor-trailer trucks at 53 feet and freeze the operation of long double and triple trailer trucks on the National Highway System. SHIPA will not take any truck off the road that is currently operating - but it will close loopholes that many states have used that create a confusing patchwork of truck size and weight limits across the country. Rep. McGovern delivered the following remarks at the press conference today: -Like so many of you, I've been fighting against misguided attempts to allow bigger, heavier trucks on our roads for years. Two weeks ago, I reintroduced the Safe Highways and Infrastructure Preservation Act which would maintain the commonsense truck size and weight limits on our highways. -My ‘SHIPA' bill was introduced with 6 bipartisan original cosponsors - 3 Republicans and 3 Democrats. Last Congress, my SHIPA bill had 130 bipartisan cosponsors and I'm confident that we can attract the same, if not more, support this time. -Now, we've all heard supporters of big trucks make various - and often dubious - claims about the economic benefits of bigger trucks. They say big trucks will be more efficient or result in fewer trucks on the road. Unfortunately, the evidence just doesn't support these claims. -The simple fact of the matter is that big trucks don't pay their fair share for the damage they cause to our roads and bridges. -To those who want to increase truck weights to 97,000 pounds - I remind them that these super-sized rigs only pay 50 percent of the costs of the damage they create. -To those who claim that states should have the sole authority to decide if bigger and heavier trucks should be allowed on our roads, I ask them - who's going to pay for the massive damage to our roads and bridges? -We know that the Highway Trust Fund is woefully underfunded. And, nearly every state is facing a projected budget shortfall in Fiscal Year 2012. -If states are serious about increasing truck size and weight, they have to be honest about the increased costs of doing so and figure out a responsible way to pay for them. -It's not fair to stick taxpayers with the burden of paying for the damage and destruction big trucks cause at a time when too many families are already struggling to pay their bills or facing unemployment. -I know that, for so many of you - including many of our speakers - the financial costs associated with big trucks isn't the main reason you're here today. -Too many of you know firsthand the tragic safety costs these big rigs impose on motorists. -Big trucks are dangerous. They're more likely to be involved in crashes. It's just that simple. -I'm willing to bet that nearly everyone here can think of a time when they've been driving on a highway and looked in their rearview mirror to see a big truck closing in on them. It's nerve-wracking to say the least. -As the House and Senate begin work on a Highway Reauthorization bill, we have the opportunity to say loud and clear ‘no' to bigger, heavier trucks. -By sharing the stories of their loved ones, brave victim advocates remind us that, while the economic costs of big trucks are great, the human costs are greater.- H.R. 1574 has been referred to the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.
05.02.2011	"Like all Americans, I felt great relief and a sense of gratitude as I listened to the President's announcement about the death of Osama bin Laden. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to all the men and women in our intelligence and military operations who have labored for a decade to carry out this mission. Let us remember those who lost their lives on 9/11. My thoughts arewith their loved ones, including the many families in Massachusetts and the 3rd District."
04.21.2011	Congressman McGovern expresses deep concern over the deteriorating human rights situation in Bahrain. share: f t Today, Congressman Donald M. Payne, Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health and Human Rights, came together with Congressman James McGovern and Congresswoman Tammy Baldwin to issue the following statement: -We would like to express our deep concern over the deteriorating human rights situation in Bahrain and our support for the aspiration and peaceful struggle of the people of Bahrain. We are troubled by the deteriorating health of prominent human rights activist and nursing mother, Zainab al-Khawaja, who began a hunger strike on April 9th 2011 to raise attention to the violent arrest of her father, husband and brother-in-law. Activists who speak out against the Bahraini government's repressive campaign have endured arrests and threats to themselves or their families. Over the last two weeks, at least four protesters have died in police custody. We are deeply concerned with Bahrain's attempt to stifle peaceful political opposition, including the attack on Bahrain's largest opposition group, the Shiite bloc al-Wafaq. The violent crackdown by Bahraini security forces on protesters and arbitrary arrests of political dissidents must not fall on deaf ears. The United States must not allow political alliances to prevent us from denouncing human rights abuses, particularly when they are perpetrated against peaceful demonstrators. Bahrain must ensure the security of detainees and we urge the Administration to insist on the release of those detained for peacefully opposing the Bahraini regime. We also call for an independent international investigation into the deaths of government-held protesters. The United States must continue to support the democratic aspirations of all people. -
04.20.2011	NEWTON, MA - Senator John Kerry, Congressman Barney Frank and Congressman Jim McGovern today released a jointly-written letter to Steve Grossman, Massachusetts State Treasurer, asking him to investigate -the possibility of divesting all shares of Hess Corporation stock the Commonwealth currently holds until such time as that company ceases to support the ill-conceived construction of a Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) facility in Fall River, MA.- The three members of the Massachusetts delegation have long fought to prevent the siting of an LNG on the Weaver's Cove site in Fall River. The letter states that -for nearly ten years, Hess has pursued a course of action that is in direct opposition to the stated wishes of the city of Fall River and its residents forcing them to spend a considerable amount of time and money trying to protect themselves from this divisive project.-
04.18.2011	Video from this morning's appearance share: f t Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
04.18.2011	Representative James McGovern (D-MA3) today accepted the nomination of his fellow Northeast-Midwest Democratic colleagues to become the new Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition Democratic Co-Chair. share: f t MCGOVERN FILLS NEMW HOUSE COALITION DEMOCRATIC CO-CHAIR VACANCY Representative James McGovern (D-MA3) today accepted the nomination of his fellow Northeast-Midwest Democratic colleagues to become the new Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition Democratic Co-Chair. He joins Rep. Steve LaTourette (R-OH14), the standing Republican Co-Chair, to lead the important bipartisan Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition. -It's a tremendous honor for me to co-chair the Northeast-Midwest Coalition with Congressman LaTourette. Our region faces great challenges, but there are also great opportunities,- McGovern said. "I look forward to working with Congressman McGovern on issues of importance to the Northeast-Midwest region, like brownfields and manufacturing," LaTourette said. The bipartisan membership of the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition, and its Senate counterpart, first joined forces to advance NEMW regional economic and environmental objectives in the 1970s when a population shift to the South and West dramatically diminished the numbers of NEMW Congressional seats. For over thirty years, the bicameral bipartisan NEMW Coalitions, together with the independent non-profit NEMW Institute, have collaborated to bring strong information and bipartisan legislative solutions to the region's unique needs. Issues of major importance to the NEMW organizations are revitalization of older cities, energy efficiency and low income energy assistance programs, manufacturing, and protection and restoration of the region's Great Waters, such as the Great Lakes, Chesapeake Bay, and the Upper Mississippi and Mid-Atlantic River Basins. "Reps. LaTourette and McGovern will be compelling leaders to the region's NEMW Congressional Coalition as they work to bring urgently needed bipartisan solutions to our region's most pressing problems," said Allegra Cangelosi, Northeast-Midwest Institute President. For more information about the Institute, go to www.nemw.org/
04.15.2011	Lawmakers from Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont asked U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Joseph C. Szabo today to support a High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) grant application/ share: f t NEW ENGLAND LAWMAKERS URGE SUPPORT FOR NEW HAVEN-HARTFORD-SPRINGFIELD HIGH-SPEED RAIL PROJECT Lawmakers from Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont asked U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Joseph C. Szabo today to support a High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) grant application that would transform the Amtrak-owned New Haven-Hartford-Springfield line for high-speed service and provide an important gateway for expanding passenger rail throughout New England. In a letter to Secretary LaHood and Administrator Szabo the lawmakers stressed the importance the grant would play in connecting the citizens of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont and spurring economic development in communities along the rail line. The full text of the letter is as follows: April 12, 2011 Honorable Ray LaHood Honorable Joseph C. Szabo Secretary Administrator U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Railroad Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590 Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood and Administrator Szabo: We write to you in support of the High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) grant application submitted by the State of Connecticut, in partnership with Amtrak, Vermont and Massachusetts, to fund Phase 3 of the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield (NHHS) rail project. This important project will transform the Amtrak-owned NHHS rail line into a major passenger rail gateway connecting the communities of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont, and will create an integrated passenger rail network across New England and the broader Northeast Corridor. Connecticut, Massechussets, and Vermont, in partnership with Amtrak, are all committed to a vision of expanded high-speed passenger rail in New England. Completion of the NHHS project is essential to achieving this vision. The NHHS corridor is located in the most densely-populated region of the country and will link communites along the rail line, relieve road congestion, and benefit the environment by reducing harmful emmissions. Along with important environmental and energy use benefits, the project will create an estimated 12,940 new construction-related jobs. Once the project is completed, it will servce as a catalyst for tranist-oriented development and will lay the foundation for sustained economic growth. Most importantly, the improvements will facilitate development of one of the best intercity passenger rail networks in the nation and enhance multi-modal connections to regional commuter and high-speed trains, Bradley international Airport, and the planned New Britain-Hartford busway. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has awarded two grants to Connecticut totalling $160.9 million to upgrade the NHHS rail corridor. This funding, along with $162 million in matching funds from Connecticut, is only sufficient to upgrade phases 1 and 2 of the line between New Haven and Hartford. Phase 3 is required to extend the improvements to Springfield, and to provide the capacity for increased Amtrak service to Vermont and Massachusetts. Thus, completing the NHHS rail project is essential not only to achieve Connecticut's passenger rail plans, but to achieving the transportation objectives of the entire multi-state region. Connecticut is applying for $227 million in federal funding to complete the NHHS rail project and to provide the rail corridor with the capacity to meet the long-term needs of all three states. This will be matched with $97.3 million in state funds. Together with Connecticut's matching funds for Phases 1 and 2 of the project, the state is contributing a total of $259.3 million - 40 percent - towards the cost of upgrading the NHHS rail corridor. In addition, Connecticut is providing the train equipment and maintenance and yard facilities in New Haven at no expense to the project. This level of state funding and in-kind match exceeds that of any other state applying for HSIPR funding. The NHHS rail project includes increasing train speeds to 110 mph, restoring a second track removed in the 1980s, implementing important rail operations and at-grade crossing safety improvements, and upgrading stations in both Connecticut and Massachusetts. These improvement can be implimented within five years. The Environmental Assessment will be completed before the end of this year, design work will be completed in 2013, and Amtrak is planning to install the new track in 2014. Connecticut already owns the equipment that will be used initially on the line and new service is expected to start by 2016. Once completed, the rail line will support approximately 50 daily passenger trains providing fast, frequent ,and reliable service. This project is worthy of federal support and can serve as a successful example of high-speed passenger rail service for the rest of the country. On behalf of our states and the communities we serve, we urge you to postively consider Connecicut's application to complete the NHHS Rail Project and to assist in the resurgence of passenger rail throughout New England. Sincerely, ___________________________ JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN United States Senator ___________________________ RICHARD BLUMENTHAL United States Senator ___________________________ JOHN F. KERRY United States Senator ___________________________ PATRICK J. LEAHY United States Senator ___________________________ BERNARD SANDERS United States Senator ___________________________ ROSA L DELAURO Member of Congress ___________________________ JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress ___________________________ JOE COURTNEY Member of Congress ___________________________ CHRISTOPHER MURPHY Member of Congress ___________________________ JAMES A. HIMES Member of Congress ___________________________ RICHARD E. NEAL Member of Congress ___________________________ JOHN W. OLVER Member of Congress ___________________________ JAMES P. MCGOVERN Member of Congress ___________________________ MICHAEL E. CAPUANO Member of Congress ___________________________ STEPHEN LYNCH Member of Congress ___________________________ WILLIAM R. KEATING Member of Congress ___________________________ PETER WELCH Member of Congress
04.14.2011	U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ANNOUNCES $111,000 TO RENOVATE HOLLISTON PLAYGROUND U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today announced that the National Park Service has awarded $111,587 to renovate the playground at Goodwill Park. The playground is part of a 4.9 acre park that has tennis courts, a ballfield, and open play space. Each piece of play equipment will be accessible for children in wheelchairs or with sensory disabilities. -I have long been a strong champion for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, and I'm pleased that Holliston will be receiving this federal funding,- Rep. McGovern said. -Preserving open space isn't just about huge parcels of land out west - families in urban and suburban communities deserve safe, open green space as well. I look forward to visiting Goodwill Park soon.- The Land and Water Conservation Fund is a partnership program that provides matching funds to states and local communities for acquisition, development and conservation of parks and open space. The program is administered by the National Park Service in partnership with state governments.
04.12.2011	TESTIMONY OF U.S. REPRESENTATIVE JAMES P. McGOVERN (MA-03) SUBOMMITTEE ON STATE, FOREIGN OEPRATIONS AND RELATED PROGRAMS HOUSE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE FISCAL YEAR 2012 APPROPRIATIONS GLOBAL HUNGER, FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS APRIL 13, 2011 Madam Chairwoman, Ranking Member Lowey and Members of the Subcommittee - thank you for allowing me the opportunity to testify today in support of America's global food security, nutrition, agricultural development and hunger programs. I ask unanimous consent that my written testimony be entered into the Record. I ask the Committee to support the President's FY 2012 budget request of: $1.558 billion for the Feed the Future Initiative in the Development Assistance Account; $150 million for nutrition programs in the Global Health and Child Survival Account; and $300 million for the International Disaster Assistance Account for emergency food security and other interventions for vulnerable people in humanitarian crises. I also ask that the Committee provide the funds requested for the Global Agriculture and Food Security Fund for multilateral investments through the U.S. Department of Treasury. We all know that other donors look at the U.S. contribution to determine their own level of funding. It's hard to take other nations to task if we fail to meet our own funding commitments. Madam Chairwoman, I strongly believe that global food security programs are critical to our immediate and long-term national security and economic interests. I do not use these words lightly - or in hopes of taking advantage of a -trendy phrase- in times of hard budget choices. I believe this, and I feel the facts support me. Starting in the last two years of the Bush Administration, the National Intelligence Estimate began to monitor international food insecurity as a potential threat to U.S. national security. During 2007 - 2008, the last global food crisis, there were major food riots in nearly 40 countries. It was a wake-up call for us and the world. In January this year, the U.N. reported that the cost of basic food commodities were at their highest levels since the U.N. created this index. World Bank President Robert Zoellick announced that the Bank's Food Price Index showed food prices are now 29% higher than a year ago. He called upon the G-20 nations to -put food first- on their agendas. This is a global security crisis. The lack of food security contributes to instability. Food was a primary reason people first took to the streets in Tunisia. Food and poverty were at the top of the list in the squares of Egypt. Without greater investments to address food insecurity, we will not be able to significantly reduce the current number of undernourished people in the world. This will have serious implications not only for our efforts to reduce poverty, but for political stability across the globe. Beginning with the Bush Administration, and continuing under the leadership of Secretary Clinton and USAID Administrator Shah, the U.S. has designed a comprehensive strategy to reduce hunger and increase food security, nutrition and agricultural development. Feed the Future is the signature program of this strategy. It works with small farmers and governments to increase agricultural production and strengthen local and regional markets. It aims to reduce hunger, increase incomes and grow economies. Over a defined time period, target nations will markedly improve their ability to feed their own people, and reduce their dependence on U.S. and international aid. Agricultural production is coupled with strong programs to reduce child malnutrition, which robs nations of their future economic potential. These programs fall under your jurisdiction. They are complemented by the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program and P.L. 480 Food for Peace emergency and chronic hunger food aid programs. These two programs fall under the jurisdiction of the Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee. Madam Chairwoman, I have never heard any of my colleagues say that they would like to see more hunger in the world. I've never heard anyone say they want to see more children too weak from hunger to be able to learn. Or that they want more young girls to be forced to work long hours because they are no longer being fed at school. And I've never heard anyone say they would like to see small farmers around the world fail to make a living because they produce too little and what they do harvest can't get to market. But those are the consequences if we fail to invest in Feed the Future, child nutrition and global hunger programs. This comprehensive strategy did not exist in 2008. Congress demanded that it happen. We demanded - on a strongly bipartisan basis - that U.S. agencies come together, plan together, work together, and design and carry out a government-wide strategy that would significantly increase America's ability to reduce global hunger and increase food security. They've done what we asked them to do. Now we must provide the funds required to ensure success. Thank you, Madam Chairwoman.
04.08.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern today called on President Obama to convene a White House conference on Food and Nutrition. A copy of the letter to President Obama is attached below.
04.04.2011	Senator John Kerry, along with Congressman Jim McGovern, today announced that five Massachusetts medical centers and universities will receive $2,488,046 in federal grants awarded through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services share: f t FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 4, 2011 CONTACT: Whitney Smith (Kerry), 202-224-4159 Michael Mershon (McGovern), 202-225-6101 Kerry, McGovern: Massachusetts Wins $2.5 Mil For Medical Research Senator John Kerry, along with Congressman Jim McGovern, today announced that five Massachusetts medical centers and universities will receive $2,488,046 in federal grants awarded through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The funding will go towards advancements in medical research and innovation. -Every federal dollar counts when budget constraints are squeezing many vital efforts. This investment will allow our hospitals to continue finding cutting edge, life saving treatments that save lives,- said Sen. Kerry. -UMass is on the cutting edge of some of the most exciting medical research in the world. I'm very pleased with this federal funding,- said Rep. McGovern The following research projects will receive funding: University of Massachusetts Medical School - Worcester Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biological Chemistry Research $751,662.00 Boston University Medical Campus Heart and Vascular Diseases Research $675,249.00 Fenway Community Health Center Research for Mothers and Children $612,790.00 Children's Hospital Boston Heart and Vascular Diseases Research $501,135.00 Massachusetts Department of Public Health Universal Newborn Hearing Screening and Intervention $300,000.00 Children's Hospital Boston Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolic Research $260,000.00
04.04.2011	4/4/2011 speech on the importance of Hunger Fast 2011 and maintaining funding for hunger programs share: f t "The Hunger Fast of 2011 - the efforts by anti-hunger leaders to highlight the draconian cuts to important, life-saving programs included in H.R. 1, the House Republican budget proposal - continues to expand. Every day, the number of hunger fast participants increases. Every day, awareness of these cuts to those programs that provide a circle of protection rises. Every day, the resolve to fight these cuts grows. I'm thankful for and proud of these brave Americans who are giving up food to fight against these mean-spirited and harmful cuts to programs like WIC, as well as other important safety-net programs. This weekend, more joined this effort - including the heads and members of SEIU, MoveOn, and many others. Budgets are moral documents and the cuts in H.R. 1 cross that moral line. I stand with the participants of Hunger Fast in opposition to H.R. 1. Please go to www.hungerfast.org for more information
03.31.2011	Under the GOP voting rules for labor, NO member of Congress would have been elected in 2010. share: f t < CONGRESSMAN MCGOVERN'S REMARKS AS PREPARED ON H.R. 658: Here we go again. Instead of bringing meaningful legislation to create jobs to the floor of the House, the new Republican majority continues to show just how out-of-touch they are. Two weeks ago it was cutting off funding for NPR. Yesterday it was private school vouchers in Washington, DC. But today's bill is even worse. Because this bill will actually destroy jobs. H.R. 658 starts by reducing the Federal Aviation Administration's funding back to Republicans' favorite -sound-bite- number of FY 2008 levels. We know that every $1 billion of federal investment in infrastructure creates or sustains approximately 35,000 jobs. That's 35,000 Americans who could pay their mortgages and stay in their homes. 35,000 Americans that could better afford to put their kids through college. 35,000 Americans that could help our economy to recover. Instead, H.R. 658 cuts almost $2 billion from the Airport Improvement Program, which provides grants to airports for constructing and improving runways and terminals. This provision alone will cost us 70,000 jobs over the course of this four-year reauthorization period. H.R. 658's reduced funding levels will result in the layoffs of hundreds of safety inspectors, engineers and support personnel. These drastic cuts will also delay transitioning our out-dated air traffic control system to the modern Next Gen system. Without 21st century infrastructure and technology, the United States can't keep up with our global competitors. It's just that simple. M. Speaker, in the past, FAA reauthorization bills have garnered a great deal of bipartisan support. Unfortunately, this time is very different. Because in addition to the inadequate funding levels, this bill continues an emerging - and disturbing - Republican trend toward destroying the collective bargaining rights for American workers. From Wisconsin to Ohio to Maine, we have seen how Republican politicians are attempting to destroy a century of hard-fought labor protections. This bill represents more of the same. The bill would reverse a National Mediation Board rule that allows a majority of those voting in aviation and rail union elections to decide the outcome. Instead, Tea Party extremists want to count workers who chose not to vote as automatic -no's- against the union. I wonder if my friends on the other side of the aisle would be willing to use that same standard in congressional elections? I wonder if they'd agree that every registered voter who didn't vote - for whatever reason- last November would automatically be counted as a-no- vote against them. I doubt it. Because in the 2010 midterm elections, 40.9 percent of eligible voters cast ballots nationwide. Under the standard in this bill, not a single current Member of Congress would have won election last year. Not one. Let me make this a little more clear - neither I nor my colleague from the other side of the aisle, the new Member representing the 8th District of Florida, would be standing here today if this undemocratic standard is enacted. In fact, my friend from Florida would have received only 23.1% of the vote - well below the 50% threshold included in this bill that he supports today. I ask my friend from Florida, where in the Constitution does it say that any registered voter who doesn't cast vote in an election has their vote count as a -no-? If this standard doesn't make sense for Members of Congress - if we're unwilling to use it on ourselves - then it isn't fair for working people trying to organize. M. Speaker, this bill unfortunately abandons a long and proud tradition of bipartisanship on the Transportation Committee, on which I am honored to say I once served. I urge my colleagues to reject this rule and the underlying bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
03.23.2011	Congressman McGovern's statement on Libya. share: f t -For several weeks now I have been calling for an internationally-enforced no-fly-zone over Libya in order to prevent Colonel Qadaffi from slaughtering his own people. I agree with President Obama that U.S. ground troops should not be committed to this effort, and that our international partners should soon take the lead. Whether or not Qadaffi remains the leader of Libya must, in the end, be up to the Libyan people. I am troubled about pressure to expand the military operation and the many unanswered questions about Libyan opposition forces. I urge the House leadership to call the Congress back into session as soon as possible so that Congress can exercise its constitutional responsibility to clearly spell out the mission and limits of U.S. military engagement in Libya. And I urge the Obama Administration to consult with Congress and to engage us at every possible opportunity as this crisis continues to unfold.-
03.17.2011	U.S. Rep. McGovern and colleagues issued a memo to the administration outlining several necessary conditions before the President submits the Colombia Free Trade Agreement to the House. share: f t McGOVERN, DEMOCRATIC MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ISSUE MEMO TO OBAMA ADMINISTRATION ON COLOMBIA FREE TRADE AGREEMENT Six Democratic members of the House, led by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and U.S. Rep. George Miller (D-CA) today issued a detailed memo to the Obama Administration outlining several necessary conditions before the President submits the Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) to the House for consideration. The text of the letter to Obama, a copy of the full memo and a fact chart on violence in Colombia are attached. In an accompanying letter to President Obama, the Members write, -[a]t a time of economic uncertainty, with millions of families across our country struggling to support themselves, it is our responsibility as Members of Congress to do everything in our power to promote and protect American jobs. One of the most important ways we can safeguard the ability of American families to make a living and keep their jobs is by guaranteeing they are not in competition with workers in other countries whose wages are kept low not simply because their countries are poor, but because they lack the essential democratic rights that American workers have to improve their standards of living - the right to speak out, to protest, to organize unions, to bargain collectively and directly with their employers, and to freely support political efforts to improve their economic condition. Colombia, sadly, stands out as a country where wages are kept low and workers are repressed through widespread violence against employees trying to better their lot.- The memo outlines the Members' concerns on issues including violence against trade unionists and other human rights defenders in Colombia, impunity and worker rights. It also outlines concrete, achievable measures that must be undertaken in Colombia before the Administration submits the FTA for Congressional consideration. In addition to Reps. McGovern and Miller, the memo was also signed by U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), U.S. Rep. Michael Michaud (D-ME), U.S. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and U.S. Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-CA). CLICK HERE TO READ THE MEMO TO PRESIDENT OBAMA
03.16.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-3) introduced two amendments today to a GOP bill eliminating NPR subsidies today. His prepared remarks to the Rules Committee are below. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-3) introduced two amendments today to a GOP bill eliminating NPR subsidies today. His prepared remarks to the Rules Committee are below: -Mr. Chairman, this bill is a bad idea. We all know what's going on here. The reason this bill is before us is that a discredited, right-wing activist recently made a selectively-edited, 11 minute video of a two-hour conversation. The target of his little sting was a fundraising executive at NPR who no longer works there. That executive made what appeared to be disparaging remarks about the Republican Party. Now, if you look at what he actually said, in full context, it's clear that he was paraphrasing what other Republicans had said about the direction of the party. In any case, there is absolutely no reason to cut off funds for NPR because of this issue. There is no reason to jeopardize the news and entertainment that millions and millions of Americans rely on and enjoy. But if you insist on going down this road, Mr. Chairman, then we should be -fair and balanced- in the way we do it. Over the past several years, it has become clear that the Fox News channel is wildly biased. They continue to employ a talk show host who called President Obama a racist. They continue to employ several prospective Republican Presidential candidates as -analysts,- giving them hours and hours of free air time. And their parent company has donated millions to GOP-linked groups. My amendment would prohibit federal funds - taxpayer dollars - from being used for advertising on the partisan, political platform of Fox News. If my friends on the other side of the aisle want to strip funding from NPR because they believe - wrongly, in my view - that NPR is biased, then we should be given the same opportunity. Mr. Chairman, some of my Republican colleagues have talked about the need for this bill because of concerns about the deficit. They don't believe that the federal taxpayer should subsidize public radio. But the federal government subsidizes media companies all the time. According to a Rand Study, the Department of Defense alone spent over $600 million in advertising in 2007. I believe we should figure out whether that spending is a good use of taxpayer dollars. My second amendment would direct the GAO to study how and where this money is being spent.-
03.16.2011	For Immediate Release: March 16, 2010 U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ANNOUNCESFUNDING FOR PLAINVILLE AND ASHLAND FIRE DEPARTMENTS U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today announced that the Plainville Fire Department has been awarded $24,937, and the Ashland Fire Department has been awarded $61,750 under the Assistance to Firefighters program. -I'm very pleased with this funding for Plainville and Ashland,- Rep. McGovern said. -I believe that homeland security starts with hometown security. It's critical that we provide local first responders with the resources they need to protect our communities. The federal government must be a partner in that effort. I will continue to be a strong supporter of this Assistance to Firefighter Grant program, and I'll work to maintain its funding in Congress.- The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration, part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. On March 1, 2003, FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. FEMA's continuing mission within the new department is to lead the effort to prepare the nation for all hazards and effectively manage federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. More information can be found at www.firegrantsupport.com
03.15.2011	
03.14.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern announced today "Back to Work with Congressman Jim McGovern," a series of jobs and employment focused forums around the 3rd Congressional District of Massachusetts designed to give unemployed and underemployed constituents the resources they need to get back into the workforce. share: f t U.S. REP. JIM MCGOVERN ANNOUCES ‘BACK TO WORK' EMPLOYMENT FORUMS Congressman Jim McGovern announced today -Back to Work with Congressman Jim McGovern,- a series of jobs and employment focused forums around the 3rd Congressional District of Massachusetts designed to give unemployed and underemployed constituents the resources they need to get back into the workforce. -I am completely focused - from both a policy level and a constituent services level - on giving people the tools they need to get back to work and giving businesses the resources they need to create jobs,- said McGovern. -Jobs and job creation should clearly be our top priority for Democrats in Congress.- The workshops in Worcester, Marlborough, Attleboro, and Fall River during the week of March 21st will feature speakers, mentors, workshops and information tables from various agencies, including the Massachusetts Department of Workforce Development, Commonwealth Corporation, Workforce Central, Quinsigamond Community College, Bristol Community College, local Career Centers and Workforce Investment Boards. Breakout sessions and tables are scheduled to focus on resume building, interviews, mature job seekers, ESL/GED issues, job search tips, unemployment benefits, and more. Local business representatives and clients who have used the available resources will be on hand to share their successful job search stories. -To get the economy back on track we need to get people back to work. We're lucky to have such a strong group of resources in the 3rd Congressional District to aid job hunters with that process.- WORCESTER: March 22nd, 9:00 AM - Quinsigamond Community College, Harrington Learning Center Room 109(670 West Boylston Street) MARLBOROUGH: March 23rd, 1:00 PM - Memorial Hall (140 Main Street, 3rd Floor) ATTLEBORO: March 24th, 9:00 AM - Bristol Community College (11 Field Street) FALL RIVER: March 24th, 1:00 PM - Bristol Community College, Jackson Art Center (777 Elsbury Street)
03.10.2011	Floor Speech from March 1, 2011 share: f t
03.10.2011	Dear Chairman King: We are writing regarding the Homeland Security Committee's upcoming hearings, which you have stated will focus exclusively on radicalization among Muslim Americans and homegrown terrorism. We agree that Congress and all levels of government have a duty to protect America from terrorism, whether from abroad or homegrown. We are, however, deeply concerned that the stated narrow scope and underlying premises of these hearings unfairly stigmatizes and alienates Muslim Americans. We ask that you reconsider the scope of these hearings and instead examine all forms of violence motivated by extremist beliefs, rather than unfairly focusing on just one religious group. We believe that the tone and focus of these hearings runs contrary to our nation's values. Muslim Americans contribute to our nation's wellbeing in many professions including as doctors, engineers, lawyers, firefighters, business entrepreneurs, teachers, police officers and Members of Congress. Their hard work helps to make our country exceptional. Furthermore, casting a negative light on an entire community--- rather than focusing on actual dangerous fringes will only strain community relationships and trust that local, state and federal law enforcement agencies have worked hard to develop. Muslim Americans are an integral part of our larger American society and should be treated as such, not viewed with suspicion. The choice between our values of inclusiveness and pluralism and our security is a false one. If you wish to examine violent extremism, we ask that you do so by examining violence motivated by extremist beliefs in all its forms. Singling out one religious group and blaming the actions of individuals on an entire community is not only unfair, it is unwise-- and it will not make our country any safer. Sincerely, Pete Stark John Dingell Gwen Moore Bob Filner George Miller Michael Capuano Andre Carson Gregory Meeks Eleanor Holmes Norton Judy Chu Rush Holt Marcia Fudge Bobby Scott Mike Honda Mazie Hirono Jan Schakowsky Maxine Waters Jesse Jackson, Jr. Barbara Lee Betty Sutton Tammy Baldwin Dennis Kucinich Barney Frank Jim McDermott Jared Polis James Moran John Conyers Luis Gutierrez Madeleine Bordallo Betty McCollum Jose Serrano Rick Larsen Sheila Jackson-Lee Raul Grijalva Bobby Rush Earl Blumenauer Lois Capps Al Green Yvette Clarke Eddie Bernice Johnson Jim McGovern David Price Keith Ellison Donna Edwards Doris Matsui Danny Davis Ed Markey Grace Napolitano Lynn Woolsey John Garamendi Dale Kildee Hank Johnson Gary Peters Susan Davis David Cicilline Zoe Lofgren John Lewis
03.01.2011	Speech from the floor of the House of Representatives on March 1, 2011 share: f t Speech from the floor of the House of Representatives on March 1, 2011 At the end of January, the United Nations reported that the cost of basic food commodities - basic grains, vegetable oils, sugar - were at their highest levels since the UN created this index in 1990. Two weeks ago, World Bank President Robert Zoellick announced that the Bank's Food Price Index shows food prices are now 29% higher than they were a year ago. Zoellick warned the G-20 to -put food first- when they next meet. The World Bank estimates that these recent food price spikes have pushed about 44 million people into extreme poverty. That's under a dollar and twenty-five cents a day. This is a global security crisis. The lack of food security contributes to political instability - food was a primary reason people first took to the streets in Tunisia. Food and poverty were right at the top of the list in the squares of Egypt, right next to the call for political freedom. In 2007 to 2008, the last global food crisis, there were major food riots in nearly 40 countries. In May 2008, my fellow Co-Chair of the House Hunger Caucus Congresswoman Emerson and I were briefed by the GAO about the lack of coordination and continuity in U.S. food and development programs. We started calling for a comprehensive approach to address global hunger and food insecurity. Under the leadership of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and USAID Administrator Raj Shah, the U.S. government responded to that call - and over a two-year period of time initiated a comprehensive, government-wide approach to reduce global hunger and increase nutrition and food security. Not because it feels good. Not even because it's the right and moral thing to do. But because it's in our national security and economic interests to make countries food secure, more productive, healthier and more stable. This strategy is known as the Global Hunger and Food Security Initiative. It includes our bilateral programs and efforts with other governments and multilateral institutions. To be successful, everyone has to pitch in. Feed the Future is the signature program of the U.S. strategy. It works with small farmers and governments to increase agricultural production and strengthen local and regional markets in order to reduce hunger and grow economies. Other key elements include the McGovern-Dole Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program that brings kids to school and keeps them there by making sure they get at least one nutritious meal each day at school. This program has proven to be especially effective at convincing families to send their daughters to school. And finally, there is our Food for Peace Program, which provides food to millions of women, children and men caught in life-threatening situations brought on by natural disasters, war and internal conflict. This program provides U.S.-grown commodities and locally purchased foods that literally keep people trying to survive the world's most dangerous situations alive. M. Speaker, I have never heard anyone say that they would like to see more hunger in the world - that they would like to see children too weak from hunger to be able to learn, or young girls forced to work long hours because they are no longer being fed at school. But that's what the budget cuts that passed the House one week ago would do. The House cut $800 million out of the food aid budget and over 40 percent from Development Assistance, which is where Feed the Future is funded. If these short-sighted and callous cuts are allowed to stand, we would literally be taking the food out of the mouths of over 2 million children. We would be depriving over 18 million people the food that keeps them alive - in Haiti, Darfur, Afghanistan, Guatemala, Ethiopia, Kenya and elsewhere. We would be turning our backs on countries where we made commitments to help boost the production of their own small farmers so that they could finally free themselves of having to depend on U.S. and international food aid to feed their own people. Enough, M. Speaker! Enough! This isn't a question of charity. It's an issue of national security - of what happens when desperate people can't find or afford food, and the anger that comes from people who see no future for their children except poverty and death. I ask President Obama to stand up for his programs and fight for them. I ask the White House to hold a Summit on hunger, nutrition and food security - both here in the U.S. and globally. I ask the media to wake up and grasp the consequences of these short-sighted cuts. I call upon my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to fund these programs so that they can be successful. It really is a matter of life and death.
02.23.2011	
02.23.2011	Statement from Congressmen McGovern, Ellison, Honda, McDermott on the violence in Libya. share: f t U.S. Congressmen Jim McDermott (D-WA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Keith Ellison (D-MN) issued the following statement today regarding the situation in Libya: "The violence in Libya is unconscionable and the international community must unite in opposition to this brute use of force against non-violent protesters. Yesterday's speech by embattled Moammar Gadhafi reinforces the fact that he is willing to cling to power through whatever means necessary. Calling himself a 'martyr' and deploying machine guns and snipers against civilian protesters are the clearest signs yet of Gadhafi's unwillingness to accept the Libyan people's demands and their exercise of basic rights. We agree with Libya's deputy UN ambassador's call for an internationally enforced no-fly zone to be established over the country to prevent Gadhafi from using his air force against protesters. We strongly condemn the unlawful killing of hundreds of civilians in Tripoli and the use of mercenaries to intimidate and control the population, and we call on the Libyan military to stop immediately its unlawful and immoral crackdown against the people of Libya."
02.18.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Walter Jones(R-NC) copenned an OpEd in this morning's Washington Post, calling for an end to the ongoing war in Afghanistan. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Walter Jones(R-NC) copenned an OpEd in this morning's Washington Post, calling for an end to the ongoing war in Afghanistan. The two Representatives called " the human and financial costs of the war" "unacceptable and unsustainable," and wrote that citizens "should be calling, writing or otherwise speaking out" about the "enormous sacrifice our country has made in blood and treasure." Read: The solution in Afghanistan: Get out
02.17.2011	New Caucus to Focus on Computer and Video Game Industry Benefits and Issues share: f t U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern Joins Congressional Caucus for Competitiveness in Entertainment Technology New Caucus to Focus on Computer and Video Game Industry Benefits and Issues FEBRUARY 16, 2010 - U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-3) today joined Co-Chairs Reps. Kevin Brady (R-TX) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), in launching the Congressional Caucus for Competitiveness in Entertainment Technology. As one of the new caucus' founding members Rep. McGovern will work to educate his colleagues and the public at large about the many ways the U.S. entertainment technology industry is improving our nation's economy and the lives of our citizens. -I look forward to working with Co-Chairs Brady and Wasserman Schultz to engage our colleagues and make them aware of the expanding role of entertainment technology in our economy and society,- said Rep. McGovern. -The computer and video game industry has more than quadrupled in size since the mid-1990s and generated highly skilled jobs across the nation. In fact, right now this is a $2 billion industry in Massachusetts. My hometown of Worcester, Massachusetts boasts two of the top ten video game design programs in the country as ranked by the Princeton Review -- Becker College and Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI). MIT in Massachusetts is also ranked in the top ten.- -The talent and innovation these colleges are producing have helped establish an exploding industry computer and video game industry cluster in Massachusetts where we are proud to have such leaders in the field as Take Two, Turbine, Tencent and GSN.- The interactive entertainment industry represents a unique sector of the U.S. economy that merges creative entertainment content with some of the most sophisticated computer and information technology on the market today. In the United States, computer and video game publishers currently operate in 34 states, and directly or indirectly employ over 120,000 people, contributing $5 billion to the economy. In Massachusetts, the computer and video game industry employs more than 1,200 people. -Digital technology is already in the driver's seat when it comes to job creation; Congressman McGovern and the Patrick/Murray administration get that,- said Robert E. Johnson, Ph.D., president of Becker College in Worcester, Mass. -Massachusetts is uniquely positioned—with a critical mass of talent and innovative partnerships—for growth in this industry.- -This emerging technology should be looked at as vital driver of Massachusetts' future innovation economy, and we should do our best to invest in those companies driving us forward,- said Massachusetts State Representative Vincent Pedone. With the computer and video game industry poised for continued growth, interest in entertainment software as a career path is also growing. Schools such as Becker, WPI, and MIT are providing the training needed to meet this growing demand and keep Massachusetts competitive in today's global economy. Technical innovations in the entertainment technology industry also have applications far beyond entertainment uses, including improving the health and wellness of all Americans and advancing educational programs for kids and adults. The Congressional Caucus for Competitiveness in Entertainment Technology's mission is to educate the public and policymakers about the economic, educational, and social benefits of sustaining a robust entertainment software industry. It is the members' vision that the Caucus will serve as a forum to discuss and formulate innovative approaches to utilize the industry's benefits and leverage its innovation, creativity, and reach to address a range of policy challenges.
02.16.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern met with Bristol Community College VP Joan Menard and Trustee Debi Kenney to discuss the proposed cuts to the Pell Grant program, and the drastic impact those cuts would have on students---and on preparing them for the future economy. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern met with Bristol Community College VP Joan Menard and Trustee Debi Kenney on Thursday to discuss the proposed cuts to the Pell Grant program, and the drastic impact those cuts would have on students---and on preparing them for the future economy. "I find the cuts in education funding to be particularly troublesome," said McGovern. "As President Obama made clear in the State of the Union, we must invest in our children if we are to compete in the 21st century economy. In order to maintain our economic standing, in order to create the jobs of the future, we must have a well-educated workforce." "So why on earth should we slash Pell Grants, which help millions of families - nearly 12,000 in my district alone - pay for college? We shouldn't."
02.16.2011	U.S. Rep Jim McGovern signed onto a letter to Speaker John Boehner and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging that funding to Public Broadcasting be protected. share: f t Last week, Congressman Jim McGovern joined dozens of his colleagues in signing onto a letter urging protection of Corporation for Public Broadcasting funding. The full text of the letter is below. Dear Speaker Boehner and Leader Pelosi: Every month, more than 170 million Americans have their lives enriched by tuning in or logging online to public radio and television stations. These local stations serve small towns and major cities across America. In rural areas, they can be the only source of free and high-quality local, national and international news, children's shows, and music and cultural programming. Across the country, public broadcasting directly supports 21,000 jobs, and almost all of them are in local public television and radio stations in hundreds of communities across America. As Congress searches for ways to strengthen our fiscal condition, we must do so in a responsible way that does not disproportionately impact our rural areas. We urge you to maintain a healthy level of funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) and public broadcasting at large. Federal funding gives our communities a voice by covering local news and events in ways that weekly newspapers cannot and commercial radio stations do not. This is especially true in rural areas where funds appropriated by Congress can account for more than half of a station's budget and are increasingly the point source for local programming and emergency preparedness alerts. In order to link remote communities and cover local news and events, rural stations require costly equipment and infrastructure. This means the federal investment is particularly important to smaller stations in the PBS system. While the appropriation equals about 15% of the system's revenue, that is an aggregate number. For many stations, the appropriation counts for as much as 40-50% of their budgets. Local stations leverage each federal dollar to raise over six more through contributions from millions of people who voluntarily support pledge drives and with private grants. CPBs seed money is the third leg of the stool. Without continued federal funding, the stool does not stand, and many stations would be severely limited while others would disappear. Eighty-nine percent of funds appropriated to CPB go directly to the more than 1,300 independently owned and operated public television and radio stations across the country, providing them with the revenues they need to produce local content and provide programming that serves their individual communities. Despite a growing number of media sources, Americans continue to turn to public broadcasting since they provide distinctive programming valued by listeners and viewers. A 2009 survey indicated that the total audience for public radio has grown by more than 150 percent over the course of the last 20 years (1989-2009). Digital platforms have significantly increased the reach of public media. For example, pbs.org receives 20 million unique visitors each month. Now more than ever Americans depend on public broadcasting for non-commercial educational programming and online content for their kids, local news, important community information, as well as music and arts. That means that while TV channels, internet and satellite radio proliferate faster than at any time before, the use of public broadcasting has also increased, not decreased. Public television is America's largest classroom, offering a cost-effective educational service used in homes and classrooms across the country. A large and growing body of research confirms that public media content helps children learn and close the achievement gap among children of different economic circumstances. There is no doubt that other media options are available to families, but public broadcasting is the only source free from commercial volatility and influence, with a singular interest in educating our kids. We can all agree that we should right-size government spending, but we must do it in a way that doesn't deprive citizens across the country of a fundamental way to be educated, informed and inspired. We cannot turn our backs on one of America's most successful public-private partnerships, an indispensable service that delivers exceptional value to citizens in small towns and major cities. It is an appropriate role for our government and one that we hope you will support. Sincerely, Representatives Baldwin, Bass, Berkley, Berman, Blumenauer, Robert Brady, Braley, Capps, Capuano, Carnahan, Carson, Castor, Chandler, Cicilline, Yvette Clarke, Cohen, Cooper, Susan Davis, DeFazio, DeGette, Deutch, Dingell, Doggett, Doyle, Edwards, Ellison, Engel, Eshoo, Farr, Fattah, Filner, Garamendi, Gonzalez, Gene Green, Grijalva, Gutierrez, Hastings, Hinchey, Hirono, Honda, Jackson, Kildee, Kucinich, Langevin, Larsen, Barbara Lee, Lewis, Loebsack, Lofgren, Lowey, Lynch, Markey, Maloney, Matsui, McCollum, McDermott, McGovern, McNerney, Meeks, George Miller, Moore, Chris Murphy, Nadler, Neal, Norton, Olver, Owens, Payne, Peters, Pingree, Polis, David Price, Rothman, Loretta Sanchez, Sarbanes, Sewell, Schakowsky, Bobby Scott, Slaughter, Speier, Sutton, Bennie Thompson, Mike Thompson, Tierney, Tonko, Towns, Tsongas, Velázquez, Van Hollen, Walz, Waters, Watt, Waxman, Welch, Frederica Wilson, Woolsey, Wu and Yarmuth
02.16.2011	Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Edward Markey, Barney Frank, Richard E. Neal, John Olver, John Tierney, Jim McGovern, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and William Keating, asked that heating assistance funding for families and seniors be maintained in the federal budget. share: f t Congressman Jim McGovern joined Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, along with Representatives Edward Markey, Barney Frank, Richard E. Neal, John Olver, John Tierney, Michael Capuano, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and William Keating, asked that heating assistance funding for families and seniors be maintained in the federal budget. In a letter to Senate and House Leadership, the Massachusetts delegation voiced their support for funding levels to be maintained for the Low Income Home Energy Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) for the FY2012 budget. -We all appreciate that difficult decisions have to be made this budget cycle to restore fiscal sanity and begin to tackle the debt,- the members wrote. -However, this year Massachusetts, and many other parts of the country, have seen record breaking low temperatures and brutal storm conditions. LIHEAP ensures that families can heat their homes, that senior citizens aren't forced to choose between their next meal and staying warm, and helps those who live in the North East to cope with the winter despite record high home heating oil costs.- The full text of the letter is below: February 14, 2011 The Honorable Harry Reid The Honorable Mitch McConnell Majority Leader Minority Leader United States Senate United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable John Boehner The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker Minority Leader House of Representatives House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20510 Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Majority Leader Reid, Minority Leader McConnell, Speaker Boehner and Minority Leader Pelosi, We are writing today in support of the Low Income Home Energy Heating Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and to express our hope that level funding can be maintained. The budget proposal submitted by the administration today cuts the program to $2.57 billion which would be devastating for our constituents in Massachusetts. We respectfully request that as you prepare the budget for Fiscal Year 2012 you maintain LIHEAP at its current level of $5.1 billion. We all appreciate that difficult decisions have to be made this budget cycle to restore fiscal sanity and begin to tackle the debt. However, this year Massachusetts, and many other parts of the country, have seen record breaking low temperatures and brutal storm conditions. LIHEAP ensures that families can heat their homes, that senior citizens aren't forced to choose between their next meal and staying warm, and helps those who live in the North East to cope with the winter despite record high home heating oil costs. By cutting LIHEAP at this critical time it is estimated that over 3 million American families that qualify for heating assistance would not receive it. As it is LIHEAP is already underfunded. We hear stories every winter from our constituents about the lack of assistance available and the difficulty they have heating their homes. We understand that increasing the LIHEAP program might not be possible this year because of the budget constraints but cutting the program in half would simply be devastating. We hope to work with you to find a way to keep LIHEAP at level funding and to provide our country's families with the assistance they need. We again request that you maintain level funding at $5.1 billion for the LIHEAP program and provide vital heating assistance to those in Massachusetts and across the county. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, John F. Kerry Scott P. Brown United States Senator United States Senator Edward J. Markey Barney Frank Member of Congress Member of Congress Richard E. Neal John W. Olver Member of Congress Member of Congress John F. Tierney James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress Michael Capuano Stephen F. Lynch Member of Congress Member of Congress Niki Tsongas William R. Keating Member of Congress Member of Congress
02.09.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today met with U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood in the Congressman's Washington, DC office. Rep. McGovern and Secretary LaHood discussed a wide range of transportation issues of importance to the 3rd District, including the upcoming reauthorization of the highway bill. -Secretary LaHood and I had a great meeting,- Rep. McGovern said. -I appreciate the opportunity to discuss with him the many transportation challenges - and opportunities - we have in Massachusetts.-
02.02.2011	Today, Congressmen Jim McGovern(D-Massachusetts) and Frank Wolf(R-Virginia), co-chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, issued a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to "emphasize both privately and in public statements that all parties involved should refrain from violence and that any transition should be peaceful and democratic and ensure that human rights and religious freedom are protected." The full text of the letter is below. share: f t Today, Congressmen Jim McGovern(D-Massachusetts) and Frank Wolf(R-Virginia), co-chairs of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, issued a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to "emphasize both privately and in public statements that all parties involved should refrain from violence and that any transition should be peaceful and democratic and ensure that human rights and religious freedom are protected." The full text of the letter is below. --- One Hundred and Twelfth Congress Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission February 1, 2011 The Honorable Barack Obama The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write today to express our concern about attacks in recent days perpetrated by Egyptian authorities against peaceful demonstrators across the country. As the administration continues to engage the government of Egypt, in the midst of ongoing protests, we urge you to emphasize both privately and in public statements that all parties involved should refrain from violence and that any transition should be peaceful and democratic and ensure that human rights and religious freedom are protected. It is imperative that the rapidly evolving situation not be exploited by extremist elements whose ultimate aims would be antithetical to these hallmarks of a free society. For years, the Egyptian people have been thwarted from expressing their legitimate grievances through democratic means. These abuses of government power are well known. Our own State Department's annual human rights report found that in Egypt, -The government's respect for human rights remained poor, and serious abuses continued in many areas. The government limited citizens' right to change their government and continued a state of emergency that has been in place almost continuously since 1967.- Since last week, hundreds of thousands of individuals have joined in demonstrations against the lack of political freedom, poverty, police abuse and corruption that have marked President Hosni Mubarak's regime. Today, the United nations High Commissioner for Human Rights stated that unconfirmed reports suggest that -as many as 300 people may have been killed so far, more than 3,000 injured, and hundreds arrested.- Prominent opposition leaders and human rights activists have been targeted by security forces during the demonstrations. The situation is especially precarious given the lack of communication and information within the country since the regime moved to cut Internet and mobile phone services last Thursday. AP reported Monday that -The last of Egypt's main Internet service providers, the Noor Group, has gone dark.- Furthermore, according to the non-governmental organization (NGO) Reporters Without Borders, authorities have arrested journalists in order to prevent information and press accounts of the events unfolding on the ground from leaving the country. While these abuses are particularly acute in the face of growing unrest, in many respects they are utterly consistent with the repression endured by the Egyptian people for decades and underscore the importance of the United States being a voice for the voiceless around the world at all times. Tellingly, Voice of America reported that -The Chinese government is blocking access to searches for the word ‘Egypt' on social networking Internet sites in China.- Authoritarian governments the world over fear their own people. Even as we engage with foreign governments, we must support the democratic aspirations of their people-not simply elections, but a robust civil society marked by freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion, among others. As the administration continues to engage with the Egyptian government we also ask you to emphasize the potentially precarious situation facing religious minorities, including the Coptic Christians and the Baha'is, during this period of transition. They are important moderating influences and critical to the future of a democratic and pluralistic Egypt. They have long suffered governmental and societal discrimination and hostility in Egypt, but they could be particularly vulnerable in these uncertain times. Evidence has already emerged that these communities are suffering, as police and security forces focus on the protection of the regime. Thank you for your attention to this critical matter and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Frank R. Wolf James P. McGovern Member of Congress Member of Congress
01.31.2011	UPDATED: Feb 7 Up-to-date information for American citizens in Egypt. share: f t This page will be updated as our office receives information from the State Department. For the most up-to-date information, please visit travel.state.gov. ---- UPDATE: FEBRUARY 7th at 11:00 AM Travel Warning U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Consular Affairs Egypt February 6, 2011 This replaces the Travel Warning for Egypt dated February 1, 2011. The U.S. Department of State continues to recommend that U.S. citizens avoid travel to Egypt at this time. On February 1, the Department of State ordered the departure of all non-emergency U.S. government personnel and family members from Egypt. U.S. citizens should consider leaving Egypt as soon as they can safely do so, due to ongoing political and social unrest. Large-scale demonstrations with the potential for violence continue in several areas of the country, and there are periodic overland travel disruptions. The Government of Egypt has modified the curfew several times; hours are now 7:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. throughout Egypt until further notice. U.S. citizens should obey curfew orders and remain indoors during curfew hours. U.S. citizens who wish to depart Egypt should proceed to the airport and secure commercial passage out of the country. Cairo airport is open and operating, and commercial airlines are reporting flight availability from Cairo. Commercial flights are also operating from Luxor, Alexandria, and Aswan airports. Given the current availability of commercial flights, no additional U.S. government-chartered flights are planned. Travelers with the means to do so should make every effort to utilize commercial flights. Some commercial airlines also offer pet transport. Travelers should remain in contact with their airlines or tour operators concerning flight schedules, and arrange to arrive at the airport well before curfew hours. Do not wait for a reply from the embassy or the Department of State before traveling to the nearest airport; further delay is not advised. Male dual Egyptian - U.S. nationals who have not completed military service and have stayed in Egypt for more than six months are required to obtain an exemption certificate through the Ministry of Defense Draft Office before they can leave Egypt. The Ministry of Defense Draft Office reports they are open daily to provide exemption certificates. The U.S. Department of State strongly urges U.S. citizens to avoid all demonstrations in Egypt, as even peaceful ones can quickly become violent and a foreigner could become a target of harassment or worse. U.S. citizens who are near demonstrations should remain in their residences or hotels until the demonstrations subside. Security forces may block off the area around the U.S. Embassy during demonstrations, and U.S. citizens should not attempt to come to the U.S. Embassy or the Tahrir Square area during that time. U.S. citizens are urged to remain alert to local security developments and to be vigilant regarding their personal security. U.S. citizens should carry identification and a cell phone that works in Egypt. The U.S. Embassy will be open only for emergency services to U.S. citizens until further notice. Visit the embassy website at http://egypt.usembassy.gov to check the latest changes to embassy hours or services. Family members of U.S. citizens in Egypt may also enroll them in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) at https://travelregistration.state.gov. U.S. citizens in Egypt, or their loved ones, may contact the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Embassy in Cairo via email to EmergencyEgyptUSC@state.gov, or at 1-202-501-4444. Please follow the directions on the embassy website for all other consular inquiries. For the latest security information, U.S. citizens traveling abroad should regularly monitor the Department of State's Internet website at www.travel.state.gov where the Worldwide Caution, Egypt Country Specific Information, Travel Warnings, and Travel Alerts can be found. Up to date information on security can also be obtained by calling 1- 888-407-4747 toll free in the United States and Canada, or, for callers outside the United States and Canada, a regular toll line at 1-202-501-4444. These numbers are available from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time, Monday through Friday (except U.S. federal holidays). The Embassy is located at 5 Tawfik Diab Street (formerly known as Latin America Street), Garden City, Cairo. For emergencies after business hours and on weekends and holidays, U.S. citizens can contact the Embassy Duty Officer via the Embassy switchboard on 2797-3300. Information: February 6, 2011 Flight Update Information February 6, 2011 US Embassy Cairo Given the current availability of commercial flights, no additional U.S. government-chartered flights are planned. Travelers with the means to do so should make every effort to utilize commercial flights. Commercial airlines are reporting flight availability from Cairo. Please contact your airline directly to confirm your flight status; airline schedules change may change frequently based on demand and the local security situation. The U.S. Embassy is open on Sunday, February 6, from 9:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. for U.S. citizens who need consular assistance. U.S. citizens who wish to depart Egypt for return to the United States, but are having difficulty accessing funds, should contact the U.S. Embassy for assistance. Immediate family members (spouses and children) who are not U.S. citizens must be documented for their destination country. All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children, are required to have valid travel documents. U.S. citizens in Egypt who are near demonstrations should remain in their residences or hotels until the demonstrations subside. Security forces may block off the area around the U.S. Embassy during demonstrations, and U.S. citizens should not attempt to come to the U.S. Embassy or the Tahrir Square area during that time. Demonstrations have degenerated on several occasions into violent clashes between police and protesters, resulting in injuries and extensive property damage. While demonstrations have not been directed toward Westerners, U.S. citizens are urged to remain alert to local security developments and to be vigilant regarding their personal security. The U.S. Department of State strongly urges U.S. citizens to avoid all demonstrations, as even peaceful ones can quickly become unruly and a foreigner could become a target of harassment or worse. If caught unexpectedly near a demonstration, U.S. citizens should obey instructions from police and leave the area as quickly as possible. U.S. citizens resident in Egypt should monitor local news broadcasts and U.S. citizen visitors should ask tour guides and hotel officials about any planned demonstrations in the locations they plan to visit. U.S. citizens should carry identification and a cell phone that works in Egypt. The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens in Egypt is one of the State Department's top priorities. Approximately 2,300 U.S. citizens and their family members have been evacuated from Egypt since January 31. Frequently Asked Questions Has the curfew changed? What is the current curfew? The Egyptian Government reported that the curfew is in effect throughout Egypt from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m., as of February 5. I'm ready to go. What do I do? If you wish to depart Egypt you should proceed to your local airport and secure commercial passage out of the country. Do not wait for a call from the U.S. Embassy. Further delay is not advised. Are there plans for any charter flights? No. We highly recommend that U.S. citizens seeking to depart Egypt do so now by commercial airline. Do I need to prove I completed military service to board a plane? Male dual nationals who have not completed military service and have stayed in Egypt for more than six months are required to obtain an exemption certificate through the Ministry of Defense Draft Office before they can leave Egypt. However, they must obtain an exemption certificate through the Ministry of Defense Draft Office before they can leave Egypt, which reports they are open daily to provide exemption certificates. I wish to travel by commercial air carrier - how do I book a flight? While some flights are still disrupted, major airlines are operating out of Egyptian airports. Please contact your airline or travel agent to book a ticket prior to heading to the airport. If you already have an existing ticket or reservation, please contact your airline to confirm your flight status. Do I need a U.S. passport? All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children are required to have valid travel documents. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo will assist U.S. citizens with travel documents. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport and are interested in departing Egypt should contact the U.S. Department of State and Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov. What do I do if my child is a U.S. citizen, but hasn't yet been documented? Contact the U.S. Embassy in Cairo. U.S. citizens who do not hold a valid U.S. passport interested in departing Egypt should contact the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Embassy Cairo by sending an email to EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov. The Embassy will be open for emergency consular services for U.S. citizens on Sunday, February 6 from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. Note: Non-U.S. citizens who accompanyied evacuated U.S. citizens to safe haven locations in Europe have been able to apply for an airport entrance visa on arrival to the safe haven location. Non-U.S. citizens planning onward travel not already holding visas or Legal Permanent Residency Status for entry into the United States will need to visit the U.S. Embassy in the safe haven location to apply for a visa prior to scheduling onward travel. If you have a question related to immigrant or non-immigrant visa processing in Cairo, please send a detailed inquiry to CairoVisaInquiries@state.gov. How do I get a visa (to safe haven country or the United States)? Non-U.S. citizens who accompanied evacuated U.S. citizens to safe haven locations have been able to apply for an airport entrance visa on arrival to safe haven locations in Europe. Non-U.S. citizens planning onward travel not already holding visas or Legal Permanent Residency Status for entry into the United States will need to visit the U.S. Embassy in the safe haven location to apply for a visa prior to scheduling onward travel. If you have a question related to immigrant or non-immigrant visa processing in Cairo, please send a detailed inquiry to CairoVisaInquiries@state.gov. What about my pets? Some commercial airlines do offer pet transport. Please check with the airlines directly. How do I get to the airport? At this time, public transport (to include taxis) is still operating in Egypt. Important Information about Consular Services: February 6, 2011 The U. S. Embassy is open for emergency services for U.S. citizens only until further notice. Visa applicants with previously scheduled appointments will be contacted and provided guidance concerning their appointments. All processed nonimmigrant and immigrant visas will be returned via DHL courier service selected at the time of interview. Please visit DHL at http://www.dhlegypt.com/en.html to track the status of delivery. The U.S. Embassy is open for emergency services for American citizens on Monday February 7 from 0900 to 1200. Please visit www.travel.state.gov for our latest travel warning for Egypt. Please check our website http://egypt.usembassy.gov/ frequently for additional updates.
01.31.2011	U.S. Congressmen Jim McDermott (D-WA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Jim McGovern (D-MA) issued the following statement today regarding the situation in Egypt: -We are deeply concerned with the Egyptian government's use of security forces and violence against demonstrators throughout Egypt. Egyptians are on the streets to address legitimate grievances. Such heavy-handed response by the Egyptian Government will only exacerbate the frustration of these protestors, many of whom are young people that are fed up with the lack of political freedoms, as well as poverty and the lack of other opportunities. We call on the Government of Egypt to stop using violence against its own people; allow the free flow of information over the Internet, phone networks and in the media; immediately release Mohamed ElBaradei and all others wrongly detained; repeal the Emergency Law; and, allow reforms toward a more democratic election process. -We fully support the Obama Administration's resolve to stand with the people of Egypt, and we encourage the Obama Administration to escalate its call for political and economic reforms in Egypt. The U.S. Congress will carefully observe the situation in Egypt in the upcoming days, particularly in order to ensure that no U.S. assistance or equipment is used in the violent suppression of peaceful protests; and, in the weeks and months ahead, Congress will be evaluating U.S. assistance to Egypt in light of developments on the ground.-
01.27.2011	Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern, Barney Frank, and Mike Capuano, today announced that Massachusetts has received $3,392,629 to create health information exchanges that allow doctors to share information as patients move across health care settings. share: f t Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern, Barney Frank, and Mike Capuano, today announced that Massachusetts has received $3,392,629 to create health information exchanges that allow doctors to share information as patients move across health care settings. In December, 2010, Kerry, McGovern, Frank, and Capuano wrote to a letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) advocating for the increased funding that will protect patients' information as they travel between care facilities in the state. -Massachusetts led the nation on health reform, and this investment will help us lead again in modernizing medical records,- said. Sen. Kerry. -Better technology and more efficient record keeping mean better care and fewer medical errors.- -I'm very pleased that MTPC is receiving this stimulus funding,- said Rep. McGovern. -Better health care technology will result in better patient outcomes and lower costs.- -This is another example of stimulus funds being put to good use,- said Rep. Frank. -The electronic health records technology will lead to better health care. The investment will mean more local jobs.- -This stimulus funding will help improve the efficiency and security of medical records sharing and I am pleased that it is being awarded in Massachusetts,- said Rep. Capuano. The funding, awarded by HHS' Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT, will go to the Massachusetts Technology Park Corporation in Westborough and will encourage breakthrough innovations for health information exchange and interoperability throughout the state. Today's $3.4 million grant is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
01.26.2011	
01.24.2011	Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-03) announced two personnel moves for his congressional staff in the Worcester District Office today. Kathleen Polanowicz, who previously served as District Representative for McGovern, has been named District Director. Ms. Polanowicz will oversee all operations and staff in McGovern's four District offices. In addition, she will continue to provide constituent services in the areas of municipal relations, federal grant support, and select casework. Ms. Polanowicz is the former Chair of the Board of Selectmen in Northborough, MA and currently serves as the Chair of the Northborough Housing Authority. She is a founding member of the Northborough Housing Corporation and serves on the Northborough Community Preservation Committee. Ms. Polanowicz graduated from Marymount College with a BA and Santa Clara University School of Law with a JD. Prior to joining Congressman McGovern, she was a practicing attorney, most recently as a trial attorney with the Naughton Law Office in Clinton, MA. Ms. Polanowicz grew up in Worcester, and currently resides in Northborough with her husband John and their two children. Scott Zoback of Worcester has been named the new District Press Secretary and New Media Director. A graduate of Clark University, with a Bachelors of Arts in History and a Masters in Public Administration, Zoback previously served as the Director of New Media for McGovern's 2010 reelection campaign, and as the Communications Director for Massachusetts State Senator Harriette Chandler. Zoback will coordinate local media outreach, as well as enhance McGovern's online presence. -As a Congressman, it is vital for me to have a District staff committed to providing the highest quality constituent services possible. Kathleen and Scott understand and appreciate the needs of the District and will do their utmost to provide service of the highest caliber to our constituents. I am proud to represent the people of Massachusetts'3rd Congressional District both here and in Washington and I couldn't be happier to have Kathleen and Scott playing key roles on my team.-
01.20.2011	I thank the gentleman for yielding me the customary 30 minutes and I yield myself 4 minutes. M. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this resolution. Once again I am deeply disappointed that instead of working to create jobs and strengthen the economy, the new Republican Majority continues to focus on re-opening old wounds and fighting old battles. The resolution before us today is, allegedly, the -replace- component of the Republicans' -Repeal and Replace- strategy. I say -allegedly,- M. Speaker, because this resolution is not a serious legislative effort. It's a series of talking points. It's a press release. What this resolution does is ask the committees of jurisdiction to hopefully, maybe someday, if they would be so kind, to report legislation to the House that meets certain vague goals. Instead of -Repeal and Replace,- this is -Repeal and Relax - trust us to do the right thing.- No thank you, M. Speaker. Yesterday, this House voted - without a single hearing or mark-up, without a single amendment - to eliminate the Affordable Care Act in its entirety. The Members who voted for that bill voted to return to the days when insurance companies could discriminate against people based on pre-existing conditions. They voted to eliminate the ban on annual and lifetime limits on care. They voted to eliminate the ability for young people to stay on their parents' insurance plans up to age 26. They voted to re-open the Donut Hole in Medicare - basically, they voted for a tax increase on senior citizens who need prescription drugs. The voted to eliminate tax credits for small businesses who want to do the right thing and provide health insurance for their workers. All of that, M. Speaker, would have the force of law. All of that was done with real legislative language. But not the resolution before us today. Instead of real language that would provide real benefits to real Americans, this resolution is simply a collection of empty promises. And the ironic thing is that most of the provisions included in the resolution were actually addressed in the Affordable Care Act. According to this resolution, we should -lower health care premiums through increased competition and choice.- The Affordable Care Act already does that. Of course, many of us argued for a Public Option, which would have lowered premiums even further with increased competition and choice, but my Republican friends didn't want to have anything to do with that. This resolution says we should -preserve a patient's ability to keep his or her health plan if he or she likes it.- The Affordable Care Act already does that. Increase the number of insured Americans? We did that by 30 million. Protect the doctor-patient relationship? We did that. And so on. On the critical issue of people with pre-existing conditions, however, it's interesting to see the language that my Republican friends use in this resolution. They say they support, QUOTE, -provide people with pre-existing conditions access to affordable health coverage.- That sounds nice. But what we did in the Affordable Care Act was to actually BAN insurance companies from discriminating against those people. I'll be very interested to see how my Republican friends handle that critical issue, and how much influence the big insurance lobby has around here now. And the Donut Hole? This resolution is absolutely silent on that. M. Speaker, health care is of vital importance to every single American. It's a big deal. And to treat health insurance reform as just another opportunity for happy talk and wishful thinking is not the way to do business in the People's House. I urge my colleagues to reject this resolution, and I reserve the balance of my time.
01.19.2011	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today announced that he will serve as a member on the House Agriculture Committee in the 112thCongress. He has also been appointed by Minority Whip Steny Hoyer as a Senior Whip. -I'm very excited to be taking on these new responsibilities,- Rep. McGovern said. -On the Agriculture Committee, I look forward to continuing my work on hunger, nutrition, food safety, and overhauling our agricultural subsidy policies. Historically, large commodity producers have had a seat at the table on the Committee. I will serve as a voice for the consumer and the family farmer. Everyone in the Third Congressional District - indeed, every single American - is a food consumer. They deserve vigorous representation in Congress.- Rep. McGovern is also co-chair of the House Hunger Caucus, with Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) serving as the other co-chair. Senior Whips are a group of senior Members and Caucus opinion leaders who meet once a week, when Congress is in session. During these meetings, the Senior Whips have a forward-looking, strategic discussion on some of the key issues facing Congress. Senior Whips will also be responsible for discussing upcoming legislation with members. -I'm honored that Minority Whip Hoyer has asked me to be part of his team,- Rep. McGovern said. -I am eager to work with my other colleagues on the important issues of the day - especially creating jobs and strengthening the economy.- Rep. McGovern will continue to serve as the second-ranking Democrat on the House Rules Committee.
01.13.2011	M. Speaker - I appreciate the opportunity to speak here today. Gabrielle Giffords is a smart, gifted and compassionate Member of Congress. It is a privilege to be her colleague, and Arizona is privileged to be represented by a person of her caliber. My wife, Lisa, and I pray for her recovery and our thoughts are with her family, friends and community as they come together in the aftermath of this terrible act of violence. I look forward to seeing Gabby back here where she belongs - on this floor, advocating on behalf of her constituents. I served in this House for many years as a Congressional aide. And since I've been elected to Congress, I've come to appreciate even more the generous and selfless service of our staffs. So I am especially touched and grieved by the murder of Gabe Zimmerman, who served as Gabby's director of community outreach. For those whose lives were lost - Christina-Taylor Green, Dorothy Morris, Judge John Roll, Phyllis Schneck, and Dorwin Stoddard, who was related to one of my own staff - my sympathy, condolences and prayers are with their families and loved ones. I believe so very strongly that we here in this House, and all of us as Americans, must come together and transform this tragedy into something positive and hopeful. We live in a country that is too polarized, and we live in a country where a culture of violence is all too common. If this horrible act of violence results in all of us becoming more civil to one another, in taking a more careful look at the words and imagery we use when talking to and about one another as we deal with difficult and controversial policy debates - if it results in concrete way to begin to reverse this culture of violence - then our nation will triumph over this pain and loss. Today is a time to grieve, to mourn, to express sympathy. But unfortunately, in the aftermath of the tragedy, too many of the old fights re-surfaced. The left blamed the right. The right blamed the left. Everybody blamed the media. Op-eds were written and bills were introduced. But M. Speaker, none of that will bring back those who were lost. None of that will put a 9-year old girl back at the breakfast table where she belongs. Like many of my colleagues, on Monday I participated in a national moment of silence. The best thing about that moment was that - for just a minute or two - the noise stopped. We paused, and we reflected. And I hope that we can do more of that in the months and years ahead. Thank you, M. Speaker.
12.22.2010	M. Speaker, as we near the end of 2010 and the 111th Congress, I want to take a few minutes to talk about an issue that is critically important to the health and well being of our country. It is also an issue that I care deeply about. That issue, M. Speaker, is hunger. I've said it over and over again, but it bears repeating -- hunger is a political condition. We know how to end hunger in America. We have the resources to do it. What we need is the political will to make it happen. We've made some important progress over the last few years. We enacted historic improvements in the food stamp program, now called SNAP. WIC, the program that ensures that pregnant mothers and their newborn and infant children have access to nutritious food, has been fully funded. Food banks received the assistance they needed to fill their shelves as they worked to put food in the hands of hungry families. We passed the Hunger Free Communities Act, a law that provides localized grants to combat hunger around the country. The Farm Bill included historic improvements to anti-hunger programs, most importantly indexing SNAP to inflation. The Recovery Act did even more, by increasing emergency funds to SNAP beneficiaries - allowing them to buy more food at a time when their incomes were falling because of the economy. Finally, on December 13th, President Obama signed the Healthy, Hunger Free Kids Act into law. This law will improve the quality of food served at schools to our nation's children. I have been honored to serve as the Co-Chair of the House Huger Caucus, and I want to thank my colleagues on that caucus - Democrat and Republican - for their commitment to this critical issue. I especially want to thank my friend and co-chair, Jo Ann Emerson, for her incredible work. But we have much more to do. The USDA recently released their annual food insecurity, or hunger, statistics. The simple and unfortunate fact is this: because of the economy, hunger is getting worse in America, not better. In 2009, the number of hungry Americans increased by 1 million over the previous year. According to the latest data, over 50 million Americans - including 17.2 million children - went hungry at some point in 2009. These are the highest numbers ever collected by USDA. And if that weren't bad enough, future SNAP funds - money provided under the Recovery Act - have been raided for other critical programs. M. Speaker, I love this institution and am honored to serve as Member of Congress. But it is a peculiar place. None of my colleagues - Democrat or Republican - will tell you they are pro-hunger. You'll never see a Member of Congress take a bottle out of the mouth of a hungry baby or swipe a can of beans that had been donated to a local food bank. But that's precisely what we will be doing if we choose to balance the budget on the backs of the poor and the hungry in this country. I want to tackle our deficit as badly as anyone else. And in order to dig ourselves out of this fiscal hole, then ALL of us will need to sacrifice - not just the poor and the middle class. It is simply unacceptable to provide billions in tax relief for millionaires and billionaires while at the same time cutting programs that literally put food in the mouths of hungry people. Ending hunger is not just the right thing to do - it's also in the best interest of our nation's future. It's a national security issue, it's an education issue, it's a jobs issue, it's a health care issue, it's a productivity issue, it's a fiscal health issue. We have a lot of work to do, M. Speaker. The President is committed to ending childhood hunger by 2015, but we're not doing enough to reach that goal. Budgets will be tight for the foreseeable future, and it's going to be difficult to fund these vital programs. But rest assured, M. Speaker, this issue is not going away. We must not ignore the needs of the hungry in America. We must continue to work with anti-hunger groups, nutrition groups, religious groups, the Administration and others to finally end hunger in America. We can do this. I urge my colleagues in the 112th Congress to join in this effort. I yield back the balance of my time.
12.16.2010	M. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule but in reluctant opposition to the underlying legislation. Let me begin by saying that I know there are a lot of good things in this bill. The bill extends tax relief for middle class families. It extends unemployment insurance for Americans who - through no fault of their own - find themselves out of work in this difficult economy. The bill also extends several important tax relief measures that were included in last year's recovery package, including the parity for transit benefits - which is a measure that I have worked on here in the House. I understand and appreciate the situation in which President Obama found himself. He was faced with a United States Senate that demands a super-majority of 60 votes to order pizza, let alone enact significant legislation. Over the past two years, our Republican colleagues in the Senate have blown by the previous record for filibusters. They have made it clear that their overriding political strategy is to say ‘no' to whatever President Obama proposes, no matter how worthy or popular. That's unfortunate, but that's the reality that we face. But I believe that the provisions in this bill that give away billions and billions of dollars to the wealthiest Americans are unnecessary, unproductive and irresponsible. Unnecessary because over the past few years, while millions of middle class families struggled to pay their mortgages and put food on the table, the wealthiest few in America have done very well. The fat cats on Wall Street are riding high once again, with multi-million dollar bonuses and golden parachutes. Unproductive because study after study have shown that one of the LEAST effective ways to stimulate the economy is to put more money into the pockets of the rich. The wealthiest few are more likely to save that money rather than invest it in the economy. CBO has found that of all the things we could do to stimulate the economy, tax breaks for rich people have the worst record of encouraging economic growth. And irresponsible because this bill will add billions and billions of dollars on to our nation's debt. We just came through a campaign in which everybody talked about the need for deficit reduction. The bipartisan Bowles-Simpson commission made it clear that we are on an unsustainable course. When they presented their report, everybody in this town nodded gravely and talked about how important their work was. Yet here we are, less than a month later, making the problem worse. So on balance, M. Speaker, I cannot support the underlying bill as it is written. I know that we will have an opportunity to improve the legislation by supporting an amendment to pare back some of the estate tax cuts for the wealthiest estates in America. I urge my colleagues to support that amendment. M. Speaker, we can do better than this. We must do better than this. Future generations are counting on us. I reserve the balance of my time.
12.10.2010	Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen John Olver, Edward Markey, Barney Frank, Jim McGovern, Stephen F. Lynch, Niki Tsongas, and Richard E. Neal, today announced that Massachusetts will receive $2,888,305 from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to fund high speed rail advancements in Western Massachusetts. -This is a huge win for Massachusetts and shows once again that our state is leading in high speed rail innovation,- said Sen. Kerry. -Massachusetts has shown that it can compete for the federal funds necessary to advance key transportation projects across the Commonwealth. In western Massachusetts, today's award of $2.8 million fully funds the original Knowledge Corridor application request. This important project is integral to the Northeast's vision for regional rail and economic growth. The rehabilitation of the Connecticut River rail line will provide a faster, more direct route for the Amtrak Vermonter service, restore rail access to the cities of Northampton and Greenfield, encourage regional economic growth and put people back to work,- said Rep. Olver. -Today's announcement of $2.8 million in high speed rail funds is a victory for Massachusetts commuters that will position our transportation system for the future and put people to work on a critically needed infrastructure project. Our delegation in Congress teamed to make the case for federal funding for the Knowledge Corridor project, and I look forward to the increase in convenience and ridership that it will produce in the future,- said Rep. Markey. -This is very good news for the people of Massachusetts. It is the result of a close cooperation between Governor Patrick and the Congressional delegation as well as responsiveness of the Obama administration,- said Rep. Frank. -A state-of-the-art high speed rail system would be an incredible boost to Massachusetts' economy. I want to thank Secretary LaHood for his consideration,- said Rep. McGovern. -High speed rail is one of the best long-term investments we can make in America. It makes perfect sense for job creation as well as for our environmental and commercial interests. This is an investment in our future,- said Rep. Lynch. -These federal funds will improve our transportation infrastructure while creating jobs in the Commonwealth. High speed rail in Massachusetts has the potential to the ease congestion on our roadways, open new areas for economic development, and reduce energy use, which is why I joined with members of our delegation in advocating for these funds,- said Rep. Tsongas. "Having been an outspoken and longtime supporter of high speed rail, both an east-west and north-south line, I am very pleased with today's development. It is another example of our delegation working together to make high speed rail in Massachusetts a reality," said Rep. Neal. The funding was awarded to Massachusetts' -Knowledge Corridor - Restore Vermonter- project, from unspent dollars originally designated for Wisconsin and Ohio. After the incoming Governors of those states both indicated that they will not move forward with high speed rail projects, Massachusetts' Congressional Democrats wrote a letter DOT Secretary Ray LaHood stating that -Massachusetts would be ready and able to spend those funds on [High Speed Rail] projects.-
12.02.2010	M. Speaker, we have the opportunity today to pass a very good bill that will improve the lives of our children. And I believe we must seize that opportunity. I want to thank Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Miller, Congresswoman DeLauro, Congresswoman McCarthy and others who have worked so hard on this issue. And I want to say a special ‘thank you' to First Lady Michelle Obama. She has been an incredible champion for our children, particularly in the areas of nutrition and obesity. She has challenged us to live up to one of our highest moral obligations - to make sure that the children of this nation have the nutritious food they need to grow, thrive and succeed. As I've said many times before, hunger is a political condition. We have the resources to end hunger - particularly childhood hunger - in this country. What we need is the political will to make it happen. President Obama has pledged to end childhood hunger in America by 2015. If we support that goal, then we must pass this bill. I hope that the members of this House - all of us, Democrat and Republican - can come together today to summon that political will. There isn't a single community in America that's hunger free. Talk to any food bank - they'll tell you that the demand has never been greater. And far too many of the people who need help are children. The Child Nutrition bill we will take up this week gives us a chance to provide healthy meals to hundreds of thousands of children who need them. It's also important to remember that hunger and obesity are two sides of the same coin. The fact is that highly-processed, empty-calorie foods are less expensive than fresh nutritious foods. That's why so many families are forced to make unhealthy choices. This bill increases the reimbursement to schools for meals by 6 cents a meal. 6 cents. And that's the first increase in 30 years! Too often, the only nutritious food our children get is in a school setting, so this bill also increases access to after-school programs. And the bill helps communities to establish farm-to-school networks, which are not just good for our children, but good for our local farmers. Now, it's no secret that I've had concerns with how this bill is paid for - and I remind my colleagues that it IS fully paid for. The cuts to the SNAP, or Food Stamp, program don't make a lot of sense to me. I don't believe we should be taking access to food away from some people in order to provide for others. But we have been assured - repeatedly - by the President and the White House that they will work with us to restore those cuts. And I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues to make sure the White House lives up to that commitment. Quite frankly, if I didn't believe that the commitment to restore SNAP cuts was real, I would have a hard time voting for the underlying legislation. This bill - this exact same piece of legislation -- passed UNANIMOUSLY in the Senate. Every single member of the Senate, including a who's who of the most conservative Republicans, voted to support reauthorizing our child nutrition programs. Unfortunately, from what I heard in the Rules Committee last night, that won't happen today in the House. My friends on the other side of the aisle have no problem expanding wasteful weapons systems. They have no problem expanding tax cuts for millionaires on Wall Street. But apparently, some of them have a problem with expanding access to nutritious food for our children. They say it's an outrageous example of big government or that a high school basketball team would be prohibited from having a bake sale. Nonsense. Utter nonsense. As the President of the National PTA has said, QUOTE, -The measure will effectively eliminate the constant presence of junk food in school while allowing reasonable practices like periodic PTA or other school group fundraisers, such as bake sales, and the sale of hot dogs and soda at afterschool sporting events.- END QUOTE. An extra few million for a hedge-fund manager who doesn't need it? No problem, my Republican friends say. But Heaven forbid we spend another 6 cents to make sure our kids have a more healthy school lunch. Those may be their priorities, M. Speaker, but they aren't mine. And they aren't the priorities of the people of my district. They will say that -No one wants our children to go hungry.- Fair enough. Here's their opportunity to put their vote where their rhetoric is. Here's their opportunity to demonstrate that their concern for the hungry in this country is more than just lip service. I understand the politics here. It's pretty simple. If the President is for it, my Republican friends are against it. But I would ask them - plead with them - to check those politics at the door just this once. Please don't sacrifice an opportunity to improve the lives of millions of our children on the altar of partisan politics. The need to act is clear. Our moral obligation is clear. Our children are getting sicker and sicker and sicker. If kids don't have enough nutritious food to eat, they don't learn. We are wasting millions and millions of dollars on health care for diseases like diabetes and heart disease that are preventable with a healthier diet. Today we can begin to turn that tide. Please join us in doing the right thing. I urge support for this rule and the underlying bill and I reserve the balance of my time. Update: The Child Nutrition Bill was passed on December 2, 2010.
12.01.2010	Congressman Jim McGovern joined a conference call today stressing the need to reauthorize our Child Nutrition programs. Below is a link to the audio of the conference call. http://edlabor.house.gov/documents/111/audio/20101129ChildNutritionConferenceCall.mp3
11.19.2010	Ten bipartisan members of the House, led by U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and U.S. Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) sent a letter to President Obama expressing their -grave concerns- about the course of U.S. policy in Afghanistan. The letter came on the eve of the President's trip to Lisbon for a NATO meeting. The text of the letter follows: Dear Mr. President, We write to you, Mr. President, because we have grave concerns that the current course in Afghanistan is compromising our national security interests and is unsustainable even in the short term. Currently, you are carrying out a review and assessment of U.S. strategy in Afghanistan, which is due to be released this Friday at the NATO meeting in Lisbon, according to media reports. We strongly support a comprehensive reassessment as we have serious concerns about this strategy. We urge you to avoid making this a review limited to assessing the military tactics within Afghanistan and instead address the fundamental question: Is the war in Afghanistan and the price our nation is paying for this war truly in the national security interest of the United States? On August 31, 2010, you reiterated to the nation your pledge to begin the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan in July 2011, indicating in your Oval Office address -this transition will begin - because open-ended war serves neither our interests nor the Afghan people's.- As you complete your review, we urge you not only to remain committed to your stated policy regarding this July 2011 transition, but to clearly define by when all U.S. forces will return home from Afghanistan. High levels of deployment continue to strain our uniformed men and women, their families and their communities. In spite of the military's best efforts, suicide and post-traumatic stress rates continue to soar, and our ability to care for the wounded is severely over-burdened. The ability of individual service members and their units to rest, recuperate, retrain and re-equip themselves for redeployment is stretched beyond its limits. According to a recent Congressional Research Service report, the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan alone account for 23 percent of the combined budget deficits between fiscal years 2003 and 2010. Nobel Laureate and Columbia University professor Joseph Stiglitz testified in September before the House Committee on Veterans Affairs and stated that the total cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, including interest payments on the money borrowed for these wars and care for our wounded soldiers and veterans, will likely be between $4 - $6 trillion. Mr. President, these costs are unsustainable and unacceptable. Spending on the war in Afghanistan represents a significant drag on our economy, slowing our recovery, undermining our ability to invest and create new jobs, and diverting resources that would be better used here at home. Our nation cannot be strong abroad if we allow ourselves to become weak at home. We are also concerned that our military operations in Afghanistan may be making our nation less safe. According to CIA Director Leon Panetta, there are fewer than 100 al-Qaeda operatives in Afghanistan. Yet our military presence in Afghanistan has enabled the Taliban leadership to increase their ranks as they appeal to their fellow Afghans to fight what they see as foreign invaders. The level of resources required for the U.S. to remain in Afghanistan handicaps our ability to respond effectively to the genuine challenges posed by al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. Just as in Iraq, the government and people of Afghanistan will more effectively and comprehensively take control of their own destiny once it is clearly defined how and when U.S. forces will depart from their country. The futures of both our countries require that you comprehensively review the costs and sustainability of current U.S. military operations in Afghanistan, their impact here at home as well as abroad, and inform the American people how and when U.S. forces will return home to their families and communities. Sincerely, James P. McGovern Walter Jones Barbara Lee Ron Paul Michael Honda John J. -Jimmy- Duncan, Jr. Lynn Woolsey Timothy Johnson John Conyers Dennis Kucinich
10.13.2010	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today called on the House Leadership to bring H.R. 5987, -The Seniors Protection Act of 2010,- to the floor for swift passage as soon as Congress reconvenes. Rep. McGovern is a co-sponsor of the bill, introduced by U.S. Rep. Earl Pomeroy (D-ND). According to recent news reports, on October 15 Social Security will likely announce (because of a long-standing statutory formula) that there will not be a cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) next year. H.R. 5987 would provide a one-time payment of $250 in the event that no COLA is payable in 2011. -Our seniors did not cause the financial crisis and the resulting recession - Wall Street greed and bad Republican policies did,- Rep. McGovern said. -And seniors should not be forced to go without a COLA. I urge the House Leadership to take up H.R. 5987 as soon as possible in order to give our seniors some peace of mind.- Social Security benefit levels are quite modest - only $14,000 a year for the average retiree. Yet, the median income for senior households is a mere $24,000, reflecting just how much Social Security means to most elderly Americans. Six in ten seniors rely on Social Security for more than half of their income. About a third of retirees have little other than Social Security to live on. Seniors' other sources of income have weakened as a result of the economic downturn: the financial collapse reduced the value of their IRAs; interest rates are low, reducing income from seniors' savings; and the housing crash reduced seniors' home equity. The one-time $250 payment for retirees and other beneficiaries would represent less than two percent of the average annual Social Security benefit. -Just because the technical formula shows that a COLA is not warranted, that doesn't mean that too many of our seniors aren't struggling to make ends meet,- Rep. McGovern said. -Passing this bill is the right thing to do.- H.R. 5987 has been endorsed by the National Committee to Protect Social Security and Medicare and the Alliance for Retired Americans.
10.04.2010	Senator John Kerry, along with Congressmen Jim McGovern and John Olver, today announced that Massachusetts will receive $46,700,000 in funding to transform the state's public buses into a state-of-the-art electric hybrid fleet. The funding, including $39 million for Worcester, was awarded through U.S. Department of Transportation's State of Good Repair Program. The grants will also go towards green building and infrastructure investments, such as a green, LEED certified transit facility in Worcester. -This cash infusion will help keep Massachusetts at the forefront of clean energy by revolutionizing our bus fleet and modernizing our facilities,- said Sen. Kerry. -This is terrific news for Worcester,- said Rep. McGovern. -Worcester is a world-class city and its citizens deserve a world-class public transportation system. This $39 million federal grant will help us deliver exactly that. This federal grant is just another important piece of the puzzle as we revitalize our downtown with the construction of City Square, the expansion of the Canal District and other promising developments. I look forward to attending the grand opening of the new maintenance facility and thank all those involved for this great news.- -The purchase of new buses will allow transit authorities in the region to continue to offer quality service while simultaneously lowering costs for riders, themselves and the environment,- said Rep. Olver. -These competitive grant awards to the first Congressional district recognize the remarkable work of the PVTA and the MART in our region.- The following regional transit authorities have received transportation grants: Worcester $39,000,000 This award will provide funding to construct a state-of-the-art, LEED certified, maintenance and operations facility. Pioneer Valley Transit Authority $6,200,000 This award will provide funding to purchase 40 diesel-electric hybrid buses. Montachusett Regional Transit Authority $980,000 This award will provide funding for the facility rehabilitation (Heating, Ventilating, and Air Conditioning replacement and repaving). Montachusett Regional Transit Authority $520,000 This award will provide funding to purchase replacement buses.
10.01.2010	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today announced that the Wachusett Regional School District has been awarded $657,676 through the Carol M. White Physical Education Program. The White Program provides grants to improve physical education programs, including after-school programs, in order to help students make progress toward meeting state standards for physical education. Wachusett Regional will use the funding as part of the Be Fit! program, which aims to increase access to physical activity and nutrition education. -As Chairman of the House Hunger Caucus, I know how important it is to give our students a strong start in life - including exercise and good nutrition,- Rep. McGovern said. -I'm very pleased that the Department of Education has provided Wachusett with this funding. We are currently working in Congress to reauthorize the Child Nutrition Act, so that all of our children can have access to quality, nutritious food.- More information about the White Program can be found at http://www2.ed.gov/programs/whitephysed/index.html
10.01.2010	Jim was honored to be able to take part in the Red Cross Holiday Mail for Heroes program, sending along some personal holiday greetings to the brave men and women serving in our armed forces. In the PDF below is information about the program and how you can get involved.
09.24.2010	M. SPEAKER, I rise in support of this rule and the underlying legislation. Small businesses are drivers of economic growth, and play a pivotal role in creating jobs in our communities. In fact, in my home state of Massachusetts, small businesses represent 85 percent of companies and employ over a quarter of our workforce. As I meet with small business leaders across my district, I hear time and time again that access to capital - dollars which allow our small business to invest and to grow - is a main concern, especially in times of economic hardship. It is clear to me that small businesses are a vital component of economic recovery. As we work to rebuild our economy and create good paying jobs here at home, we must support the efforts of small businesses across the country. That is why, M. Speaker, we must act today to pass this legislation. H.R. 5297 goes a long way in helping our nation's small businesses thrive. Specifically, this bill authorizes the creation of a Small Business Lending Fund which will enable community banks to increase lending to small businesses. It raises Small Business Administration loan limits and improves access to these loans. It provides grants to states in support of small business lending programs. In addition to creating future opportunities for investment, this bill provides small businesses across our country with $12 billion in tax cuts, and includes a 100 percent exclusion from capital gains taxes on small business investments. These tax breaks will make it easier for businesses to operate, and will increase their capacity to grow. As we invest in our small businesses, we forge a path toward economic prosperity for so many Americans - for not only the small business owners, but for those who will be employed by these companies. Improving small businesses' access to capital will foster innovation and encourage the development of new products and services to carry our country forward. Simply put, M. Speaker, we have no choice but to act now. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this rule and the underlying legislation. I yield back the balance of my time.
09.17.2010	M. Speaker, we all know that too many Americans are unemployed. Too many Americans families are having trouble paying their energy bills. Too many of our manufacturing jobs have gone overseas to China and other countries. Now, the Democratic Congress has brought bill after bill after bill to the floor to help American families weather these time economic times and make long-term investments in a clean economy so the United States maintains its status as the world leader in innovation. And, every time, my friends on the other side of the aisle have overwhelming voted -no.- Unfortunately, I think that will be their strategy today on this Rural Star bill. This is a good, cost-effective bill. Rural Star will create high-skill, high-wage manufacturing and construction jobs while delivering energy savings to millions of Americans by providing access to capital and energy efficient technologies. In fact, the National Association of Home Builders endorsed this bill, saying that H.R. 4785 will quote - -save energy for American families, create jobs, and reap environmental rewards.- - end quote. I ask unanimous consent to insert the Home Builder's letter of support into the record at the end of my remarks. And let's not forget that this bill will put people to work, keep good-paying manufacturing jobs here in the United States and lower the utility bills of families and farms across the country. The truth is, more than 92 percent of energy efficiency products are manufactured here in America. We're talking about insulation, windows, doors, and water heaters. That's why this is so important - a family or business will not only hire someone to install these energy efficiency products, these products will be made in our backyard. Make it in America - that's what Democrats want and what we stand for. There shouldn't be one Member in this body who opposes putting Americans to work in this fashion. And not only will H.R. 4785 result in more American jobs, it will lower families' and farms' utility bills. This is particularly important in rural areas, where customers are facing increasing costs for electric power. Rural electric co-ops are facing a growing demand for electric power at a time when they are constrained from building new generation capacity. The gentleman from South Carolina, Mr. Inglis, supports this bill because the positive impacts on rural electric co-ops and he said so during his testimony at the Rules Committee. I want to thank Mr. Inglis for his support and for putting American jobs over partisanship today. To my colleagues who argue this bill will cost too much, I want to remind them that the programs in the bill involve loans, not grants. These loans must be repaid. CBO has analyzed the legislation and concluded that it does not score. The legislation is fully compliant with statutory PAYGO and House PAYGO rules. I hope everyone will take a close look at the important provisions in the Rural Star bill that will put Americans to work and help transition us to a stable clean energy economy of tomorrow. I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying bill, and reserve the balance of my time.
09.09.2010	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today commended President Obama for proposing a significant tax break for U.S. businesses on equipment purchases and urged the leadership of the House and Senate to take the measure up quickly. -I've talked to many, many small business owners who are eager to purchase new equipment,- Rep. McGovern said. -I believe that giving these entrepreneurs some tax relief is the right thing to do. When Congress returns from the August recess, I will urge the House Leadership to bring this important issue to the floor.- President Obama's proposal would allow businesses to fully deduct qualified capital investments through the end of 2011. Currently, businesses write off depreciation of their equipment purchases over the -life-span- of that equipment. Under the plan supported by Rep. McGovern, businesses would be able to take the full deduction right away. -This tax relief would put nearly $200 billion into the hands of businesses over the next two years,- Rep. McGovern said. -Using that money to invest in new equipment would spur economic growth and create new jobs. It's the right thing to do.-
08.10.2010	M. Speaker, I rise in support of the rule and the underlying bill. Our communities are struggling. Forty-seven states are facing budget shortfalls, and at least 34 states will cut both jobs and services in this fiscal year unless there is an additional six-month extension of the FMAP program. All of us are hearing from our governors. In June, a bipartisan group of governors wrote to Congress pleading for an extension of FMAP money because they believe it is the most efficient way to avoid further layoffs and health care cuts that will slow the recovery. At a time when states like Massachusetts are starting to see unemployment rates decrease, now is not the time to pull the rug out from under them. If we were to fail our states and not enact this extension, 2,400 teaching, police and firefighter jobs in Massachusetts would be at risk. What would that mean for classroom size, cops on the street and firefighter response? To put it mildly, it wouldn't be good. This is exactly the type of nation-building we should be focusing on. Here at home. And I wish that my friends on the other side of the aisle and the other chamber could realize that. It's important to note that this bill is not only essential - it's paid for. In fact, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office finds this bill will cut the deficit by $1.4 billion over the next decade. If only the Bush tax cuts or the Medicare prescription drug benefit or the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were paid for, we wouldn't be facing the deficit issues we are today. M. Speaker, I would be remiss if I didn't express my deep concern with one of the offsets in this bill. Specifically, I think it's awful that the Senate has sent us a bill that cuts future funding for the SNAP program, formerly known as food stamps. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act rightfully including significant funding for SNAP. Economists from the right and left argue that SNAP is the most effective stimulus available today. And we rightfully included funding for increased SNAP benefits in the Recovery Act. Yet the Senate has included a cut in these SNAP benefits that will result in $59 less per month for a family of 4 starting 2014. The choice, then, is to provide critical aid to the states and protect jobs for teachers, firefighters and police officers today or protect future benefits for those hungry Americans who struggle to put food on their tables. It's not a choice we should be forced to make. It frustrates me to no end, and quite frankly I'm outraged- that this is one of the offsets. I would ask my friends in the Senate- why do the most vulnerable in our country always have pay more than their fair share? This practice of robbing Peter to Pay Paul must come to an end. Yet here we are. M. Speaker, I will support this bill because it will help the people of Massachusetts and the country. This bill will do good things, and it will do them immediately. But I'm casting this vote because we have time to fix this SNAP issue in the future. I continue to believe that we can properly fund the SNAP program, as well as other domestic anti-hunger programs, and ensure that no person in America goes hungry. I believe that in the richest, most powerful nation in the world, people shouldn't go hungry. Millions of our fellow citizens, sadly, don't have enough to eat and that's a national disgrace. Let's improve this bill-- Let's help keep teachers in the classrooms, cops on the streets, and more firefighters in our cities and towns -- and then when we come after the recess do what's right and restore SNAP cuts. Let's find another offset that doesn't make a bad situation worse. For America's hungry and food insecure, let's, for once, make them a priority. I yield back the balance of my time.
07.22.2010	M. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and the underlying bill. M. Speaker, it's about time. For 7 weeks, millions of Americans who have lost their jobs - through no fault of their own - have worried about how they're going to pay for groceries, pay their mortgage or pay for their children's college tuitions. They've sat around their kitchen tables and made tough decisions about their family budgets. And through this all, they've continued to apply for job after job after job. That's what unemployed Americans have done during these past 7 weeks. But what have Senate Republicans done to help them? To restore benefits to Americans who have earned them through a lifetime of work? Nothing. Sure, they've talked a lot about extending the Bush tax cuts for their wealthy friends which they don't want to pay for. And sure, they've made a lot of noise characterizing unemployment benefits as a government handout or as somehow encouraging lazy behavior. But, I would challenge any of my Republican colleagues to say those things face-to-face to someone who's been out of work for a year. Who's applied for job after job after job without getting any response. M. Speaker, the facts don't lie. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, extending unemployment benefits is the most efficient way for the government to generate economic growth. Each $1 spent on unemployment benefits creates up to $1.90 (one dollar and ninety cents) in economic output. Extending these benefits also creates jobs and decreases the chances that we slip into a double dip recession. Let me remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle of a recent statement from Mark Zandi, Chief Economist at Moody's Analytics and an advisor to Senator McCain during his 2008 presidential campaign. And I quote, -I firmly believe that extending emergency unemployment insurance benefits and providing more help for the state governments is vital at this point to ensure that the housing downturn doesn't take the broader economy with it.- End quote. In every other economic crisis in American history, Democrats and Republicans have put aside their partisan differences and provided emergency unemployment benefits to those Americans who have lost their jobs. M. Speaker, House Democrats did our job. On July 1st, we passed an extension of benefits that would have restored benefits for those who lost them in early June. It would have also ensured that jobless Americans would have the peace-of-mind of knowing that benefits were available to them through the end of November while they continued to apply for jobs. Since then, we have worked and reworked this benefits extension to address Republican concerns. But every time, we've been stonewalled by Republican obstructionism. They'd rather use unemployed Americans as political pawns instead of restoring benefits to good, decent, hardworking people who have earned them over a lifetime of work. Enough is enough. I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying bill.
07.02.2010	Congressman McGovern joins three other Members of Congress in requesting the declassification of documents related to returning Prisoners-of-War after the Vietnam conflict. See below.
07.02.2010	M. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rule and of the underlying bill. During my time in Congress, I haven't had a single constituent say to me, -You know, Jim - I think there should be more special interest money in politics.- Obviously, the conservative activist judges that now make up the majority of the Supreme Court don't live in my district. Because in January, the Court tossed aside decades of established law and legal precedent by ruling that corporations and unions can spend unlimited amounts of money in federal elections. As Justice John Paul Stevens pointed out in his dissent, the decision "would appear to afford the same protection to multinational corporations controlled by foreigners as to individual Americans." It's a sad state of affairs when -Swift Boating- has entered the language as a verb. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court's decision makes Swift Boating easier for the special interests. Large multinational corporations would now be able to create shadowy groups and pour millions of dollars into supporting or defeating candidates. If BP doesn't like somebody, they could create -Americans for Sensible Energy- and run attack ad after attack ad after attack ad. While we cannot undo the Court's decision, we can and we must try to minimize its impact. That's why the sensible, bipartisan legislation before us today is so important. The DISCLOSE Act will go a long way toward restoring openness and transparency in our political process. And I want to commend Chris Van Hollen and Mike Castle for their work on the bill. This legislation does several important things. It requires the heads of these third-party organizations to -stand by their ad,- just like political candidates are required to do. It requires the organization to list its top five contributors onscreen at the end of the ad. It would ban U.S. corporations that are controlled by foreign interests and foreign companies - like BP - from making political expenditures in our elections. And it would prohibit entities that receive large amounts of taxpayer money - like Wall Street banks and government contractors - from pouring money into politics. The bill is supported by the League of Women Voters, Public Citizen, Common Cause and other national reform groups. To be sure, this bill isn't perfect. It contains an exemption for certain, longstanding organizations that take a small amount of corporate or union money. I know a lot of us aren't particularly pleased with that change, but we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the very good. Moving forward, I would urge my colleagues to examine a bill offered by my colleague from Massachusetts, Mike Capuano, the Shareholder Protection Act. This bill would give shareholders a voice in how companies spend their money. Opponents of this bill have already begun making noises about challenging it in court. I would remind them that polls show that the American people are overwhelmingly supportive of this reform. We must do all we can to bring more openness and transparency to our political process. The DISCLOSE Act before us today is a vital step. I urge my colleagues to support the rule and the underlying bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
07.02.2010	-Clearly, General McChrystal's comments were inappropriate. But I am much more concerned about the direction of our policy in Afghanistan than I am about the general's comments. I'm concerned about the corrupt and incompetent Karzai government. I'm concerned about the hundreds of billions of dollars we're spending on ‘nation-building' in Afghanistan when we need to do some more nation-building here at home. And above all, I am concerned about the safety and well-being of our troops and their families who have sacrificed so much. I believe that we need a thorough re-examination of our policy. This is much, much bigger than a few ill-chosen words.-
07.02.2010	Congressman McGovern joins 47 other Members of Congress in demanding that BP 'clean up before it pays out'. See below attachment:
07.02.2010	Rich text editor, body, press ALT 0 for help. Congressman McGovern is continuing to host one-on-one office hours in his congressional district this year. He welcomes the opportunity to meet with constituents to discuss any issues or concerns they may have. Please kindly make every effort to attend the office hours scheduled in your particular community. Thank you. Saturday, June 12, 2010 Somerset 9:30 - 10:30am Rogers Spa 1229 Wilbur Avenue Swansea 11:30am - 12:30pm Simply Simons 481 Wilbur Avenue Rehoboth 1:30 - 2:30pm Blanding Public Library 124 Bay State Road Seekonk 3 - 4pm Best Pizza 301 Taunton Avenue Saturday, June 19, 2010 North Attleboro 11am - 12pm Richards Memorial Library 118 N Washington Street Plainville 1 - 2pm Plainville Fire Station 157 South Street Wrentham 2:30 - 3:30pm Fiske Public Library - Genealogy Room 110 Randall Road Franklin 4 - 5pm Cafe Dolce 17 East Central Street Medway 6 - 7pm Fire Station 1 - Headquarters 44 Milford Street
07.02.2010	Hunger and obesity are serious problems in this country. Over 49 million Americans go hungry every year, 17 million of which are children. And now we have a new problem - obesity. Most people think obesity is a simple problem of eating the wrong food, and this is mostly correct. But there are many cases where obese people are also hungry; that they are feeding themselves and their families with empty calories simply because they are inexpensive. We must address hunger and obesity, and I'm pleased that the First Lady is working on these issues. But now obesity is a national security issue. Twenty-seven percent of young adults are too fat to serve in the military and being overweight is now the leading cause for rejection from military service. Our amendment is simple - it says that hunger and obesity are national security problems and must be addressed. And it says we should do so, in part, with the reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Act. The School Lunch program was created in World War II because forty percent of the rejected recruits were underweight. In fact, the preamble to School Lunch Act states that the school lunch program was created, quote, -as a measure of national security- end quote. Healthy school meals, along with more exercise and better access to food at home, will help combat the national security crisis of obesity. I reserve the balance of my time.
07.02.2010	Senator John Kerry, Congressman Barney Frank and Congressman Jim McGovern today praised a declaration by the National Park Service that deals a major blow to the proposal to construct a Liquid Natural Gas terminal at Weaver's Cove in Fall River. The decision was based on the fact that last spring the Taunton River was named a federal -Wild and Scenic River.- The river received this official designation because of a provision, introduced in the Senate by the late-Senator Kennedy and in the House by Congressman Frank, and co-sponsored by Senator Kerry and Congressman McGovern, that was included in the Public Lands Management Act (H.R. 146) which became law in March 2009. Jonathan Jarvis, Director of the National Park Service, wrote in a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) that -the Department of the Interior will be unable to find this project [the proposal to site an LNG terminal at Weaver's Cove] consistent with the Taunton Wild and Scenic River designation under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968, as required by FERC.- The National Park Service's decision comes after a more than seven-year effort by Massachusetts legislators to stop construction of an LNG terminal in Weaver's Cove. The recent decision by the National Park Service follows discussions between the legislators and NPS Director Jonathan Jarvis, in which they argued strongly that constructing an LNG terminal at Weaver's Cove would not be appropriate given the -Wild and Scenic River- designation. "This is a big step toward stopping once and for all the development of the LNG facility in Fall River. The Director took very seriously our concerns. I am very pleased that Director Jarvis has agreed that any potential LNG facility is inconsistent with the Taunton River's Wild and Scenic designation. Congressman Frank and McGovern and I have been working closely with the National Park Service on this issue for many years, and we'll continue to work to make sure that no LNG facility is ever built on the Taunton River," Senator Kerry said. -My colleagues and I had been working to designate the Taunton River -Wild and Scenic- several years before the proposal to site an LNG terminal at Weaver's Cove,- said Congressman Frank. -This reflects our belief that the river deserves to be protected. I would like to thank Director Jarvis and the National Park Service for affirming that fact. My colleagues and I are planning future steps to make sure that no LNG terminal is constructed on the scenic Taunton River, and people in the area should be reassured that we are going to be able to stop it.- "I welcome this strong statement from the National Park Service," Rep. McGovern said. "The people of Fall River and Somerset have spent an incredible amount of time, energy and money to block this ill-conceived LNG proposal. Enough is enough. It's time for Hess to come to grips with reality and go away."
07.02.2010	Congressman McGovern is continuing to host one-on-one office hours in his congressional district this year. He welcomes the opportunity to meet with constituents to discuss any issues or concerns they may have. Please kindly make every effort to attend the office hours scheduled in your particular community. Future office hour dates, times and locations in Congressman McGovern's district will be posted on this website shortly. Please check back periodically for updates and details. Thank you. Saturday, May 22nd, 2010 Southborough 8 - 9am Mauro's Village Cafe 2 Main Street Westborough 9:30 - 10:30am Tatnuck Bookseller 18 Lyman Street Ashland 11:30 - 12:30am Town Hall 101 Main Street Holliston 1 - 2pm Town Hall, Selectman's Office 703 Washington Street Hopkinton 3 - 4pm Bill's Pizza 14 Main Street
07.02.2010	
07.02.2010	May 5, 2010 Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman Jim McGovern today announced that Bells Powder Coating, Inc. of North Attleborough will receive $150,000 in technical assistance from the Department of Commerce through the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) for Firms program. Bells Powder Coating, Inc., a manufacturer of powder coating, currently employs 17 workers. By providing financial assistance to those manufacturers affected by import competition, the TAA for Firms program helps domestic manufacturers compete more effectively with their foreign counterparts. -This investment will help Bells Powder Coating and its 17 workers continue to fuel North Attleborough's economy. I'm pleased that the Department of Commerce recognized the urgent needs of Massachusetts companies and is providing the help needed to remain competitive at home and around the world,- said Senator Kerry. -Massachusetts' manufacturers are an important economic engine in our state, and I am pleased that the Commerce Department has provided this targeted assistance to help keep them competitive in the global marketplace,- said Senator Brown. -Bells Powder Coating is an important participant in North Attleborough's economy,- Rep. McGovern said. -This Department of Commerce money will help Paul Belham and his team continue to remain competitive and to grow.- The funding will help the company cover the cost of the development and implementation of a sales and marketing plan to increases sales and profitability; the development and implementation of a strategic business plan to outline a road map towards recovery; and the development and implementation of a process improvement plan for higher productivity and quality with reduced elapsed time and waste. Since 1986, the New England Trade Adjustment Assistance Center has helped manufacturers obtain assistance totaling over $30 million from the Department of Commerce. For more information about the funding, please visit www.netaac.org.
07.02.2010	May 3, 2010 Water pipe rupture causing severe hardship for families, businesses Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressmen Edward Markey, Barney Frank, Stephen Lynch, James McGovern, Richard Neal, John Tierney, Niki Tsongas, Michael Capuano, John Olver, and William Delahunt today thanked President Barack Obama for issuing a disaster declaration for Massachusetts as a result of the water pipe rupture this past weekend. An official disaster declaration paves the way for federal dollars to help cover the costs of repairs. A ruptured water pipe disrupted the flow of clean water to approximately two million people in the greater Boston area on Saturday. Though the broken pipe has been fixed and is currently operating at full capacity, a boil order remains in effect for the entire region. The cause of the rupture is still unknown. -President Obama came through for Massachusetts. We were literally writing a letter as a delegation speaking with one voice when we got the news that the President was ready to act already. This news came just in time. We've got families without drinking water, senior citizens on fixed incomes buying bottled water, and businesses that have had to shut down. This is an emergency by any definition. People are hurting and they need our help now. I'll continue to work closely with Governor Patrick, our delegation and MWRA, along with other federal, state and local officials to make sure aid keeps flowing to these communities right away,- said Senator John Kerry. -This weekend's disaster upended daily life for millions of Massachusetts residents in and around Boston. With repairs on track, I am pleased that the administration acted quickly to get our state the federal resources it needs to recover,- said Senator Scott Brown. -I commend Governor Patrick for his swift response to this crisis and I also commend the Obama Administration for acting quickly to help the residents and business affected by this weekend's water system failure by issuing a disaster declaration,- said Rep. Ed Markey (D-Mass.). "I am pleased the President responded so promptly to our calls for help,- said Congressman Barney Frank. -Boston and the surrounding communities have been hit hard by the water shortage,- Congressman Stephen F. Lynch said. -I thank President Obama for issuing this disaster declaration. This will greatly assist our state and local governments in their response as well as aid the families and businesses that have been impacted.- -I'm pleased that the Administration has acted so quickly on this disaster declaration,- Rep. McGovern said. -This pipe rupture has had a significant and negative effect on our citizens and our economy.- "The serious and unprecedented water main break in Weston has left thousands of Massachusetts families without clean drinking water, and left the commonwealth in a state of emergency. After dealing with the devastating floods that caused so much damage last month, our public health and law enforcement officials are now working around the clock in an effort to resolve the latest crisis. I am confident that the swift coordinated response from the federal, state and local governments will resolve this problem in Greater Boston very soon," said Congressman Richard E. Neal. -This weekend's water pipe rupture placed an enormous strain on local residents and small businesses,- said Congressman John Tierney. -I am pleased that President Obama acted quickly and issued a disaster declaration today. These federal funds will help reduce the burden as our communities continue to repair the damage and ensure that families have access to clean water.- -The ruptured water pipe has caused a major disruption in the lives of millions of residents in Eastern Massachusetts, and the Commonwealth has had to bear the full cost of this unanticipated event. The President acted swiftly and appropriately in approving the federal disaster declaration this afternoon,- said Congresswoman Niki Tsongas.
07.02.2010	April 29, 2010 Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman James McGovern today announced that the Holden Fire Department will receive $30,020 under the Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. The federal funding will be used for wildland firefighting equipment -- light-weight fire protection equipment for use during brush fires. -This is a moral issue, pure and simple. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day and we've got a fundamental responsibility to keep them as safe as possible. This investment will allow Chief John Chandler to upgrade equipment and enhance the department's ability to respond to emergency situations quickly and effectively,- said Senator Kerry. -Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the financial resources to keep them safe in their incredibly dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive upgraded equipment that will allow them to better carry out their work,- said Senator Brown. -This is good news for the Holden Fire Department,- Rep. McGovern said. -Homeland security starts with hometown security. I'm pleased that Chief Chandler and his team will be able to upgrade their equipment and better protect the citizens of Holden.- -Without this equipment, firefighters would either wear their structural personal protective equipment - which is too hot and too heavy to use safely - or they would wear their street clothes, which don't provide adequate protection,- Chief Chandler said. -This equipment, which could not have been purchased without the help of the grant, will improve firefighter safety significantly during the brushfire season.-
07.02.2010	April 26, 2010 Senators John Kerry and Scott Brown, together with Congressman James McGovern today announced that the Worcester Fire Department will receive $2,227,378 as part of the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant program. The federal funding will enable departments to increase the number of trained, "front line" firefighters that are available in our communities. The Worcester Fire Department will be able to hire 17 new firefighters. The national program aims to enhance our local fire departments' abilities to comply with staffing, response and operational standards established by the National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). -This is a moral issue, pure and simple. Our firefighters put their lives on the line every day and we've got a fundamental responsibility to keep them as safe as possible. This investment will allow Chief Gerard Dio to enhance the department's ability to respond to emergency situations quickly and effectively,- said Senator Kerry. -Every day, our hardworking firefighters risk their lives to keep our families and communities safe, and we owe it to them to provide the financial resources to keep them safe in their incredibly dangerous jobs. This funding is an important step in that direction, and I am pleased our firefighters will soon receive resources that will allow them to better carry out their work,- said Senator Brown. -This is terrific - and timely - news for Worcester,- Rep. McGovern said. -I believe that homeland security starts with hometown security. And given the budget constraints facing the city right now, this federal funding is particularly welcome. I have been, and will continue to be, a strong supporter of the SAFER program.- "I am most grateful to Sens. Kerry and Brown, Rep. McGovern and Chief Dio of our WFD for their efforts and for their continued leadership on behalf of our great city," said Worcester City Manager Michael V. O'Brien. "The Worcester Fire Department will now be able to hire 17 new firefighters to be ready to take on their roles by the Fall of 2010, at a time when I expect a wave of firefighter retirements. This would not have been possible without these grant dollars due to continued budget strain. As always, our plan incorporates future retirements to adapt back to our current staffing levels when this funding expires in two years."
07.02.2010	Rich text editor, body, press ALT 0 for help. U.S. Representative James P. McGovern (D-MA) is pleased to announce the addition of three new members to his congressional staff in the Worcester district office (34 Mechanic Street). Kelly Brissette has been appointed as District Scheduler and will serve as the primary point of contact for constituents and organizations seeking to meet with Congressman McGovern or invite him to public events throughout the Third Congressional District. Mrs. Brissette is a native of Worcester, MA and a graduate of Boston College with Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science. She previously worked as a legislative aide to former State Senator Guy Glodis, now Sheriff of Worcester County, and as the scheduler on Congressman McGovern's 1998 re-election campaign. She currently lives in Worcester with her husband John and their two sons. Kathleen O'Connell Polanowicz has been appointed as a District Representative. She is responsible for a number of important issue areas including immigration casework, transportation, energy and the environment. Mrs. Polanowicz is a licensed attorney and recently practiced law in the offices of Harold P. Naughton in Clinton, MA. She is a former member and Chair of the Board of Selectmen in Northborough, MA and currently serves as Chair of the Northborough Housing Authority. Mrs. Polanowicz is a graduate of Marymount College and Santa Clara University School of Law. She resides in Northborough with her husband John and their two children. Alex Desilets has also been appointed as a District Representative. Mr. Desilets will assist with responding to constituent correspondence and casework in addition to providing administrative support to the office. He is a native of Lancaster, MA and recently graduated summa cum laude from Worcester State College with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history and a minor in political science. While earning his degree, Mr. Desilets volunteered as an intern in Congressman McGovern's Worcester district office and worked part-time as an executive assistant for an electronic security firm in Worcester. -I am thrilled Kelly, Kathleen and Alex have joined my congressional staff,- Rep. McGovern said. -They will be of tremendous assistance to the people I am privileged to represent in the U.S. House of Representatives, and I look forward to the many great contributions they will make to our team.-
07.02.2010	Rich text editor, body, press ALT 0 for help. Congressman McGovern is once again hosting one-on-one office hours in his congressional district this year. He welcomes the opportunity to meet with constituents to discuss any issues or concerns they may have. Please kindly make every effort to attend the office hours scheduled in your particular community. Future office hour dates, times and locations in Congressman McGovern's district will be posted on this website shortly. Please check back periodically for updates and details. Thank you. Saturday, May 1st, 2010 West Boylston 7:30 - 8:30am The Manor Restaurant 42 West Boylston Street Clinton 9 - 10am Mr. Z's Pizza 267 High Street Boylston 10:30 - 11:30am Boylston Library 695 Main Street Northborough 12 - 1pm Davidian Farms 500 Church Street Shrewsbury 4 - 5pm Border's Bookstore 476 Boston Turnpike Saturday, May 15th, 2010 Princeton 8 - 9am Sonoma Restaurant 206 Worcester Road Holden 9:30 - 10:30am Sweets & Java 1207 Main Street Rutland 11:30am - 12:30pm Rutland Library 280 Main Street Paxton 3:30 - 4:30pm John Bauer Senior Center 17 West Street Auburn 5 - 6pm Auburn Town Pizza 69 Auburn Street
07.02.2010	April 14, 2010 M. Speaker, After 8 long years, hundreds of billions of dollars in deficit spending and - most importantly - thousands of our brave soldiers killed or wounded, it is past time to re-examine our strategy in Afghanistan. Instead of nation-building in Afghanistan, I believe we should be doing some more nation-building here at home. The American people deserve accountability - in terms of how and when our troops will be returned to their families and in terms of how taxpayer dollars are being spent. Today, Congressman Walter Jones and I introduced legislation that would require the president to provide a plan and timetable for drawing down our forces in Afghanistan and identify any variables that could require changes to that timetable. I should note that the bill does not set a specific date for withdrawal. The bill would safeguard U.S. taxpayer dollars by ensuring all U.S. activity in Afghanistan be overseen by an Inspector General. We must aggressively go after Al Qaeda and its allies - wherever they are. But I am not convinced that a long-term occupation of Afghanistan in support of a corrupt, incompetent government is in our best national security interests. I urge my colleagues to join us in this effort.
03.26.2010	March 25, 2010 U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today announced that he has introduced legislation to restore the ability of states to play a necessary and vital role in the process of siting Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) facilities. The bill (HR 4922) repeals a provision in the 2005 Energy bill that gave the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) the exclusive authority to site LNG facilities. U.S. Reps. Barney Frank (D-MA), Patrick Kennedy (D-RI) and James Langevin (D-RI) are original co-sponsors of the bill. U.S. Sen. Ron Wyden (D-OR) has introduced the legislation in the Senate. FERC does not currently seek adequate input from states in LNG siting reviews, and governors lack veto authority for onshore LNG terminals, despite having that authority for offshore terminals under the Deepwater Port Act. Although states and localities face all the potential risks and impacts of a LNG facility, they lack an equal voice in the siting and approval process. Prior to the 2005 Energy Bill, such decisions had historically been made by siting agencies in each state. -The people of Southeastern Massachusetts have made it crystal clear that they do not want an LNG terminal in Fall River,- Rep. McGovern said. -This legislation would ensure that those voices are heard. It's time to restore the decision-making power to the state authorities who have a greater understanding of local needs and concerns.- -I strongly support Congressman McGovern's bill that will undo the Bush-era energy provisions that give the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission too much authority,- Rep Frank said. -And I will continue to work with Congressman McGovern and Senator Kerry to defeat the ill-advised LNG proposal.- -The costs and benefits of proposed LNG facilities will be borne out by the states, so it only makes sense that states should be involved in the process of siting them,- Rep Kennedy said. -In the case of Weaver's Cove, the people of Rhode Island and southeast Massachusetts have spoken loudly against this dangerous and ill-conceived project. It is time for federal law to reflect that reality and allow states to have a greater say about those facilities they support and those they oppose.- -Rhode Islanders deserve to be involved in the siting of LNG terminals that will be located in their neighborhoods and that will affect how they travel around the state,- Rep. Langevin said. -I am pleased to support Congressman McGovern's efforts to ensure states have the opportunity to fully and equally participate in this process.- The bill has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.
03.22.2010	Mr. Speaker, this is an historic day for all of us in the House. We have the opportunity to enact real, meaningful health insurance reform that will improve the lives of millions of our fellow citizens. We can end the most abusive practices of the insurance companies. We can provide coverage to millions of hard-working families. We can bring down the costs of health care for families and small businesses. We can close the doughnut hole in Medicare and extend the solvency of that vital program. And we can pass the biggest deficit reduction package in 25 years. All we need is the courage to do what's right. Today is especially meaningful for those of us from Massachusetts. As we all know, 7 months ago our friend and mentor Ted Kennedy lost his battle with brain cancer. When he passed away, I said that while no one could ever fill his shoes, we can and we must follow in his footsteps. And that is exactly what we are doing today. We have already taken important steps in Massachusetts to deal with the health care issue. I am proud to say that according to census data, the 3rd Congressional District that I am honored to represent has the highest rate of coverage - over 97% -- of any district in the country. And people back home often ask me: -Why do we need to pass a federal bill when we already have insurance here in our state?- So I'd like to talk for just a moment about what the reform before us today will mean for Massachusetts. 75,000 additional middle class people will receive help to pay for their premiums. Nearly 180,000 of our seniors will receive a 50% discount on their prescription drugs. 70,000 small businesses - the innovators and job creators - will receive a credit to help cover the cost of insuring their workers. Our community health centers, our hospitals, our medical research centers - all will receive support to continue their great work. And we will no longer be forced to subsidize - through higher premiums and higher Medicare and Medicaid costs - the uncompensated care of people in other states who don't have health insurance. If we want to create jobs - and we all do - then passing this bill is absolutely essential. A few weeks ago I talked to a small business owner in my district. Business has picked up lately, and he wanted to hire another employee. Then he got his health insurance bill, and realized he couldn't afford it. He'll just have to work harder, and spend less time with his family. That's who this debate is all about. That's why today is so important. Senator Kennedy said that providing access to health care is a QUOTE -fundamental principle of justice and the character of our country.- As usual, he was right. And today, in this House, the work goes on and the cause endures. I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
03.15.2010	
03.10.2010	Senator John Kerry, Congressman Barney Frank, and Congressman Jim McGovern today hailed the announcement by the U.S. Department of Transportation that it would award $2.6 million to the Southeastern Regional Transit Authority (SRTA) and $200,000 to the Greater Attleboro-Taunton Regional Transit Authority (GATRTA). Both grants, as well as four others awarded to other Massachusetts tranportation systems, were made possible by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, popularly known as the -stimulus bill.- The grant to the SRTA will allow for the purchase of eight new buses for the transit system's fleet. The SRTA bus system serves New Bedford, Fall River, Dartmouth, Acushnet, Wesport, Somerset, Swansea and Mattapoisett. The funds for the GATRTA will be used to replace or repair fencing at the Attleboro Commuter Rail Station, and will also continue renovation of the rail station. -This transportation investment means jobs, jobs, and jobs on in Southeastern Massachusetts, and a long term dividend in less traffic congestion and modern infrastructure to get our products from here to there. It's good for the economy, good for struggling workers, good for our businesses, and good for our environment,- said Senator Kerry. -Public transportation is very important economically, environmentally and socially,- said Congressman Frank. -These funds will bring both economic and environmental benefits to the area and also provide important services to our citizens. I welcome of these latest examples of good uses of the economic recovery funds.- -I'm very pleased with this important funding,- Rep. McGovern said. -In order for us to compete in the 21st Century economy - in order to create the jobs of the future - we must have a safe, modern and environmentally-friendly transportation system.- Kerry, Frank and McGovern all voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009. In the House, almost every Democrat voted in favor of the bill, while every single Republican voted against it. In the Senate, every Democratic voted in favor of the bill, while every Republican except three opposed it. More information about these grants are attached.
02.05.2010	M. Speaker. The resolution provides for consideration of the Senate amendment to H.J. Res. 45, the debt limit and statutory PAYGO resolution. The rule makes in order a motion offered by the Majority Leader or a designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment. The rule waives all points of order against the motion except those arising under clause 10 of House rule 21 and provides one hour of debate on the motion. The rule divides the question between concurring in the matter preceding title I of the Senate amendment and concurring in titles I and II of the amendment. The first portion of the question shall be considered as adopted. If the second portion fails, then the House will be considered to have made no disposition of the Senate amendment. M. Speaker, this vote is both historic and difficult. It's historic because it's reinstating the Pay-As-You-Go law, or PAYGO. This is one tool in the effort to reduce the deficit and return fiscal common sense back to our budget. And it's difficult because this resolution includes a $1.9 trillion increase in the debt limit. Let me begin with the debt limit. None of us are eager to increase the debt limit, but we have a responsibility to take action. The Treasury Department has informed Congress that the United States will reach the current statutory limit on the national debt on February 11th. That's next Thursday. If the debt limit is not increased before that date, Treasury will not be able to meet the obligations of the U.S. government. Simply, Mr. Speaker, if we don't act then we will default. I can't think of a more reckless or irresponsible act. Defaulting is not an option. If the United States defaults, investors will lose confidence that the U.S. will honor its debts in the future. They would likely demand higher interest rates to compensate for the higher risk of purchasing Treasury securities. This would increase the cost of federal borrowing, result in even greater budget deficits, and require higher taxes and fewer government services. A greater portion of U.S. wealth would be transferred to overseas creditors - to China, India, and Saudi Arabia. It's also possible that those creditors would demand that the U.S. borrow in other currencies rather than dollars - putting in peril the very value and stability of the American dollar. It's clear that the responsible course of action is to raise the debt limit. It's also clear that we're in this position because of the policies that have been implemented over the past decade. Ten years ago, we had a budget surplus. Since then, our country was attacked and the worst recession in our lifetimes took a severe economic toll on our nation's economy. But we also had 2 wars that were unpaid for, tax cuts that were unpaid for, and a prescription drug benefit that was unpaid for. Yes, Republicans and Democrats have had to increase the debt limit because of these policies and events. Unfortunately, we have to do so again today. Now, I know there will be those who want to use this vote as a way to demagogue this issue. There will be those on my side of the aisle who will detail how the policies of the last 8 years put us in this position and there will be those who use this debate to claim that this recession is the fault of Democrats. M. Speaker, it is my hope that nobody in this Chamber would put our nation at such financial and economic risk for such petty politics. My friend and Massachusetts colleague, Congressman Neal, said it best in the Rules Committee last night. If you voted to go to war in Iraq or Afghanistan, if you voted for the tax cuts, or if you voted the Recovery Act - then you have to vote to raise the debt ceiling. The American people don't want us to point fingers at each other; they want us to take action. They want us to solve our nation's problems. And they want us to do so in a constructive manner. The blame game isn't what they want. Increasing the debt limit is a responsible action, but it doesn't address the underlying problem - the problem of the deficit. And that's where statutory PAYGO comes in. Statutory PAYGO requires all new policies reducing revenues or expanding entitlement spending enacted during a session of Congress be offset - that means paid for, Mr. Speaker - over five and ten years. In plain English, we have to pay for what we buy. While it's not the only step we can take, this is a solid step towards fiscal discipline. And I would note that the Statutory PAYGO Act establishes points of order in the House only to the extent it does so explicitly. Why is this legislation - why is PAYGO - so important? Because our fiscal health and long-term economic prosperity depend upon it. We must find a balance between short-term deficit spending to speed along our economic recovery with longer-term fiscal discipline. Dick Cheney famously said that deficits don't matter. Well, I believe they do matter and I'm glad to hear that my Republican friends now agree with Democrats that deficits do matter. I trust that, at the end of the day, they will vote that way too. But whether you vote for this resolution or not, you must at least admit that President Obama and Democrats are facing this problem head on. We are making sure we responsibly meet our financial obligations; we are instituting PAYGO so that we pay for the programs that we are funding; and we expect President Obama to formalize a debt commission soon. These are important steps. I urge my colleagues to do the right thing, to vote for this rule and for this resolution. I reserve the balance of my time. M. Speaker, we've had an enlightening debate here today. The differences between Democrats and Republicans couldn't be clearer. And this debate couldn't come at a better time. My friend from Texas pointed out that Republicans oppose spending for programs like Medicare and Social Security and that they favor tax cuts for the wealthy, for corporations that include Wall Street firms and big banks. My friend from Texas and his colleagues say they don't support PAYGO and they don't support increasing the debt limit. I guess that means they'd rather play politics rather than act responsibly to fix the problems that this country faces. President Obama said fixing this economy would not be easy and it wouldn't happen overnight. And that's clear. He took office and we implemented a bold plan to jumpstart the economy. And in the 4th quarter, we saw the U.S. economy grow at a 5.7% rate. Mark Zandi, co-founder f Moody's Economy.com and former McCain economic advisor said, quote: -We're headed in the right direct… the recovery has begun. I think prospects are that job growth will continue and we will have enough job growth to bring up unemployment and then good things will happen- end quote. Instead of working together to fix the economy, my Republican colleagues have decided to try and use this recession for political gain. They obstructed and opposed all efforts to jumpstart the economy. They voted against the recovery act, against the jobs creation bill, and - except for one brave vote - against the health care bill that will, according to CBO, reduce the deficit. Instead, they've dusted off their tired, old standbys - corporate tax cuts and privatization of Social Security and Medicare. Unfortunately, they are stuck in the past and are simply repeating the mistakes that put us here in the first place. We were elected to do the responsible thing, to do what's right. We were elected to solve problems and to make this country and this world a better place. Democrats say we cannot default on our debt, and that we will reduce that debt through PAYGO, bending the cost curve on health care, and freezing spending. I believe we need to look at all parts of federal spending including wasteful and unnecessary spending at the Defense Department, but it's clear we need to prioritize our spending. In fact, Democrats say we're going to cut capital gains taxes - something the Republicans have been touting for years - but Republicans are opposing that too, simply because President Obama is the one proposing it. M. Speaker, there's a time and place for politics. I get that. But, to paraphrase John McCain, sometimes you have to put country first. It's unfortunate that my Republican colleagues would rather play politics instead of acting responsibly to attack our country's problems. I urge a -yes- vote on the previous question and on the rule. With that, I yield back the balance of my time and move the previous question.
01.26.2010	Mr. Speaker, It has now been two weeks since a 7.0 earthquake struck Haiti on the afternoon of January 12th. Over these past 14 days, we have seen pictures of the devastation of Port-au-Prince and surrounding communities. Estimates of the number of dead continue to rise; and the injured in the capital alone is already in the tens of thousands, many needing sophisticated medical care. People live in the streets and open spaces, fearful of the daily aftershocks. The very basics of life - water, food and shelter - are absent or in short supply. We watch in anguish as we learn about the potential number of newly-orphaned children in a country that already had around 400,000 orphans. The Washington Post ran a story on Saturday about how 75% of the schools have been destroyed, and the deaths of so many teachers and students. Nearly every Haitian family in the affected areas suffered the loss of at least one loved one, and nearly every UN, international agency, and NGO operating in the area suffered devastating losses among their Haitian and international staff. And while our own U.S. embassy staff and aid agencies work around the clock to respond to this crisis, each and every one of them are also dealing with their own shock and grief over lost family members and Haitian and U.S. colleagues. In my congressional district, Britney Gengel, the daughter of Len and Cherylann Gengel from Rutland, Massachusetts, remains missing. She is among the approximately 200 Haitian and foreign nationals who were in the Hotel Montana when the earthquake struck. She was part of a student team from Florida's Lynn University in Haiti working with Food for the Poor. In the few days that she was in Haiti, she had already emailed her parents to tell them she felt that she had found her life's calling. Hundreds of search and rescue workers have been active day and night at the Hotel Montana, including U.S. teams from Fairfax, Virginia and Miami-Dade and Los Angeles Counties. One rescue worker, talking with Britney's father, spoke movingly about how this was one of the worst sites he had ever worked on, and if his daughter were trapped here, he wouldn't give up on finding her either. The compassion and empathy of the rescue workers and every member of our U.S. embassy team are palpable, and their commitment to all the victims' families is total. We see on our televisions and read in the papers and on-line of the generosity and resilience of the human spirit: People helping people, comforting one another, sacrificing for the well-being of another. We often forget how much the Haitian people are helping one another as we struggle to provide support and get aid to them. Governments, international agencies, NGOs, corporations and individuals have responded and mobilized as never before. On Friday evening, I was in my hometown of Worcester, Massachusetts at an event entitled, -Worcester Cares for Haiti,- to mobilize donations from our local community. I'm sure many Members of this House have been at similar events in their own districts. Aid is pouring into Haiti to reach the more than three million people directly affected by the earthquake. It is flying into Santo Domingo and Barahona airports in the Dominican Republic and being trucked overland in vast convoys. It's landing at the Port-au-Prince airport, which now receives over 100 flights day and night. And thanks to our Navy and Coast Guard, the destroyed Port-au-Prince docks are now 30 percent operational. I want to thank all the nations of the world that have responded so generously. I especially want to thank our hemispheric neighbors, many of whom annually suffer from natural disasters and still struggle to overcome centuries of poverty. They have been particularly generous - from Argentina, Brazil and Chile to Colombia, Cuba, Mexico and so many others. And a very special thank you to the government and people of the Dominican Republic. To my own government - Secretary Clinton, Secretary Gates, Administrator Raj Shah, Secretary Napolitano, and all the agencies, officers and staff here in Washington and on-the-ground in Haiti, who when faced with a Herculean task have more than risen to the occasion - I want to say how grateful I am for all that you have done, are doing, and will be doing in the days, weeks and months to come. I have seen first-hand your commitment, compassion, expertise and professionalism. I'm sure mistakes have been made, but no one wants the aid to arrive more quickly and get to those who need it, more than the U.S. personnel on the ground in Haiti. For myself, I have never been more proud of my government or more grateful for the people who serve in it.
01.14.2010	The Haiti Earthquake Task Force has set up a number to call to relay information concerning American Citizens. That number is 1-888-407-4747. Click here for a list of relief organizations accepting donations to aid Haitian earthquake victims. HOW PEOPLE CAN HELP For people who wish to lend in-kind or monetary donations, please refer to www.whitehouse.gov. The State Department helped set up a short code for those wishing to send immediate monetary assistance. To take advantage of this, people can text "HAITI" to "90999" and $10 will be given automatically to the Red Cross, charged to your cell phone bill. If constituents have a significant in-kind contribution to make - such as a plane, a cargo ship, a team of doctors, portable generators, or large-scale water purification equipment - please direct them to log onto the website of the Center for International Disaster Information at www.cidi.org . The Center for International Disaster Information is a partner organization of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) that can help put usable donations on the ground in Haiti. Prospective donors can register their donation on www.cidi.org and CIDI will respond with information about the international community's ability to absorb this offer. U.S. Citizen Inquiries There is a now abased e-mail address for use by the general public. Anyone seeking information about U.S. citizens in Haiti can e-mail the State Department at Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. As mentioned, please feel free to continue checking travel.state.gov at the following link: http://www.travel.state.gov/travel/cis_pa_tw/cis/cis_1134.html, for updated travel alert and situation information. The U.S. Embassy in Port Au Prince has set up a task force at the Embassy which is taking calls as conditions permit. The Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens in Haiti are urged to contact the Embassy via email (ACSPaP@state.gov) to request assistance. U.S. citizens in Haiti can call the Embassy's Consular Task Force at 509-2229-8942, 509-2229-8089, 509-2229-8322, or 509-2229-8672. The State Department has also created a task force to monitor the emergency. People in the U.S. or Canada with information or inquiries about U.S. citizens in Haiti may reach the Haiti Task Force at 888-407-4747; Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. Outside of the U.S. and Canada, call 202-501-4444. For further information and updates, please see the State Department's Consular Affairs website. We still encourage you and your constituents to reach out directly to the Department's Haiti Task Force at 1-888-407-4747; Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov. The Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov and ACSPaP@state.gov addresses are the only ones available for public use. In your inquiries, please try to have available the following information: constituent(s) full name; date of birth; citizenship; time, date, and place of last known location; any contact information, such as a cell phone number or hotel/church, etc. number, where the person could be reached; e-mail address (we understand the Embassy is able to receive e-mails from U.S. citizens in country at this time). Contributions/Donations If you receive calls from constituents about how they can make contributions and donations to disaster relief, the following web links can be provided: U.S. citizens who wish to contribute to the relief effort for Haiti after the earthquake, either online or by text message, can visit www.WhiteHouse.gov. Below you will find the links to the Center for International Disaster Information's (CIDI) Guidelines and FAQ, which will be helpful in answering questions from constituents around the country. That website also has the Guidelines available in French and Kreyol, if you should need them. http://www.cidi.org/guidelines/guide_ln.htm http://www.cidi.org/media/faq.htm Haitian Citizens in the U.S. Haitian citizens in the U.S. should call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, D.C., 202-332-4090, or the Haitian Consulate in New York City, 305-859-2003. Volunteer Opportunities Additionally, persons who wish to provide assistance or expertise in Haiti are asked to contact the Center for International Disaster Information. The Center, operated under a grant from the United States Agency for International Development's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, has established a dedicated page to coordinate Haiti support at: http://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/ . AMERICAN CITIZEN WELFARE/WHEREABOUTS/EVACUATIONS The U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince has activated a system that enables us to reach out to our U.S. citizen community in country. USCG C-130s continue to evacuate American Citizens.
01.11.2010	Federal, State, and Local leaders today hailed the decision by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to transfer $41.5 million in emergency funding from the Commodity Credit Corporation to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to support efforts to eradicate the invasive Asian Longhorned Beetle (ALB) from Massachusetts. USDA also provided emergency funding of $24.5 million to the program last year to jump start an aggressive eradication program. In addition, the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill included $13 million for beetle eradication. Rep. Jim McGovern coordinated the Massachusetts delegation's request for the funding awarded today. APHIS will use the $41.5 million in emergency funding for enhanced tree surveys, expanding chemical treatments, and infested tree removal in Massachusetts. -This is terrific news for Central Massachusetts,- Rep. McGovern said. -The Asian Longhorned Beetle has caused tremendous damage in our communities, and the federal government must continue to be a strong partner in this fight. I want to thank Secretary Vilsack for working with us on this important issue, and I will continue to make sure that all possible federal resources are utilized to get rid of this beetle once and for all.- -The Asian Longhorned Beetle has destroyed tens of thousands of trees throughout central Massachusetts and if it spreads, has the potential to devastate our nation's forests and timber industry,- Senator John Kerry said. -This substantial investment will allow us to replace trees, begin rebuilding depleted areas and eradicate the beetle from the area for good.- -The Asian Longhorned Beetle infestation has severely damaged the ecosystem of cities and towns throughout Central Massachusetts,- said Senator Paul G. Kirk, Jr. -I commend Secretary Vilsack for approving these additional emergency funds to complete the ALB eradication process and ease the unexpected heavy financial burden on our communities.- -I am grateful to Secretary Vilsack, as well as Congressman McGovern and other members of the delegation, for this much-needed funding,- said Governor Deval Patrick. -With these funds, we can continue our efforts to eradicate the Asian Longhorned Beetle in Worcester and the other affected towns, and to restore the natural beauty of these neighborhoods by planting new trees. We look forward to continuing our partnership with the USDA on this initiative and many others.- -The landscape of Greater Worcester has been greatly impacted by the battle against the Asian Longhorned Beetle,- said Lieutenant Governor Timothy Murray. -Governor Patrick and I are very grateful for the leadership and advocacy of our federal partners including Senator Kerry, Senator Kirk, and Congressman McGovern who have all actively supported the eradication of the infestation and efforts to replant the many trees we've lost.- -The damage already caused to the Central Massachusetts region by the Asian Longhorned Beetle is simply staggering,- said State Senator Harriette Chandler. -I thank Congressman McGovern for his hard work, and Secretary Vilsak and the USDA for demonstrating their commitment to fighting this pest aggressively for as long as it takes to stop its spread and eradicate it.- -Kudos to Congressman McGovern. Once again he has shown his brilliance in being able to secure funding for his Congressional district for a problem that is of upmost importance,- said State Rep. Jim O'Day. -This funding will go a long way in the battle towards both eradication of the ALB and reforestation of Worcester's urban forest. My hat also goes off to Secretary Vilsack and the USDA for recognizing the need for this funding to address the ALB's devastation in the Worcester and surrounding communities.- -Our collective goal of fully eradicating this invasive beetle from our midst is one step closer because of this funding,- said Worcester City Manager Michael V. O'Brien. -We are grateful for the ongoing advocacy for this funding by Congressman McGovern and the entire delegation.-
12.18.2009	
12.18.2009	Senators John Kerry and Paul Kirk, together with Congressman James McGovern today announced that the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010 approved by Congress this week contains direct federal assistance for the 3rd Congressional District of Massachusetts. Senator Kerry and Congressman McGovern were proud to work with Senator Kennedy in requesting these projects and are grateful to Senator Kirk for his help in securing the funding. -This is jobs and economic development with investments in everything from transportation to health care, social services and education,- said Senator Kerry. -I'm proud to fight each year to secure federal funding for these initiatives that make a real local impact.- -In our current economic crisis, worthy programs and facilities in the Commonwealth need all the support we can give them,- said Senator Paul G. Kirk, Jr. -I commend Senator Kerry and Congressman McGovern for their work in obtaining these federal funds for programs to help at-risk youths, keep our streets safer, and help our courageous veterans.- -I'm proud to have worked closely with Senators Kerry and Kirk to deliver these important federal resources. These projects will create jobs, improve health care and education, and further the quality of life in our communities,- said Congressman James McGovern. The Senate bill passed earlier today, and having passed the House of Representatives on Thursday, will now head to President Obama for his signature. The following projects in the 3rd Congressional District are slated to receive funding: Recipient: The College of the Holy Cross Location: Worcester Amount: $400,000 Project: The funding will be used for the College's At-Risk Youth Empowerment Initiative Recipient: Assumption College Location: Worcester Amount: $100,000 Project: The funding will be used for educational equipment and information technology Recipient: Bristol Community College Location: Fall River Amount: $100,000 Project: The funding will be used for job placement services for veterans Recipient: UMass Memorial Health Care Location: Worcester Amount: $500,000 Project: The funding will be used for health information technology Recipient: Massachusetts Manufacturing Extension Partnership Location: Worcester Amount: $250,000 Project: The funding will be used for the expansion of a workforce skills training program Recipient: Dean College Location: Franklin Amount: $150,000 Project: The funding will be used for the Embedded Study Model Project to integrate academic support services into curricula, which may include equipment and technology. Recipient: Family Health Centers Location: Worcester Amount: $250,000 Project: The funding will be used for facilities and equipment Recipient: Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences Location: Worcester Amount: $400,000 Project: The funding will be used for health professions training Recipient: Planning, design, and engineering for the Institute Park Renovation Project Location: Worcester Amount: $400,000 Project: The funding will be used for the park, which supports a number of major cultural, educational and musical events each year, and in 2007, the City of Worcester completed a community-endorsed Master Plan for improvements to this Park. Recipient: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Route 109/Main Street Location: Medway Amount: $400,000 Project: The funding will be used to reconstruct Route 109 which will facilitate traffic, reduce the crash rate, and improve the overall safety of the road. Recipient: Cherry Street Railroad Crossings Improvement Project Location: Ashland Amount: $600,000 Project: The funding will be used to improve the safety of the crossings, in addition to reducing the noise levels associated with the railroad traffic. Recipient: Gang Prevention Through Targeted Outreach Program, Boys and Girls Club of Worcester Location: Worcester Amount: $350,000 Project: The funding will help the The Boys & Girls Club of Worcester will provide the Gang Prevention Through Targeted Outreach Program (GPTTO) to at-risk-youth, ages 8 - 18, at all three of Clubhouse sites, all located in neighborhoods with a Community Disadvantage Index of 10 out of 10. Recipient: Out-of-School Youth Intervention Program, My Turn Inc., Location: Brockton MA (for their Fall River campus) Amount: $200,000 Project: This funding will allow the program to help young people reach a level of self-sufficiency that eliminates reliance on government assistance for basic goods and services. This funding request would go toward two ongoing programs in Fall River.
11.09.2009	Mr. Speaker, this is a remarkable, historic moment. Passage of health insurance reform is a -Franklin Roosevelt- moment, right up there with the creation of Social Security. We have debated this issue for almost 100 years, since Teddy Roosevelt ran as a Bull Moose. This year alone, House committees have spent nearly 100 hours in hearings on health reform; heard from 181 witnesses; spent 83 hours in Committee markups; and considered 239 amendments. The Rules Committee spent almost 12 hours hearing testimony last night. This has been a very thorough, thoughtful process. The time for talk has come to an end. Now is the time for action. The need for reform is clear: Since 2000, employer sponsored health insurance premiums for American families have more than doubled. Because of crushing health care costs, small businesses are losing their ability to compete in the global marketplace. If we do nothing, family premiums will increase an average of $1,800 every year, and the number of uninsured will reach 61 MILLION people by 2020. Not only that, but skyrocketing health care costs will bankrupt this country. By the time my kids retire, health care will take up 50% - half - of our entire economy. We simply cannot leave that kind of debt for future generations. My Republican friends see this differently. Their prescription is take two tax breaks and call me in the morning. For twelve years, Republicans had their chance to improve healthcare in America. And for twelve years, they let the number of uninsured skyrocket all while letting the insurance companies make money hand over fist. Those who vote against this bill are on the wrong side of history. With passage of this bill, we stand for the uninsured; for the underinsured; for those who are discriminated against by insurance companies because they had preexisting conditions or because of their gender. Mr. Speaker, this is a historic moment. I urge my colleagues to seize it. Vote yes on this rule, vote yes on this bill. Let's deliver real health insurance reform for the American people.
11.06.2009	Yesterday's shooting at Fort Hood is a terrible, terrible tragedy. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families, soldiers, civilians, and support staff on the base. Our brave men and women in uniform are among the finest America has to offer, and their safety and well being should be one of our highest priorities.
10.14.2009	October 6, 2009 - Congressman McGovern met with His Holiness, The Dalai Lama in Washington at an Executive Committee Meeting of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.
10.09.2009	
10.08.2009	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), U.S. Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) and U.S. Sen. Paul Kirk (D-MA) today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded $6 million to the City of Worcester for lead removal in homes. The City will be receiving $3 million from the Lead-Based Paint Hazard Control program and $3 million from the Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration grant program. The funding will be used as part of the City's neighborhood stabilization and revitalization program: http://www.buyworcesternow.com/preserving_neighborhoods.html. More than 245 units of housing have been de-leaded as a result of the City's successful Lead Removal Program since it began in 2007. -It is essential that our children grow up in safe, healthy homes,- Rep. McGovern said. -This federal funding will go a long way toward assisting Worcester's innovative neighborhood revitalization strategy. I'm very pleased with this grant award, and I commend HUD for recognizing the good work being done in Worcester. -This investment helps make our homes safer by removing the cancer risks of old lead paint,- Sen. Kerry said. -Families across the city need to know they are protected from these life-threatening carcinogens.- -These federal fund will help the City of Worcester improve the well-being of its citizens and neighborhoods,- Sen. Kirk said. -I'm pleased HUD has recognized the city for its impressive efforts to preserve and stabilize its community, and I look forward to the progress to come.- -We are extremely grateful to the Federal delegation for securing this funding in support of preserving our neighborhoods,- City Manager Michael V. O'Brien said. -This program has been extremely successful and is even more important now as we look to rebuild neighborhoods in the aftermath of the subprime mortgage crisis.- According to HUD, -Even though lead-based paint was banned for use in the home in 1978, HUD estimates that approximately 24 million homes still have significant lead-based paint hazards today. Lead-contaminated dust is the primary cause of lead exposure and can lead to a variety of health problems in young children, including reduced IQ, learning disabilities, developmental delays, reduced height, and impaired hearing. At higher levels, lead can damage a child's kidneys and central nervous system and cause anemia, coma, convulsions and even death.-
10.08.2009	M. Speaker. By direction of the Committee on Rules I call up House Resolution 799 and ask for its immediate consideration. For the purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman from North Carolina, Dr. Foxx. All time yielded during consideration of the rule is for debate only. I yield myself such time as I may consume. I also ask unanimous consent that all Members be given five legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks on House Resolution 799. M. Speaker. H. Res. 799 provides for consideration of the conference report to accompany H.R. 2997, Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010. The rule waives all points of order against the conference report on H.R. 2997 and against its consideration, and the rule provides that the previous question shall be considered as ordered without intervention of any motion except one hour of debate and one motion to recommit if applicable. M. Speaker, I rise in support of the conference report for the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations Conference Report. This is a good bill, one that went through the regular order. It is, in fact, the third appropriations conference report this body will consider this year. I want to commend Subcommittee Chair Rosa DeLauro and Ranking Member Jack Kingston, as well as the other subcommittee Members, for their efforts in completing this bill. M. Speaker, this bill is one that doesn't normally get a lot of attention but is, in reality, one of the most important bills we can pass. I'm wish the allocation for this bill isn't higher than it is because there is a great need for the programs that make up this bill. This conference report funds the following areas at the Department of Agriculture - public health programs, rural communities, agriculture research, animal health and marketing programs, and conservation. Most importantly, this bill funds domestic and international anti-hunger and nutrition programs - programs that literally put food in the mouths of hundreds of millions of hungry people here at home and around the world. M. Speaker, this bill is $2.7 billion more than last year and $325 million more than the President's request - a 13% increase over last year's bill. Following my opening statement, we'll hear from my Rules Committee colleague from North Carolina and I expect that she will talk about how this bill spends too much money and that this increase is simply unnecessary, especially during these difficult economic times. Well, M. Speaker, this increase is needed now more than ever. Just look at where the increases in this bill are targeted - to the areas of nutrition, international food assistance, and food and drug safety. Simply, these increases go to protect our food supply and to provide food for those who either cannot afford it or do not have access to it. It's unconscionable to me that anyone can complain about helping people in need during these tough economic times. Today there are over 36 million low-income individuals who rely on the SNAP program, formerly known as the Food Stamp Program. The sad fact is that this is a record number of people who are currently relying on this safety net program. This bill provides over $58 billion for the SNAP program, an increase of more than $4 billion from 2009. WIC is funded at $7.2 billion, an increase of almost $400 million. This increase will provide up to 9.6 million women, infants, and children help with a healthy pregnancy and healthy start in life. The Commodity Food Supplemental Program, a program that provides nutritious food to low-income women, infants, children and elderly citizens who all struggle with rising food costs, is funded at $171 million. That's $11 million more than 2009 and $9 million more than the President's request. Finally, the child nutrition programs - school meals and snacks - receive almost $17 billion, $1.9 billion above 2009 levels. Hunger is getting worse in America, and this bill provides funding that keeps the safety net intact. Look at one of the more affluent areas in this country, Fairfax County. According to a recent Washington Post article, Fairfax churches and nonprofit organizations report a 39 percent increase in food assistance in the fourth quarter of 2008 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Let me repeat that - a 39 percent increase. Quote - -Almost half of the respondents reported helping families that had never asked for aid before - many of them former middle-class residents now unemployed or facing foreclosure- - end quote. I ask unanimous consent to insert this article into the record at the end of my statement. M. Speaker, this is just one example of how hunger is creeping into areas of the country that aren't used to seeing hunger. Food banks, WIC clinics, and SNAP processers are the ones providing food for people who simply can't make ends meet. Yet my colleagues on the other side of the aisle say we can't afford to properly fund these programs - insinuating that we should turn our backs on these people in need. I, for one, make no apologies for these increases in food and nutrition programs. We have a moral obligation to step up to the plate, to help the most vulnerable during these times. Internationally, the need is just as great. This bill provides critical funding for the Food for Peace Program and McGovern-Dole Food for Education Program. Overall, there is $1.89 billion provided for international food aid programs. That's an increase of $564 million over 2009. The PL 480 Food for Peace Title II Grants program receives $1.69 billion, which is $464 million above 2009. And a program close to my heart, the McGovern-Dole Program, is more than doubled from the previous year. In 2010, this important program will receive $209.5 million, $10 million more than President Obama's request and $109.5 million more than 2009 levels. For too long, this country has underfunded international food and nutrition assistance. This bill is changing that course. We are putting more money up front for development - providing assistance before it becomes an emergency. This is appropriate and necessary, and I applaud Chairwoman DeLauro for working to right the misguided policies of the previous administration. I am also pleased that there is more than $33 million for eradication of the Asian Long-Horned Beetle, an increase of more than $13 million over last year. This funding will help USDA in their efforts to continue identifying and eradicating the infestation of this pest. While more funding is needed - and I will be asking USDA for additional emergency funding for this effort - the funding included in this bill is welcome and I appreciate its inclusion. Finally, M. Speaker, I want to address the tragic bombing of the United Nations' World Food Program offices in Islamabad, Pakistan. The World Food Program benefits from the international food aid programs that are funded in this bill. WFP is an excellent partner and is on the front lines of many of the efforts to combat hunger and starvation around the world. Josette Sheeran and everyone at WFP do an excellent job and I'm pleased to be able to work with them as they work to end hunger around the world. I want to convey my deepest condolences and sympathies to the family, friends and colleagues of the WFP staff who were killed yesterday in Pakistan. My thoughts and prayers are also with those who were wounded and injured in the bombing attack and we hope for their full recovery. The bombing underscores the often dangerous situations in which WFP and so many other humanitarian and relief workers around the globe find themselves. And I, for one, can only thank them for their important and too often unrecognized service to humanity. With that, I reserve the balance of my time.
09.24.2009	OVER ONE MILLION ATTEND -PAZ SIN FRONTERAS- CONCERT Mr. Speaker, on Sunday, an historic event took place in Havana, Cuba: An estimated 1.2 million people attended an all-star concert made up of many of the top Latin pop, rock and salsa stars from Latin America, Europe, Puerto Rico and Cuba. The concert, known as Paz Sin Fronteras, or Peace Without Borders, was the dream of Colombian singer, song-writer and multiple Latin Grammy winner Juanes and his two primary collaborators Miguel Bosé of Spain and Olga Tañon of Puerto Rico. The message of the Peace Without Border concerts is to circumvent politicians, and using the medium of music, speak directly to young people and encourage them to think in fresh ways - to change their way of thinking - and leave behind the old politics, the old hatreds, prejudices and national enmities that have locked too many people into patterns of conflict, violence, poverty and despair, dividing them from one another. It's an attempt to break down barriers and ask people to join in common purpose. Both the U.S. and the Cuban governments helped facilitate the concert, including providing Juanes and his company of 15 international and Cuban artists full control over message and staging. The Departments of State, Treasury and Commerce - and especially Secretary of State Clinton - are to be commended for providing in record time the various licenses and authorities required for U.S. musicians, technicians, musical and production equipment to travel and enter Cuba. This is the second Peace Without Borders concert organized by Juanes in what he hopes will be a series of concerts in the hemisphere in places where people, if not politicians, might be open to a message of change, especially young people who are more readily engaged by the language of rock-and-roll. The first such concert took place last year on the Peace Bridge on the border of Colombia and Venezuela when military tensions escalated between the two countries. I applaud Juanes and all the participating artists for their courage, vision and commitment to working together to communicate directly to the Cuban people through the language of music. More than just a rock concert, this massive cultural event in Havana was a moving and emotional testament, even to many of its critics, about the power of the human spirit to reach across barriers during times of tension and opportunity. The ripples and waves created by this concert are just beginning to be felt in Cuba, the United States and throughout the hemisphere. I very much look forward to supporting other Paz Sin Fronteras initiatives in the future. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back the balance of my time. Insert into the Congressional Record the following materials: • -In Castro Country, Giving a Concert for Peace,- by William Booth, Washington Post, 9/21/09 • -Juanes in Havana: 'This is the power of music,' by Lydia Martin and Jordan Levin, The Miami Herald, 9/20/09 • -Opening Borders: First Came the Pope, Next Came Juanes,- by Jeffrey Kofman, ABC News, 9/20/09 • -A day after Juanes show, emotions in Miami still mixed,- by Jordan Levin, The Miami Herald, 9/21/09
09.10.2009	M. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support of the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill, which the House will take up shortly. M. Speaker, H.R. 3326 is a good bill. It provides support for our military families, and it provides our troops with the funding and equipment they need to successfully perform their duties and carry out their assigned missions. But I do not support it without reservations. I believe this Congress has not yet come to grips with what our policy is in Afghanistan. We recently passed an emergency supplemental appropriations bill that provides billions of dollars for the war in Afghanistan - a measure I opposed. I believed then, as I do now, that it is a mistake to spend billions and billions of dollars more for a war that has no clearly defined mission. And my concern deepened when I recently read reports that indicated that General McChrystal believes we will have to expand our forces, and thereby expand our mission, in Afghanistan - meaning more money and more troops right now just to get the job started. I still have this sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach that we're getting sucked into something where the mission and goals are vague, and it's unclear how it will end. M. Speaker, I remain skeptical about our policy in Afghanistan. I think the Administration needs to provide Congress, the nation and our military families with more clarity on this issue - and if they don't, I believe Congress should demand it. Like all my colleagues, I have had many conversations with the men and women who serve in Iraq and Afghanistan - sometimes when they are about to deploy, sometimes when they've just come home, sometimes when they come to my district office, and often because we just run into one another at a coffee shop, diner, community center, or on the street. I believe we owe them a great deal for their service. We owe them the respect of looking them in the eye and telling them that we know exactly what we're doing when we vote for money and missions that will send them directly into harm's way, some place where they might not return safe and sound to their families and loved ones. M. Speaker, I'm not asking for a protest vote on this bill. On this day, I intend to support this bill. But I raise these concerns because I firmly believe they need and deserve more discussion and more debate. Congress has been too quiet - and that needs to change. I yield back the balance of my time.
09.10.2009	Senators John Kerry and Edward Kennedy, together with Congressmen Jim McGovern and Barney Frank today announced that Fall River will receive a total of $4,396,672 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for critical housing programs in the city. The federal funding comes as part of three national grant programs. The city will receive $3,020,812 as part of the Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program, $132,166 as part of the Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program, and $1,243,694 as part of the HOME program. "This investment is a lifeline for cities across Massachusetts that have been drowning under busted budgets and the housing crunch. It'll put people to work while allowing hundreds of low and moderate income families in Fall River to keep a roof over their heads,- said Senator Kerry. Senator Kennedy said, "This federal assistance is essential for Fall River and many other cities and towns across our Commonwealth that face extraordinary budget costs because of the current economic crisis. These grants will enable Fall River to create and retain important jobs while providing essential shelter and other services for families in need." -The economic downturn has hit Fall River particularly hard,- Rep. McGovern said. -I'm very pleased that these federal dollars will go toward improving housing, public services and economic development in Fall River.- "I am especially pleased that we are seeing these federal funds go to Fall River and New Bedford, which have suffered tough economic times through no fault of their own. It's especially important that they get this money at this time," said Congressman Frank. The CDBG program is a critical part of the Federal government's efforts to help more cities, urban areas, and states meet the needs of low- and moderate-income communities. The CDBG program provides funding for homeownership assistance, housing rehabilitation, public improvements, public services, and economic development projects. The ESG program provides annual grants to state, local and private entities to improve the quality and number of homeless shelters. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to communities to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities.
09.10.2009	Senators Ted Kennedy and John Kerry, joined by Reps. Jim McGovern and Barney Frank, today expressed disappointment in a preliminary letter by Coast Guard Commander Raymond Perry which asserts that the Weaver's Cove Energy proposal for an offshore LNG terminal fulfills navigation and safety requirements. -This is certainly a set-back, but we won't give up the battle against this project,- said Senator Kennedy. -We've just had the Taunton River designated as a Wild and Scenic River, and there are major concerns about sensitive stocks of fish in the area. It makes no sense to undermine the river and these essential fishing habitats this way.- -The security questions alone should stop this project in its tracks. Hundreds of thousands of people in Fall River and towns up and down the Taunton River have sounded the alarm bells,- said Senator Kerry. -This LNG terminal shouldn't go forward now or ever and we will continue to do everything in our power to make sure it doesn't.- -While we obviously disagree with this preliminary determination, there are still several hurdles that the ‘off-shore' proposal faces,- Rep. McGovern said. -From the new Wild and Scenic designation to the Commerce Department's concerns about the fishing industry to the safety issues raised by cryogenic piping, we will continue to do everything we can to stop this misguided idea.- -I am disappointed in the Coast Guard's preliminary finding,- said Congressman Frank. -I will continue to work with my colleagues to prevent the construction of this ill-advised project.- The Coast Guard recommendation, which according to the letter -has no enforcement status,- is nevertheless a necessary hurdle for the offshore LNG proposal. Over a period of several years, the Massachusetts legislators have strongly opposed proposals to build an LNG terminal in Fall River. Their joint effort has been instrumental in forcing a thorough environmental and safety review of the Fall River site. The proposal for a land-based terminal failed to get the necessary clearances, so Weaver's Cove Energy introduced a new proposal that would locate the LNG platform offshore and would transport natural gas to Fall River via pipe.
09.10.2009	U.S. Reps. Barney Frank (D-MA) and Jim McGovern (D-MA) today applauded the U.S. Department of Justice for awarding $2,117,220 to the City of Fall River under the COPS program. Fall River will use this funding, under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act -- the so-called -stimulus bill- -- to employ 10 police officers. The grants will provide 100 percent of the approved salary and benefits for entry level officer positions over a three year period. Police departments receiving the grants will then be required to retain the grant funded positions for a fourth year. The funding provides much needed support to state and local government budgets, and will help the nation's law enforcement agencies add and retain the manpower needed to fight crime more effectively through community policing. -This is great news for Fall River,- Rep. McGovern said. -This is exactly the kind of thing the stimulus bill was intended to fund. During these tough economic times, cities and towns are having a hard time maintaining services, including law enforcement. I'm pleased that the Department of Justice is assisting Fall River to maintain public safety.- -This is further evidence of the benefits of the economic recovery bill,- said Congressman Frank. -Earlier this year, I debated the merits of including COPS funding with my Republican colleagues, Senator Ensign and Congressman Pence. They did not believe it would have an impact on public safety layoffs. But I told them that New Bedford and Fall River were being forced to lay off policemen.- -I am extremely pleased that these grants will allow the cities of New Bedford and Fall River to rehire some of the officers who were laid off,- continued Congressman Frank. I want to thank the police unions who have worked so hard with me to make this happen. And I am particularly proud that Fall River and New Bedford received two of the three highest grant awards in Massachusetts.- -I am thrilled to hear about this award. As soon as the grant allows, we will put cops back on the street,- said Mayor Robert Correia of Fall River. -Thank you to our congressional delegation for their tireless support and advocacy on behalf of Fall River residents.- The funding announced today totals over $1 billion nationwide, and will make possible the hiring of 4,699 officers. The COPS grants program had been originally passed under the Clinton administration. Over a period of several years, the Bush administration gradually cut funding for the COPS program until it had been completely eliminated in FY 2007. Democrats reversed this trend when they became the majority in 2007, passing a new COPS bill which then stalled in the Senate. When police departments all over the country experienced extreme budgetary pressure this year, Congress responded by including targeting funding for police departments in the stimulus bill.
09.10.2009	Mr. Speaker. I rise to express my strong concern over US policy in Afghanistan. I worry that we are getting sucked deeper and deeper into a war with no end. Our mission continues to grow and grow, with no clear sense of where we are ultimately going. It has been eight long years. We have lost too many brave men and women. And we have spent billions and billions of dollars. The government of Afghanistan—led by President Hamid Karzai— is incompetent and corrupt. The Afghan President has formed alliances with war lords and drug lords who have no interest in a better Afghanistan. His military is not reliable and the police are a mess. And, by all accounts, forces close to Mr. Karzai stuffed ballot boxes in the most recent elections. Mr. Speaker, if this fraud had occurred in virtually any other country in the world, the condemnations from Congress and the Administration would be loud and forceful. After all the sacrifices our troops have made, after all the financial and development assistance, after all the training and military aid - is this the best we can expect? Don't we deserve better? Don't the Afghan people deserve better? At the very minimum, we must insist that any aid be contingent on a responsible Afghan government. Without that, then all our investments and good intentions can achieve very little that is sustainable. The United States has an incredible team assembled in Afghanistan. I had the pleasure of meeting many of them during a brief recent visit to the country. Both the military and State Department personnel are impressive. I only wish they were in place eight years ago. But, even a brilliant team can't make up for the inadequacies of the current Afghan government. Our troops are exceptional. I had the privilege of eating dinner with many of them from Massachusetts. I am in awe of their courage, commitment and patriotism. We owe them a policy that is worthy of their sacrifice. Everyone - from the President on down - agrees that a political solution is the only path for a successful, stable Afghanistan. Mr. Speaker, during consideration of the Department of Defense Authorization bill a few months ago, I -along with my colleague from North Carolina, Walter Jones—offered an amendment that would have simply required the Secretary of Defense to report to Congress by the end of the year what our exit strategy for Afghanistan was. We are not asking for a date certain, we are not advocating an immediate withdrawal, but we wanted an answer to this fundamental question—at what point has our military contribution to the political solution in Afghanistan come to an end so we can bring our troops home? I don't believe that the United States should enter into war without a clearly defined mission. And that means a mission with a beginning, a middle, a transition period and an end. Without that definition and clarity, we will continue to drift from year to year—from Administration to Administration. Mr. Speaker, we need an exit strategy for Afghanistan. I believe that sending thousands of more American troops into Afghanistan - as some in the Administration appear to be urging—is a mistake. An escalation of US military forces would further create the impression of an occupation and, in turn, provide a powerful rallying point for those we are trying to defeat. In last Sunday's New York Times, Nicholas Kristoff cites a statement by former US intelligence officials warning that -the more troops we put in, the greater the opposition.- I would like to ask unanimous consent that Mr. Kristoff's article appear in the Record at the conclusion of my statement. I am not suggesting we walk away from Afghanistan. We, along with the international community, should help with development aid, investments in education and school feeding, training of their police and military, and help with strengthening their civilian institutions. I also understand the threat from Al Qaeda. I still strongly believe that we should hold those responsible for the September 11th attacks accountable - and we should be committed to defeating them. I voted for the authorization to use military force after the terrorist attacks. But, Mr. Speaker, Al Qaeda is more of a problem in Pakistan than in Afghanistan. And for those who justify our expanded military presence in Afghanistan as a way to prevent Al Qaeda from ever coming back and establishing a safe haven, I would ask: are we going to send troops to Somalia or Sudan or other countries that have provided safe havens for Al Qaeda in the past? There are no easy answers in Afghanistan. It is a complicated place - from its people to its geography. I don't pretend to have all the answers. But I do feel deeply that an escalation of American military forces there would not solve the many problems and challenges of that country. I fear it would only further complicate matters - at a very high cost to our troops and our country.
08.26.2009	No one can ever fill his shoes. But we can, and must, follow in his footsteps. The work goes on, and the cause endures. The best tribute we could pay him is a renewed vigor in the fight to see his dreams realized. The world is going to miss Ted Kennedy. I already do. He was my inspiration, my mentor, my colleague and my friend. Slán go foill, Senator. Jim McGovern
08.04.2009	The following contains common myths associated with HR 3200, commonly known as the Health Care Reform bill. This information rebutts some of those myths and was researched and assembled by the Members and staff of 3 Congressional Committees; Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means, Education and Labor. Pg 22 of the HC Bill MANDATES the Govt will audit the books of ALL EMPLOYERS that self insure!! Page 22 of H.R. 3200 requests a study, not an audit, of the effects to which rating rules are likely to cause adverse selection in the large group market and employer self insurance market insurance market. This does not require an audit of ALL employers that self insure Pg 30 Sec 123 of HC bill - THERE WILL BE A GOVT COMMITTEE that decides what treatments/benes u get Nothing in the bill infringes upon you and your doctor's ability to make medical decisions. The National Health Benefits Advisory Council is not a -government committee- but is made up of providers, consumer representatives, employers, labor, health insurance issuers, independent experts and representatives of government agencies. They will make recommendations about minimum standards of care and covered benefits that insurance companies have to offer- ensuring that everyone has a health plan that provides them with adequate coverage. Pg 29 lines 4-16 in the HC bill - YOUR HEALTHCARE IS RATIONED!!! This is a misreading of the text. This section limits the amount of out-of-pocket costs you will face to $5,000 for an individual and $10,000 (indexed to CPI) for a family for a basic package of care. This ensures you have access to affordable care and won't go bankrupt paying for it. Pg 42 of HC Bill - The Health Choices Commissioner will choose UR HC Benefits 4 you. U have no choice! The Health Choices Commissioner is charged with ensuring insurance plans are meeting regulations and minimum standards as well as administering affordability credits and monitoring the exchange. Nothing in this section or in the larger bill permits the Health Choices Commissioner to choose your benefits for you PG 50 Section 152 in HC bill - HC will be provided 2 ALL non US citizens, illegal or otherwise This is blatantly false. This section prohibits insurance companies from discriminating against persons when issuing coverage, and has nothing to do with government subsidized coverage to illegal immigrants. The bill explicitly states that no Federal payments will be used for affordability credits for illegal immigrants. (P. 143, sec. 246). Pg 58HC Bill - Govt will have real-time access 2 individuals' finances & a National ID Healthcard will be issued! This section says nothing about a National ID health card, or accessing your personal financial information. This section promotes administrative simplification- for example being able to look up your insurance coverage and determine how much you will pay and which provider your insurance will accept, at the point of service. This saves money and gives you, the consumer, information about what you will owe at the front end, rather than being denied or getting a surprise bill from your insurance company weeks after your treatment. Pg 59 HC Bill lines 21-24 Govt will have direct access 2 ur banks accts 4 elect. funds transfer This section encourages the development of standards to encourage electronic payments between providers and insurance companies. Administrative simplification measures like these save billions of dollars. Nothing will give the government access to your bank account. PG 65 Sec 164 is a payoff subsidized plan 4 retirees and their families in Unions & community orgs (ACORN). This section provides a limited reimbursement for participating employment-based private plans for part of the cost of providing health benefits to retirees (age 55-64) and their families. People who have been forced into early retirement in this age group do not qualify for Medicare and this will help them stay on their employer provided, private insurance plan if their employer wants to participate. Participation is voluntary. This is for all early retirees, and no language targets the provision towards unions or acorn. Pg 72 Lines 8-14 Govt is creating an HC Exchange 2 bring priv HC plans under Govt control. The bill imposes new regulations on private health care plans that will force them to end unethical practices such as rescissions or denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions. The Exchange will improve the quality of coverage and increase the affordability of private insurers in the Exchange. PG 84 Sec 203 HC bill - Govt mandates ALL benefit pkgs 4 priv. HC plans in the Exchange Insurance companies in the Exchange will have to offer a basic benefit packages in every service area. This package will include basic care such as hospitalization, physician visits, medical equipment, mental health, preventative care, maternity and well baby care, and drugs - services that anyone would expect a real insurance policy to cover. Private insurers may offer a higher tier of coverage with more benefits that are not mandated by the government if they choose. PG 85 Line 7 HC Bill - Specs for of Benefit Levels for Plans = The Govt will ration ur Healthcare! No, this determines the minimum standards insurance companies must offer coverage for- it has nothing to do with rationing. Private plans can offer extra benefits like dental or vision coverage for adults, or other non-covered benefits that are not included in the basic level plan. PG 91 Lines 4-7 HC Bill - Govt mandates linguistic approp svcs. Example - Translation 4 illegal aliens The bill requires plans in the Exchange to offer culturally and linguistic appropriate services. The U.S. is a diverse country culturally and linguistically. Many legal residents and citizens of the U.S. speak other languages, and implying that everyone of a different culture in the U.S. is here illegally is intolerant and incorrect. The bill explicitly states that it will not subsidize coverage for illegal immigrants. (P. 143, sec. 246). Pg 95 HC Bill Lines 8-18 The Govt will use groups i.e., ACORN & Americorps 2 sign up indiv. for Govt HC plan The Health Choices Commissioner will conduct outreach and enrollment activities to educate Exchange-eligible individuals and businesses about enrollment in the new Exchange, which includes many private plans along with the public option. This includes a toll-free hotline, maintenance of a website, creation of outreach materials, and community locations for enrollment. PG 85 Line 7 HC Bill - Specs of Ben Levels 4 Plans. #AARP members - U Health care WILL b rationed This section has nothing to do with seniors or Medicare. It describes the minimum benefits insurance plans must offer under the Exchange. -PG 102 Lines 12-18 HC Bill - Medicaid Eligible Indiv. will be automat.enrolled in Medicaid. No choice Current law allows individuals to be auto-enrolled in Medicaid if they show up for health services and are eligible, so this is not a radical change. Only individuals that fall under 133% of the poverty level who have not had health insurance for six months will be auto-enrolled. pg 124 lines 24-25 HC No company can sue GOVT on price fixing. No "judicial review" against Govt Monop There is no judical or administrative review for the payment rates set for the public option. pg 127 Lines 1-16 HC Bill - Doctors/ #AMA - The Govt will tell YOU what u can make. This section outlines payment policies for physicians participating in the public option only. No physician has to take the public option. Pg 145 Line 15-17 An Employer MUST auto enroll employees into pub opt plan. NO CHOICE No. You get to choose your health insurance from the choices your employer offers you. If you fail to do so, your employer will auto-enroll you in the lowest premium health plan (for employees) unless or until you opt into a different plan. You could not be auto-enrolled into the public option in the vast majority of cases because the public option is not even available outside the Exchange (only to individuals and small businesses). The bill specifically mandates that employers provide employees with info on how to opt out of the auto-enrollment coverage. Pg 126 Lines 22-25 Employers MUST pay 4 HC 4 part time employees AND their families.(this will insure bankruptcies of many small businesses) Employers will only pay a proportion of what they must pay for full-time employees. There is also a tax credit equal to 50% of the amount paid by a small employer for employee health coverage available to help with these costs and other protections to ensure that new requirements don't cause undue hardship for small businesses. Pg 149 Lines 16-24 ANY Employer w payroll 400k & above who does not prov. pub opt. pays 8% tax on all payroll (this will insure more bankruptcies of many small businesses) All businesses, except some small businesses that are exempted, must contribute to their employees' health insurance. Most employers that are required to provide coverage under this bill already provide coverage—so little will change for them under this bill. They will continue to offer the coverage that they do today, and will not pay a tax. Some employers may choose to do so through the Exchange, but no employer nor employees will be forced to choose any option. Employers that don't contribute to employees' health care will make a contribution to the Exchange, so their employees can access coverage there. pg 150 Lines 9-13 Biz w payroll btw 251k & 400k who doesn't prov. pub. opt pays 2-6% tax on all payroll (this will insure even more bankruptcies of many small businesses) All businesses, except certain small businesses that are exempted, must contribute to their employees' health insurance. Small businesses typically pay more for the same insurance that a large employer might offer. Small businesses will benefit from this legislation, because it will help lower their administrative costs and insurance rating, and increase options available to them. The House legislation helps level the playing field between large and small businesses that want to offer health insurance. Pg 167 Lines 18-23 ANY individual who doesn't have acceptable HC according 2 Govt will be taxed 2.5% of inc (this insures the government can collect extra taxes from you anytime they want) No, they can only collect the tax if you don't have insurance and can afford to purchase it. Acceptable coverage includes grandfathered individual and employer coverage (ie what you have now providing your insurance company complies with new laws), certain government coverage (e.g., Medicare, Medicaid, certain coverage provided to veterans, military employees, retirees, and their families), and coverage obtained pursuant to the Exchange or an employer offer of coverage. Pg 170 Lines 1-3 HC Bill Any NONRESIDENT Alien is exempt from indiv. taxes. (Americans will pay) (this will attract more millions to America..... legally and illegally.... it will kill our economic engine....DEAD!) Nonresident aliens and illegal aliens are not the same thing. A nonresident alien is a non-citizen in the country legally (for example on a visa) who has not resided in the country long enough to be considered a resident. This provision is consistent with current law governing tax treatment of non resident aliens. Pg 195 HC Bill -officers & employees of HC Admin (GOVT) will have access 2 ALL Americans finan/pers recs The Health Choices Commissioner can receive taxpayer return information from the Internal Revenue Service in order to assist the Exchange in determining subsidy eligibility. This is the only allowable use for this information. PG 203 Line 14-15 HC - "The tax imposed under this section shall not be treated as tax" Yes, it says that This is a technical wording to ensure appropriate function of the tax under the tax code. Pg 239 Line 14-24 HC Bill Govt will reduce physician svcs 4 Medicaid. Seniors, low income, poor affected Completely wrong. This section adjusts the way the sustainable growth rate (SGR) formula is calculated, helping to prevent massive cuts for physicians. All physicians and AMA are in strong support of this section. Also it is for Medicare, not Medicaid. Pg 241 Line 6-8 HC Bill - Doctors, doesn't matter what specialty u have, you'll all be paid the same Again, this still is part of the SGR adjustment- which applies to all specialties. Providers and AMA very strong supporters of this. PG 253 Line 10-18 Govt sets value of Dr's time, prof judg, etc. Literally value of humans. This section directs the Secretary to regularly review fee schedule rates for physician services paid for by Medicare. It allows the secretary to incorporate all the work that a doctor does outside of the procedure when evaluating fee schedules: such as time, mental effort and professional judgment, technical skill and physical effort, and stress due to risk, and may include validation of the pre, post, and intra-service components of work. This doesn't have anything to do with the value of human lives. PG 265 Sec 1131 Govt mandates & controls productivity for private HC industries (this will kill free enterprise and drive many out of business.... less resources yet available for the boomers) This is a complete misreading of what this section is. This section updates the market basket payment for hospital outpatient services. Just because the word productivity is in there doesn't mean it is mandating productivity of industry - it just holds providers accountable to the same level of productivity as the whole economy, putting them on a level playing field. PG 268 Sec 1141 Fed Govt regulates rental & purchase of power driven wheelchairs No, this changes the way Medicare pays for power drive wheelchairs (13 month payments vs. one lump sum). It is essentially rent-to-own for power wheelchairs, and is one of the ways that Medicare already pays for wheelchairs. PG 272 SEC. 1145. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN CANCER HOSPITALS - Cancer patients - welcome to rationing! This is the opposite of rationing. This section allows Medicare to pay cancer hospitals more if they are incurring higher costs. Page 280 Sec 1151 The Govt will penalize hospitals 4 what Govt deems preventable readmissions. Preventable readmissions are never desirable. Hospitals are dangerous places, and the more time spent in one, the greater risk of infection or harm to the patient. Right now, hospitals are paid for quantity of care, so the more you are readmitted, the more they get paid. This provision will help incentivize preventative measures and post-treatment coordination of care to keep you healthier. Pg 298 Lines 9-11 Drs, treat a patient during initial admiss that results in a readmiss-Govt will penalize u. Preventable readmissions are never desirable. Hospitals are dangerous places, and the more time spent in one, the greater risk of infection or harm to the patient. Right now, hospitals and doctors are paid for quantity of care, so the more you are readmitted, the more they get paid. This will help incentivize preventative measures and post treatment coordination of care to keep you healthier. Pg 317 L 13-20 OMG!! PROHIBITION on ownership/investment. Govt tells Drs. what/how much they can own. This prohibits expansion of physician-owned hospitals because they often drive up costs, duplicate health services, drain resources from community hospitals, and provide perverse incentives for doctors to self-refer patients to hospitals they have a stake in to perform procedures. For example, if a doctor self-refers you for a heart operation, he makes money on the procedure and the hospital he owns makes money too. Pg 317-318 lines 21-25,1-3 PROHIBITION on expansion- Govt is mandating hospitals cannot expand Same as above. pg 321 2-13 Hospitals have oppt to apply for exception BUT community input required. Can u say ACORN?!! Physician-owned hospitals can apply for an exception to expand- and input of the community they serve is required to determine how valuable the hospital is to the patients they serve. Why does community automatically mean acorn? Pg335 L 16-25 Pg 336-339 - Govt mandates estab. of outcome based measures. HC the way they want. Rationing This section creates an incentive system to increase payments to high quality Medicare Advantage plans and plans that demonstrate improvement and better outcomes such as reduced readmissions, and better outcomes of its enrollees. This is about better quality care, not rationed care. A plan that cuts back on care and produces worse outcomes would not receive any extra payment. Pg 341 Lines 3-9 Govt has authority 2 disqual Medicare Adv Plans, HMOs, etc. Forcing peeps in2 Govt plan This only says it can disqualify participating plans from Medicare Advantage. This would not result in seniors being forced into the public option. They would remain on Medicare (which is, by the way, a government plan). Pg 354 Sec 1177 - Govt will RESTRICT enrollment of Special needs ppl! WTF. My sis has down syndrome!! This ensures that chronic condition special needs plans (SNPs) enroll beneficiaries only during their eligibility periods and extends the SNP program through 2012, and extends certain fully integrated dual eligible SNPs through 2015. Pg 379 Sec 1191 Govt creates more bureaucracy - Telehealth Advisory Cmtte. Can u say HC by phone? 84 new govt agencies! Telehealth is a critical service for rural populations and the disabled who may have difficulty traveling to health centers and hospitals. A committee at HHS does not constitute a new agency. This section expands Medicare's telehealth benefit to beneficiaries who are receiving care at freestanding dialysis centers (ie very sick patients who have difficulty traveling). It Also establishes a Telehealth Advisory Committee to provide HHS with additional expertise on the telehealth program. PG 425 Lines 4-12 Govt mandates Advance Care Planning Consult. Think Senior Citizens end of life There is no mandate for this sort of counseling. The only mandate is that Medicare must pay for the consultation between patients and practitioners to discuss plans for end-of-life care. These are important individual decisions that take time and consideration, and AARP supports inclusion of this planning provision. Pg 425 Lines 17-19 Govt will instruct & consult regarding living wills, durable powers of atty. Mandatory! Not mandatory! These are consultations between you and your provider, not the government. PG 425 Lines 22-25, 426 Lines 1-3 Govt provides apprvd list of end of life resources, guiding u in death CMS will provide planning resources to discuss with your doctor about how you would like to be treated in your final days. PG 427 Lines 15-24 Govt mandates program 4 orders 4 end of life. The Govt has a say in how ur life ends You decide how your life ends- that is the whole point of an advance directive. Pg 429 Lines 1-9 An "adv. care planning consult" will b used frequently as patients health deteriorates Those lines don't say that. PG 429 Lines 10-12 "adv. care consultation" may incl an ORDER 4 end of life plans. AN ORDER from GOV No, an order from you for your doctor Pg 429 Lines 13-25 - The govt will specify which Doctors can write an end of life order. The bill specifies which categories of licensed health care professionals can write them but not which specific doctor - you can still choose your doctor. PG 430 Lines 11-15 The Govt will decide what level of treatment u will have at end of life No, you decide with your doctor Pg 469 - Community Based Home Medical Services= Non profit orgs. Hello, ACORN Medical Svcs here!!? This section is the Medical home pilot program. This in no way refers to acorn. Page 472 Lines 14-17 PAYMENT TO COMMUNITY-BASED ORG. 1 monthly payment 2 a community-based org. Like ACORN? The community based medical home, is targeted at a broader population of Medicare beneficiaries with chronic diseases and allows for State-based or non-profit entities to provide care-management supervised by a beneficiary designated primary care provider. A provision inclusive of all non-profit entities in no way targets ACORN PG 489 Sec 1308 The Govt will cover Marriage & Family therapy. Which means they will insert Govt in 2 ur marriage Medicare will now cover state licensed marriage and family therapists. You are not forced to receive these services. Pg 494-498 Govt will cover Mental Health Svcs including defining, creating, rationing those svcs Medicare will now cover mental health counselors. It will not ration these services.
08.04.2009	Dear Friend, As you know, the leadership in the House of Representatives recently introduced a modified version of the health insurance reform bill. There have been several important modifications to the legislation. For example, the modified bill begins to close the so-called Medicare prescription drug benefit -donut hole- immediately. I've included several links here that I hope you will find helpful, including a link to the full text of the modified bill: Health Insurance Reform - Side By Side Comparison Top 10 Changes to the Revised Health Insurance Reform Bill Top 14 Provisions that take Effect Immediately in the Revised Health Insurance Reform Bill Text of H.R. 3962 - Affordable Health Care for America Act It's important to note that doing nothing is not -free.- Failure to reform our broken system will result in more people losing their insurance, more businesses being forced to drop coverage, more bankruptcies caused by health care crises, higher premiums, and a crushing federal debt. In other words, failure is not a viable option. Thank you for your interest in this critical issue. I look forward to hearing your thoughts and concerns as this process moves forward. Sincerely, Jim McGovern
07.22.2009	Click image to play video M. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rule and in support of the underlying statutory PAYGO legislation. As a member of the Budget Committee, I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this bill, and I want to thank our incredible chairman, John Spratt, for all of his hard work. Some of my colleagues may be asking themselves, -Why the heck is a liberal Democrat from Massachusetts speaking in support of PAYGO?- It's true, M. Speaker, that I have never been mistaken for a Blue Dog. I support this legislation because I despise this debt just as strongly as any member of this House. I support this legislation because I have two young children, and I don't want to saddle them with a bankrupt nation. And I support this legislation precisely BECAUSE it helps support the programs I care most deeply about. Every single dollar that we spend on interest on the debt is a dollar that we can't spend on health care. It's a dollar we can't spend on education, or environmental protection, or transportation projects, or tax breaks for middle class Americans. It's a dollar we can't spend on supporting our service men and women, or ending hunger. In short, every dollar we spend on this debt is a dollar that we can't invest in the American people. That's why we need this bill. I am also pleased that the bill before us today protects the most vulnerable Americans. The bill protects Social Security, veterans programs, food stamps and child nutrition programs, and other essential services. Now, we will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other side today about how awful the deficit is, and they're right. But here's the question: Where were you for the last eight years? Why did you allow PAYGO to expire when you were in the majority? Where were you when the Bush Administration inherited a surplus and proceeded to squander it on tax cuts for the wealthy few? If someone wants to argue that bigger tax breaks for millionaires is good economic policy, that's fine. But under this bill, they will be forced to acknowledge the costs of those tax cuts and show how they would pay for them. I don't think that's too much to ask. The bill will also force us - at long last - to take a good long look at wasteful subsidies and special interest tax loopholes M. Speaker, all of us - Democrats and Republicans - like to talk a good game about deficit reduction. But this is where the rubber meets the road. It's time to put our votes where our rhetoric is. It's time to pass statutory PAYGO. I urge my colleagues to support this good bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
07.22.2009	Click image to play video I thank the gentleman from Georgia for yielding me the time. Let me begin by thanking Majority Leader Hoyer and Chairman Peterson, and their staff, for quickly scheduling this bipartisan resolution for consideration today. This resolution honors the USDA's Food and Nutrition Service for 40 years of fighting hunger in the United States. There are more than 36 million food insecure - or hungry - people living in America today. The Food and Nutrition Service, or FNS, is the lifeline for the hungry in our country. The mission of FNS is to provide children and needy families better access to food and a more healthful diet through its food assistance programs and comprehensive nutrition education efforts. FNS does this by administering the Food Stamp - now called SNAP - program and child nutrition programs that include the school and summer meal programs. Without these programs and without the dedicated staff at FNS, millions of people in this country would be facing starvation and malnutrition. Their work and dedication should be commended and I'm pleased to be the lead sponsor of this resolution honoring the 40th Anniversary of the Food and Service Nutrition. I'm also pleased that my good friend and colleague, the gentlelady from Missouri Mrs. Emerson, is a cosponsor of this resolution. Unfortunately, my good friend cannot be here for this debate but she is a strong supporter of FNS and I ask Unanimous Consent to insert her statement into the record following my remarks. Over the past two years, we've seen a major expansion in our nation's anti-hunger programs. SNAP has been expanded twice - first, in the Farm Bill which expanded both the eligibility and the purchasing power of the program and second, in the Recovery Act, where the SNAP program benefits were accelerated to stimulate the economy and help families better afford food during this economic downturn. This year, we expect to see the reauthorization of the Child Nutrition Programs - WIC, the school breakfast, lunch, childcare, afterschool and summer meal programs. And FNS is in the forefront of these programs. M. Speaker, I'm pleased with the work FNS has done for the past 40 years. But this is also an opportunity to look to the future. I'm encouraged by the new administration and the leadership of Secretary Vilsack and his team at USDA. They are exploring ways to fight hunger and I'm looking forward to developing a strong working relationship with Secretary Vilsack. And while I'm pleased that USDA and FNS have worked so hard at responsibly implementing the anti-hunger programs authorized in the Farm Bill and in the Recovery Act, I am concerned that there hasn't been more done on President Obama's pledge to end childhood hunger by 2015. I encourage the Secretary to use this 40th anniversary recognition to rededicate USDA not only to ending child hunger in the United States but to start working with Members of Congress and other stakeholders on ways to improve the federal anti-hunger programs. I believe the Secretary should convene a Cabinet-level working group consisting not only of members of the Administration but also Congressional leaders - in order to to brainstorm on ways the Administration and Congress can work together to combat hunger in this country. We need to show that the goal of ending child hunger by 2015 is something this Administration is committed to achieving. I also encourage USDA and FNS to look into using their regulatory authority to make it easier for eligible families and individuals to sign up or be recertified for SNAP and other federal anti-hunger programs. In Massachusetts, we are seeing backlogs of new applications that last upwards of several weeks between submission of the application and approval or denial of that application. The issue is the increasing number of people who are becoming eligible for SNAP at the same time as current SNAP participants need to be recertified in order to continue participating in the program. The result is a backlog of cases for state administrators, causing lengthy delays that result in denial of food to hungry people. Finally, I strongly encourage the White House to convene a conference on Food and Nutrition in order to bring together our nation's leaders and stakeholders on hunger and nutrition. We need to put into place a strategy to end all hunger in this country and we need to do so while improving the availability of nutritious food. That will take presidential leadership, and I hope President Obama will convene this conference soon. M. Speaker, I congratulate FNS on 40 years of great work. Once again, I thank Chairman Peterson for his willingness to move this resolution through the process quickly and I yield back the balance of my time.
07.17.2009	U.S. Reps Jim McGovern (D-MA), Ed Markey (D-MA) and Niki Tsongas today commended the U.S. Department of Transportation for providing $750,000 in federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) funding for the Metrowest Regional Transit Authority. The Authority covers the communities of Hopkinton, Holliston, Wayland, Natick, Framingham, Sherborn, Ashland, Marlborough, Southborough,Weston and Sudbury. This stimulus funding will be used by the Authority to purchase one 25-foot replacement bus, three sedans for Americans with Disabilities Act Service, ADA Paratransit Operating Assistance, ADP Hardware and Software (mobile data terminals inside the vehicles with GPS capabilities and hands-free communications). -This is terrific use of federal stimulus funding,- Rep. McGovern said. -Safe, reliable public transportation is essential for economic development. It's also good for the environment. I commend the Metrowest Regional Transit Authority for all of their good work.- -These funds will ensure that the MetroWest Regional Transit Authority will be able to continue providing critical access to public transportation for all MetroWest residents, all while contributing to a cleaner environment,- said Rep Markey. -The MWRTA has also initiated creative programs such as GPS supported route updates, so that consumers can track their bus schedules in real-time. I commend the MWRTA for such smart and efficient practices and their contribution to our community.- -Without public transportation, it can be nearly impossible for some residents to get to and from work, to doctor's appointments, and around their communities,- Rep. Tsongas said. -These recovery funds will enhance our public transportation infrastructure and I commend the MWRTA for putting these funds to good use.-
07.17.2009	Conference: Mitigating the Nutritional Impacts of the Global Food Price Crisis Day Three: Session 7- Panel : Reorientation of U.S. Policy in Food and Nutrition Kaiser Family Foundation, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) of the National Academies 1330 -G- Street NW - Washington, DC Barbara Jordan Conference Center 9:00 AM - 12:00 Noon Thursday, July 16, 2009 ROADMAP TO END GLOBAL HUNGER Thank you, Jackie, for your kind introduction and for moderating this panel. I also want to thank the Kaiser Family Foundation, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies and the Global Health Program of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for putting together this very important 3-day conference on the central role of nutrition in addressing hunger and promoting food security. I am glad to be here. We're living in interesting and challenging times, to say the least. There's a lot going on. But the issue of ending hunger must take on a renewed sense of importance and urgency. Sadly, we're told by the United Nations that the number of hungry people in the world is over one billion. It's hard for a lot of us to comprehend what that actually means. It's a statistic so big and so huge that I fear some may lose the human ability to feel it - or some may be overwhelmed and choose to ignore the crisis. The fact is this: there are some issues that cannot be solved in my lifetime - but ending hunger isn't one of them. This is doable - if we muster the political will. I have seen the face of hunger all over the world. I have met children with rusty-colored hair and cloudy eyes because they didn't have the basic nutrients for a healthy life. It is tragic; it is sad; it is frustrating; it breaks your heart. It doesn't have to be. So - with that preface - let me again thank all of you for coming and for being part of this effort. This is about changing the world for the better - and I have a new sense of hope as we move ahead. I've been asked this morning to talk about the -Roadmap to End Global Hunger.- So, I want to walk through how an idea was born; how it turned into the report entitled, -The Roadmap to End Global Hunger;- and how the recommendations of that report have been translated into legislation that was introduced by Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson and me. Last May, the GAO came out with a report describing why donor nations, including the United States, were failing in their efforts to help Sub-Saharan African nations' meet the first Millennium Development Goal of cutting hunger in half by 2015. Jo Ann Emerson and I asked the authors of the report, Tom Melito and Phil Thomas, to come brief the co-chairs of the House Hunger Caucus about the report and its findings. One of the central issues that caught our attention was the seeming lack of coordination and the lack of any clear strategy on how the U.S. was really going to make a difference, make an effective contribution, to reducing the incidence of hunger and malnutrition in Sub-Saharan Africa, let alone working with those nations on how to create longer-term food security. For those of us in the House Hunger Caucus, this was the conversation where the light bulb turns on above your head. Jo Ann and I started talking about the need for a specially-appointed coordinator or office - the short-hand was a -Hunger Czar- - to oversee a comprehensive, government-wide strategy to address global hunger and food security. I have seen personally, both here in Washington and in the field when I travel to Africa and Latin America, how un-coordinated our food security programs often are on the ground. I note this without trying to point fingers or lay blame at anyone's doorstep. I think one thing that the global food crisis of 2008 put into sharp relief is how many programs we have on food aid, nutrition and food security and how they are spread over a variety of federal departments, agencies and jurisdictions. The same problem exists on Capitol Hill, with global food security programs under the jurisdiction of the Agriculture Committee, Foreign Affairs, Ways and Means and Financial Services, to name just the principal committees. Congresswoman Emerson and I decided to make a crusade about the need for a comprehensive government-wide strategy and a Coordinator on global hunger and food security. On November 7th, the day after he was elected to be our next president, we sent a bipartisan letter to Barack Obama from 116 Members of Congress, calling for a comprehensive government-wide strategy and the appointment of a White House Coordinator of such a strategy. I also had the privilege of meeting with Secretary of State Clinton in December, and with members of the Obama Transition Teams for State, USAID and USDA, to talk about the importance of a comprehensive, government-wide strategy that would maximize our efforts to reduce global hunger, and promote nutrition and long-term food security. And, I have to admit, I have been hounding White House and other U.S. officials on this priority ever since. Around the same time, beginning in the spring of 2008, a diverse group of NGOs had begun talking about trying to draft a blueprint for the next Administration on how U.S. programs and policies could more effectively and successfully address global hunger, nutrition and food security. The NGOs had their own -jurisdictional- problems, with some focusing mainly on emergency and humanitarian relief operations, others engaged on agricultural development, others involved with helping women and children, others emphasizing health and hygiene interventions, or research and development, or market development, and the list of their various issue, field and regional expertise goes on and on. Out of what might have seemed too impossibly large a group to ever produce a unified report, over months and months of discussion, this broad-based coalition found consensus. They educated one another about the importance of their own programs and approaches, and they listened and learned from one another about the accomplishments and contributions of other programs. They hammered out exactly what it would take for U.S. programs to become more credible, more integrated, more comprehensive, more strategic - and projected how much that might cost over five years. And in February of this year they released their findings and recommendations, The Roadmap to End Global Hunger. I know Hillary is fond of saying that -it takes a village- - but I like to say, -It takes a plan, one plan.- The Roadmap is noteworthy for being simple, straightforward and brief. It recommends that U.S. government actions to alleviate global hunger and promote food security be: • Comprehensive - meaning government-wide and integrating all programs; • Balanced and Flexible - meaning they must carefully balance and meet: emergency needs, longer-term investments in agriculture, and safety nets for the most vulnerable, especially during this global food and financial crisis; • Sustainable - meaning they need to increase the capacity of people and governments to ultimately feed and care for themselves, reduce the impact of hunger-related shocks (whether those are natural or man-made) - and that they be environmentally sustainable and responsive to the new challenges of climate change. • Accountable - meaning the comprehensive strategy and individual programs need clear targets, benchmarks and indicators of success and that monitoring and evaluation systems to measure and improve programs need to be developed and implemented; and • Multilateral - meaning not only do we contribute our fair share to the multilateral efforts to address global hunger, nutrition and food security but that we make sure our own strategy strengthens the multilateral effort and that we provide international leadership. How to accomplish this was laid out in four basic recommendations: 1) Create a White House Office on Global Hunger and Appoint a Global Hunger Coordinator to Lead the Efforts of This Office - ? Concretely, the purpose of the Office and the Coordinator is to create a permanent entity to pull all the agencies together and design and carry out a comprehensive government-wide strategy - and equally important, have someone with the backing of the President who can hold everyone's feet to the fire, be accountable that assignments are carried out, and determine what is and isn't working, what can be improved and what needs to be eliminated - without regard to turf, territory, budget or other parochial agency interests. 2) Resurrect the Congressional Select Committee on Hunger - ? This would allow one central Committee - and the Roadmap proposes it be bicameral - where the issues of hunger, nutrition and food security are its sole focus 100% of the time. 3) Ensure that the Development and Implementation of a Comprehensive Strategy to Alleviate World Hunger Include - ? Emergency response and management; ? Safety nets, social protection and disaster risk reduction; ? Nutrition, especially programs for mothers and children, emphasizing comprehensive nutrition before the age of 2, but also incorporating nutrition across the board in all our food security programs; and ? Market-based agriculture and infrastructure development. In all of these areas, the Roadmap proposes a special emphasis on and sensitivity to the centrality of women in securing sustainable food security, increased agricultural development and productivity, and the reduction of malnutrition, under-nutrition and hunger. 4) And finally, the Roadmap provides specific recommendations and funding targets across a number of accounts so that we can measure whether the Administration and its agencies are -on track- to meet these critical global requirements. Turning the Roadmap's recommendations into legislation proved to be much harder than initially thought. In fact, there were days when I was sure House Legislative Counsel and my Legislative Director were either going to jump out of a window or throw each other out of a window. Finally, however, Congresswoman Emerson and I introduced H.R. 2817, the Roadmap to End Global Hunger and Promote Food Security Act of 2009, on June 11th. The only real difference between the report and the legislation is that the bill can only reference but not put into statutory language the specific funding levels recommended in the Roadmap report. The reason for this is simple: if we did so, it could limit the Administration from exceeding these recommended levels. So the legislation references the total increased investment of $50.36 billion called for over five years, FY 2010 through FY 2014, for agricultural development, nutrition (including maternal and child programs and for other vulnerable populations), school feeding programs, productive safety net programs, emergency response, research and development, and technical assistance programs. And quite frankly, in one area, the President has already exceeded our expectations. Under the Roadmap, the first increase in Agricultural Development funding for FY 2010 was targeted at $750 million - President Obama asked for $1 billion. That is such an excellent and welcome step, and I commend the President for taking it. Let me conclude with a few remarks about the impact of this effort and where we go from here. As most of you already know, and as some of our other panelists will make clear, President Obama has designated Secretary of State Clinton to coordinate a government-wide approach to create, design and implement a comprehensive U.S. strategy on global hunger, nutrition, agriculture development and food security. It's well underway, and already beginning to be reflected in the President's FY 2010 budget, and the President's announcements both at the G-20 meeting in London and the recent G-8 Summit in Italy. The Roadmap recommendations and the NGOs that make up the Roadmap Coalition have played a critical role in supporting the U.S. coordinated effort, and providing the research and insights they had put together over the past year that led to the recommendations they advocate. There are a number of organizations and voices all pushing in the same direction for similar priorities, some of whom, like my friends Catherine Bertini and Dan Glickman, are on today's panel, and others, like the Partnership to End Hunger and Poverty in Africa, are important contributors to the Roadmap. Dan and Catherine - please know that I haven't talked about your report because you're going to do so - but the Chicago Council has provided several key recommendations on how to frame agriculture and rural infrastructure initiatives. I recognize that the majority of our resources will be invested in the areas of greatest need, Africa and South Asia. But I also believe we should not neglect those regions where nations are on the verge of breakthroughs. For example, both Guatemala and Brazil are in the midst of carrying out Zero Hunger campaigns, with special emphasis on ending child hunger. With their leadership, there is a hemisphere-wide initiative to end hunger in the Americas. The U.S. should be part of this effort - should find ways to support it and contribute to its success. Since President Obama has pledged to end child hunger in America by 2015, this should be a natural fit - but not if we limit our food security and nutrition efforts in Latin America just to Guatemala and Haiti. The reason why I was so glad to be invited to be here today is the important emphasis on nutrition. Over the past two days the essential nature of nutrition for children under two years has been a central and repeated theme of this conference. I promise to work with all of you to fight for those funds and for it to be a key pillar of any U.S. food security and global health strategies. I am concerned that the seven principles for a food security strategy highlighted by Secretary Clinton on June 11th at the event awarding the World Food Prize did NOT include nutrition. This is different from the comprehensive message presented by Secretary Clinton in the briefing I and several of my colleagues received at the State Department in April. My concern increased when nutrition once again failed to have a central role in the announcement just made at the G-8 on agricultural development and global food security. I realize we don't want to -muddle our message- when dealing with a G-8 communiqué, but either nutrition is a centerpiece of all our food security programs or it's not. I strongly and firmly believe that we must place the emphasis on zero-to-two and make sure the staffing, resources, funds and coordination are provided for this priority. At the same time, however, we must also ensure that nutrition is more fully incorporated and emphasized in all of our anti-hunger and food security programs. This is the very reason for having a comprehensive government-wide strategy - so that the right hand doesn't undercut what the left hand is doing. As the father of two children, I know for a fact that children over the age of two need nutritious food. So, we need to ensure that our programs for vulnerable children fully integrate nutrition into their policies, programs and projects. We need to ensure that our international school feeding programs, including McGovern-Dole, are providing nutritious meals to school-age children and teaching nutrition to the children, teachers, parents and communities served by those schools. We need to promote nutrition education not just for pregnant women, but to all families and communities that are beneficiaries or touched by our programs. As part of a comprehensive vision, we need to ensure that our nutrition and food security programs are integrating the necessary global health interventions into their projects - from de-worming, immunizations, Vitamin A and micro-nutrient fortification to clean water, hygiene, waste management and even watershed management. We need to make sure that our emergency operations are emphasizing nutrition, especially for children of all ages, and using foods that meet the special nutritional and development needs of children. But we also can't neglect the nutritional needs of adults and vulnerable populations. We need to recognize that our nutrition programs are NOT just for the severely malnourished, but for the malnourished and the under-nourished and the food insecure. We need to recognize and act upon the fact that food security and nutrition walk hand-in-hand. And we need to ensure that when we press forward with agriculture and rural development that nutrition is as central a piece of how we develop and promote increased productivity as markets and trade are. That's a comprehensive approach. That's a government-wide approach. That's the Roadmap. Thank you.
05.14.2009	Click image to play video Mr. Speaker - In 2001, I voted in favor of the resolution to authorize the use of force in Afghanistan to hold to account al-Qaeda and the Taliban for their unconscionable and unforgivable acts against our fellow citizens. I would do it again if faced with the same decision. But after eight long years our mission has been vastly expanded and the policy is unclear. It has been a very hard decision to make - because I appreciate the good work of Chairman Obey and many of the items in his bill - but I cannot support the supplemental appropriations bill. I believe not just the United States, but the international community, made a promise to the people of Afghanistan. Not to the Karzai government. Not to the regional powers. But to the people of Afghanistan. We promised that we would stand by them as they rebuilt their country after ousting al-Qaeda and the Taliban government that provided these terrorists safe haven. Everyone I know - including President Obama - keeps telling me that there is no military solution in Afghanistan, only a political solution. And I believe this, too. So, I'm very concerned when we put billions of dollars into building up our troops and the U.S. military presence in Afghanistan without a clear mission - and without an exit strategy. I believe if we're going to make the previous Administration provide Congress with clear benchmarks and an exit strategy for Iraq, then we should demand the same with this Administration in Afghanistan. I'm not advocating for an immediate withdrawal of our military forces from Afghanistan. All I'm asking for is a plan. If there is no military solution for Afghanistan, then, please, just tell me how we will know when our military contribution to the political solution has concluded. I appreciate and support the required reports on Afghanistan and Pakistan that Chairman Obey has included in the supplemental. But these reports don't tell us anything about the mission of our servicemen and women in Afghanistan and how we will know when it's time to bring them home. I hope, at the very least, at some point in the near future, we will have a full and thorough debate about our strategy in Afghanistan. Sadly, that will not happen today. In preparation for that debate, I have introduced this morning a bill, H.R. 2404, with 73 bipartisan cosponsors that requires the Secretary of Defense to outline for Congress by the end of the year the exit strategy for our military forces in Afghanistan. My bill doesn't withdraw our forces. It doesn't set a definite timeline. It simply asks the Secretary of Defense to outline what our exit strategy is. I don't think it's too much to ask that over the next 7 months, the Defense Department tell us what is the plan for completing our military mission in Afghanistan. Mr. Speaker, when I first ran for Congress, I promised my constituents that I would never send our servicemen and women into a war without a clearly defined mission. And I'm sticking to that promise. I'm sick and tired of wars that have no exits, deadlines or an end. We owe our troops and their families much better. And I'm deeply concerned about how long we will be able to sustain and pay for an expanded military presence in Afghanistan. Mr. Speaker, I simply want to know, -What is the exit strategy that brings our servicemen and women home?- Until someone gives me a credible answer, I will be voting -no.-
04.30.2009	Click image to play video M. Speaker, I am honored to stand here today in support of the Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Resolution Conference Report. I want to thank my friend and Budget Committee Chairman, John Spratt, for all of his incredible work on this budget. He's smart, he's fair, and no one cares more about these issues. I also want to thank our Ranking Member, Paul Ryan. I believe he is a thoughtful and bright member of this House, even though we usually disagree on the issues. I also want to thank the staff of the Budget Committee - Democrat and Republican - for their tireless effort and their commitment to public service. M. Speaker, the budget conference report that we are considering today represents so much more than a clean break from the past. It is a blueprint for the future. It is a roadmap for economic recovery and for investing in national priorities that will provide the American people with shared prosperity in the years and decades to come. The conference report lays the groundwork for health care reform, clean energy and quality education. It will create jobs, support working families, strengthen our national defense, and renew America's global leadership. By cutting taxes for the middle class - $1.5 trillion in tax cuts for over 95 percent of the American people, Mr. Speaker - and investing in affordable health care, education, and clean energy in a fiscally responsible way, we are taking the first critical steps to lifting our economy out of recession and creating good jobs for America's workers. For the last eight years, President Bush flat-out mismanaged the federal budget. How? By enacting huge tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that led to skyrocketing deficits, by spending hundreds of billions of dollars on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan without paying for them, and by refusing to invest in the American people. This budget cuts the deficit by more than half by 2013. And in order to get us back on a fiscally sustainable path, the budget provides a REALISTIC assessment of our fiscal outlook. Unlike the Bush Administration, we actually budget for the wars in Iraq in Afghanistan instead of hiding them under -emergency- spending categories. We budget for natural disasters that inevitably will occur. This conference report CUTS taxes for 95% of Americans. Let me repeat that, M. Speaker, because we will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other side about taxes. This budget cuts taxes for 95% of Americans. It provides immediate relief from the Alternative Minimum Tax, eliminates the estate tax on nearly all estates, and works to close corporate tax loopholes. You see, all of us believe in altering the tax code. We believe that we should reduce the tax burden on the middle class and those trying to get into the middle class. We believe that corporations shouldn't be allowed to shirk their responsibility by hiding their profits in offshore tax havens. The other side believes we should reduce taxes for the very wealthiest. It's a simple difference in philosophy. And most importantly, this budget actually invests in the American people. What a welcome change from the past eight years. We invest in health care reform, not just to improve health care quality and improve coverage, but to reduce the crushing burden of health care costs on American businesses. Everybody likes to talk about health care reform; this budget actually gets it done. We invest in clean energy in order to create jobs, improve the environment and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. We invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Everybody likes to talk about energy independence; this budget actually gets it done. And we invest in education to reclaim our place as the best-educated workforce in the world. We work to expand early childhood education and to make college more affordable. Everybody likes to talk about improving education; this budget actually gets it done. And this is a budget that will allow Congress, if and when the time comes, to vote up-or-down on health care reform and education reform, and avoid the infamous obstructionism so characteristic of the other body and the other side of the aisle. It certainly doesn't guarantee passage of such reforms, but it will allow for and require a straight up-or-down vote in each chamber. I know that change is hard. I know some of my colleagues want to cling desperately to the failed policies of the past. But the good news is that despite all the nasty press releases and television ads and talk radio attacks on the President, the American people still support President Obama's vision for America. That's why this budget is so very important. This is a budget with a conscience. It's a budget that believes in the American spirit. And it's a budget that fulfills the promises that President Obama made to the American people. M. Speaker, we are at a crucial moment. Our country can meet its potential. Our children can have a better future. Our economy can once again create good-paying jobs. But in order to make that happen, we need to change. We need to move in a bold, innovative new direction. We need to pass this budget. I urge my colleagues join me in support of this rule and the underlying bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
04.27.2009	Congressman McGovern delivered the following remarks this morning while demonstrating against the Sudanese government's refusal to allow international aid organizations back into Darfur to ease the escalating humanitarian crisis there. After a brief series of speeches in front of the Sudanese Embassy, Congressman McGovern and four other members of Congress were arrested in an effort to raise awareness and force action in Darfur. Three years ago, I stood on these steps and called for an end to the genocide in Darfur. I do not want to be here in 2012 calling on the Sudanese government to stop the killing. Once again, we have a major humanitarian crisis in Darfur - this time brought on by President Bashir's expulsion of key humanitarian workers - groups like Oxfam and Save the Children - who provide the food, water and medicine that keep people alive. Last week, the UN said Bashir's action puts in danger the very survival of over one million people. We need to care. We need to act. Every life is of equal value. Who are we as a people if we let the children of Darfur die because President Bashir willfully denies them the most basic right to survive? And every single day of inaction more people die. They die from attacks by the Janjaweed, Bashir's army and the rebels; and they die from hunger and disease. President Bashir has a choice - He can choose to let the humanitarian groups return and let them carry out their work unimpeded; he can choose to end the violence and the killing; and he can choose serious negotiations for a just and lasting peace. Or he can continue to commit crimes against humanity - crimes with which he is already charged - and charges that will one day catch up with him and bring him down. In his first 100 days, President Obama has said many of the right things on Darfur; he has appointed a special envoy; and he has begun a review of US policy. But we don't need to reinvent the wheel on Darfur. What we need from President Obama is the decision to devote his time and personal political capital to save lives, end the killing, and help broker a just and lasting peace. Will he pick up the phone and directly engage Sudan's neighbors, African leaders, and the world community and stop this? Will he provide the transport helicopters so desperately needed by the AU-UN peacekeeping force to protect the Darfur people? Will he tighten the arms embargo around Khartoum? Will he hold Bashir accountable for the safety and well-being of the people of Darfur? I know our President cares deeply about the tragedy in Darfur. He has spoken eloquently and passionately on this crisis. But there is no more time. Each day, another child dies in Darfur. The time to act is now.
04.24.2009	Sessions Will Continue With Congressional Staff The office of U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) today announced that because of an unexpected death in the McGovern family, Rep. McGovern will not be able to attend the Congressional Office Hours scheduled for this Saturday, April 25th. However, members of Rep. McGovern's staff will be present to meet with constituents in those communities. The office hours are as follows: Saturday, April 25th: 8:00 - 9:00 a.m. Boylston / Town House / 599 Main Street 11:15 a.m. - 12:15 p.m. Shrewsbury / Border's Books / 475 Boston Turnpike 1:30 - 2:30 p.m. Auburn / Auburn Town Pizza / 69 Auburn Street 3:00 - 4:00 p.m. Paxton / Paxton Senior Center / 17 West Street
04.02.2009	Congressman James P. McGovern, Democratic Co-Chairman of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission in the U.S. House of Representatives, issued the following statement on the just announced intention of the United States to seek a seat on the United Nations Human Rights Council: -I am very pleased that President Obama has made the bold decision for the U.S. to run for a seat on the United Nations Human Rights Council. I am committed to working closely with other human rights leaders in the Congress to provide the Administration with any support it may need to successfully implement this important decision. When the old U.N. Human Rights Commission became marred by political brinksmanship and intrigue, and the worst human rights offenders were allowed to take over this U.N. human rights mechanism, the world came together in a reform effort that led to the creation of the Human Rights Council. While this fledgling entity carried high hopes internationally for a dramatic improvement in human rights accountability, the self-fulfilling prophesy of the previous Administration that the Council would as surely fail as the Commission did, coupled with the failure of the United States to provide strong human rights leadership by choosing not to participate, seriously undermined the work and credibility of the Council from its inauguration. Predictably, the Council fell into the same patterns that had bogged down the Commission before, becoming obsessed with criticism of Israel on every occasion while major human rights violations in Sudan, Zimbabwe, China, Burma and other areas were hardly mentioned or investigated. It is high time the United States rejoins the rest of the family of nations in making the Council the strongest international human rights entity yet. I am certain that under Secretary Clinton's and Ambassador Rice's leadership, the United States will not only mount a successful bid for the seat, but will once again be a leader in the defense of human rights, and will work successfully for the structural changes needed to improve the Council. You need to be in it to win it."
04.02.2009	(click image to play video) M. Speaker, I am honored to stand here today to introduce the Fiscal Year 2010 House Budget Resolution. I want to thank my friend and Budget Committee Chairman, John Spratt, for all of his incredible work on this budget. He's smart, he's fair, and no one cares more about these issues. I also want to thank our Ranking Member, Paul Ryan. Even though I often, disagree with him, I admire his intellect and his dedication to his principles. I thought we had a spirited, substantive debate in the Budget Committee, and I'm sure we'll have more of the same here on the floor. I also want to thank the staff of the Budget Committee - Democrat and Republican - for their tireless effort and their commitment to public service. The budget before us today represents a clean break from the past. For the last eight years, President Bush flat-out mismanaged the federal budget. How? By enacting huge tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that led to skyrocketing deficits, by spending hundreds of billions of dollars on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan without paying for them, and by refusing to invest in the American people. In November, the American people said -Enough.- They voted for change. They voted for a new direction. And that's what this budget is all about. We are not only turning the page on the last eight years - we're writing a whole new book. Our budget cuts the deficit by more than half by 2013. It cuts taxes for middle income families by $1.5 trillion. It creates jobs by investing in health care, clean energy and education. Let me briefly outline those three areas: fiscal discipline, middle class tax cuts, and investments in the American people. As I said, our budget will cut the deficit by more than half in 2013. And in order to get us back on a fiscally sustainable path, the budget provides a REALISTIC assessment of our fiscal outlook. Unlike the Bush Administration, we actually budget for the wars in Iraq in Afghanistan instead of hiding them under -emergency- spending categories. We budget for natural disasters that inevitably will occur. Our budget CUTS taxes for 95% of Americans. Let me repeat that, M. Speaker, because we will hear a lot of rhetoric from the other side about taxes. This budget cuts taxes for 95% of Americans. It provides immediate relief from the Alternative Minimum Tax, eliminates the estate tax on nearly all estates, and works to close corporate tax loopholes. You see, all of us believe in altering the tax code. We believe that we should reduce the tax burden on the middle class and those trying to get into the middle class. We believe that corporations shouldn't be allowed to shirk their responsibility by hiding their profits in offshore tax havens. The other side believes we should reduce taxes for the very wealthiest. It's a simple difference in philosophy. And most importantly, this budget actually invests in the American people. What a welcome change from the past eight years. We invest in health care reform, not just to improve health care quality and improve coverage, but to reduce the crushing burden of health care costs on American businesses. Everybody likes to talk about health care reform; this budget actually gets it done. We invest in clean energy in order to create jobs, improve the environment and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. We invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Everybody likes to talk about energy independence; this budget actually gets it done. And we invest in education to reclaim our place as the best-educated workforce in the world. We work to expand early childhood education and to make college more affordable. Everybody likes to talk about improving education; this budget actually gets it done. So that's what WE would do. And as for my Republican friends? More of the same. Last week they made a big to-do when they introduced their own QUOTE- -Budget- - END QUOTE. In fact, it wasn't much of a budget at all, given the fact that it didn't include any numbers. What it did include was lots of empty rhetoric and a belief in massive tax cuts for the wealthy. M. Speaker, the American people have seen that movie before, and they gave it ‘two thumbs down.' I know its April Fool's day, but don't be fooled by my Republican friends. My Republican friends will talk a lot about the difference in economic growth estimates between the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office. But here's the thing: There will be NO growth unless we invest in the American people. There will be NO growth unless we get a handle on these deficits. There will be NO growth as long as health care costs and inadequate education and dependence on foreign oil keep us down. I know that change is hard. I know my Republican friends want to cling desperately to the failed policies of the past. But the good news is that despite all the nasty press releases and television ads and talk radio attacks on the President, the American people still support President Obama's vision for America. That's why this budget is so very important. This is a budget with a conscience. It's a budget that believes in the American spirit. And it's a budget that fulfills the promises that President Obama made to the American people. We are at a crucial moment, M. Speaker. Our country can meet its potential. Our children can have a better future. But in order to make that happen, we need to change. We need to move in a bold, innovative new direction. We need to pass this budget. I urge my colleagues join me in support of this rule and the underlying bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
03.26.2009	A study released Thursday by the Government Accountability Office shows that commuter rail lines bear most of the liability for accidents that occur on tracks they share with freight railroads. The report was requested by four Members of Congress: James L. Oberstar (Minn.), Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; John W. Olver (Mass.), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies; and James P. McGovern (Mass.) and Kathy Castor (Fla.), both members of the House Rules Committee. The report is titled, -Commuter Rail: Many Factors Influence Liability and Indemnity Provisions, and Options Exist to Facilitate Negotiations- (GAO-09-282). According to GAO, one-third of commuter rail indemnity agreements that GAO examined require public commuter rail authorities to accept all responsibility for accidents regardless of fault, including accidents resulting from the gross negligence or reckless or willful misconduct on the part of another railroad, and another one-third of the agreements are silent on the matter. The report also noted that several courts of law and the Surface Transportation Board have held that this practice is contrary to the public interest. Further, GAO stated that, since most commuter rail lines receive some sort of government subsidy, the indemnity agreement could make taxpayers liable for the damages. -The report confirms that the unequal bargaining powers of local, public transit authorities and multinational, private freight rail companies in part influence liability negotiations, and often result in commuter railroads assuming most of the financial risks for serving the public,- said Oberstar. -In fact, some of these agreements make no exception for cases of gross negligence or willful misconduct. This is an unacceptable practice.- Olver said, -This report will serve as a useful tool for decision makers across the country grappling with this issue. We have to thoroughly understand the factors influencing these negotiations, as well as the universe of options available, to ensure that agreements move passengers and goods in a safe, efficient way.- -I'm pleased that the GAO report acknowledges the absence of a national, industry-wide standard for freight rail liability,- McGovern said. -As we work to expand both freight rail and commuter rail, we must ensure that taxpayers are protected. I look forward to working with Chairman Oberstar in the coming months on this important issue.- -This GAO report is a necessary and thorough examination of liability and indemnity in the area of commuter rail,- Castor said. -The report details this complex and often confusing area for policy makers and the public.- Oberstar commended GAO for the report and pledged to use the information regarding commuter rail indemnity agreements as the Committee further examines the issue. Read the full report at http://transportation.house.gov/.
03.26.2009	Senators Edward M. Kennedy, John F. Kerry, Sheldon Whitehouse and Jack Reed, and Representatives Barney Frank, James P. McGovern and Patrick J. Kennedy today commended the House of Representatives for the passage of legislation to support the protection and community-based management of Taunton River as part of the Wild & Scenic River system. The legislation passed the Senate in January, and will now be sent to President Obama for his signature. Senator Kennedy said, -Taunton River is an extraordinary part of our Commonwealth's heritage and environment, and this national recognition is eminently deserved. The communities along the river watershed have worked hard for this designation, and they deserve great credit for this achievement.- -The Taunton River's natural beauty, important ecology and cultural heritage make it one of our state's most treasured natural resources. It is the longest coastal river in New England without dams, making it a haven for countless species of fish and other wildlife. The communities and associations have done a great job of maintaining and preserving the river over the years and now it will be permanently protected it for future generations,- said Senator Kerry. -I am very pleased that we have passed this important legislation recognizing the vital natural and recreational aspects of the Taunton River. I appreciate all of the hard work in support of the bill that was provided by the cities and towns along the river, and the non-profit groups and area residents that have been leading advocates for the Wild and Scenic designation. Passage of the bill helps ensure that the river will remain a valuable resource that can be enjoyed by future generations,- said Congressman Frank. -I'm very pleased that the Taunton River has finally received this designation,- Rep. McGovern said. -This day has been a long time in coming. The communities along the Taunton deserve enormous credit for all of their hard work and advocacy to make this designation a reality.- -The Taunton River is part of the larger Narragansett and Bristol Bay watersheds and its health directly affects Narragansett Bay and Rhode Island's precious coastal areas,- said Whitehouse, a member of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee. -I'm glad that this beautiful stretch of river will finally be protected, as it deserves to be, for people to enjoy long into the future.- -The Taunton River is Narragansett Bay's second largest tributary and is vital to the environmental health of the Bay. By securing this -Wild and Scenic- designation we will protect the Taunton River and take steps to improve ecosystems that are critically important to the region,- said Senator Jack Reed (D-RI). -The Taunton River is a special waterway with historical and environmental significance to our region. This designation will protect this precious natural resource and benefit the connected ecosystems that depend on river. I commend the efforts of the environmental advocates who have worked tirelessly on today's victory,- said Congressman Kennedy. The Taunton River is the longest coastal river in New England without dams. It supports 45 species of fish and many species of shellfish, including seven types of freshwater mussels, and its archaeological treasures date back 10,000 years. The watershed is a habitat for 154 species of birds, including 12 rare types. It is also home to the river otter, mink, gray fox, and deer. The legislation designates as -Wild and Scenic- the Taunton River between the confluence of Town River and Matfield River in Bridgewater to Mount Hope Bay in Fall River. Federal funds available under the designation will help protect the river. Kennedy and Kerry introduced legislation in 1999 with former Congressman Joe Moakley (D-Mass.) to authorize a study of the Taunton River for consideration for a Wild and Scenic River Designation, and that legislation was signed into law on October 19th, 2000. The Study identified six special values relating to the river: Agriculture; Ecology and Biodiversity; Estuary; Fisheries; History and Archaeology; and Recreation and Scenery. The Taunton River Stewardship Council will serve as the principal partner of the National Park Service in implementing and overseeing the Wild and Scenic River designation. The Council will have representatives of the towns of Bridgewater, Halifax, Middleborough, Raynham, Berkley, Freetown, Dighton, Somerset, the cities of Taunton and Fall River, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District, the Wildlands Trust of Southeastern Massachusetts, the Natural Resources Trust of Bridgewater, the Taunton River Watershed Alliance, Save the Bay, the Nature Conservancy, and the Council Oak Wampanoags. The National Park Service will implement its responsibilities for Wild and Scenic River management in consultation and coordination with the Council. All expenditures of any federal appropriations resulting from the designation will be coordinated and reviewed with the Council.
03.26.2009	Bipartisan Bill Calls for Continued Reductions in Nuclear Arsenal, Investments in Children U.S. Reps. Jim McGovern (D-MA) and Dan Lungren (R-CA) today reintroduced their -Global Security Priorities- Resolution. The resolution recognizes -the paramount need to address the threat of international terrorism and protect the international security of the United States by reducing the number of and accessibility to nuclear weapons and preventing their proliferation;- calls for directing -a portion of the resulting savings toward child survival, hunger, and universal education;- and calls -on the President to take action to achieve these goals.- The resolution notes that the United States and the Russian Federation have pledged to significantly reduce nuclear arms in coming years, resulting in up to $13 billion in annual savings. Importantly $1 billion of this savings would go to support the Nunn- Lugar Program. The resolution also calls for a significant portion of those savings to be directed toward investments in child nutrition, health care, and education programs. Importantly, the resolution states that -addressing the needs of the very poor in the world, particularly children, reduces a source of international tension and local despair that contribute to terrorist initiatives.- -This resolution represents a strong, bipartisan commitment to making our world a safer, better place,- Rep. McGovern said. -We believe that continued reduction in nuclear weapons is smart policy. And we believe that improving the lives of poor children around the world is not just the moral thing to do - it also improves our security by enhancing our image, reducing global tensions and weakening the ability of terrorists to recruit adherents to their hateful agenda. I want to thank Rep. Lungren for his hard work and commitment to these issues.- -It is an honor to work on this important resolution with Rep. McGovern,- Rep. Lungren said. -In assessing the risks posed by the possible use of nuclear weapons we are obligated as moral beings to think of the unthinkable. The world has changed dramatically over the last half century and so have the nature of the threats with which we must contend. We now must worry about the possibility that al Qaeda or some other shadowy jihadist group might successfully obtain nuclear materials or weapons of mass destruction. Strengthening the Nunn-Lugar Threat Reduction Program will enhance our nation's security. Savings from reduction on the size of our nuclear arsenal will target the recruiting grounds of potential terrorists by soft power initiatives such as the McGovern -Dole food program.- The resolution, H. Res. 278, will likely be referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
03.24.2009	Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John F. Kerry and Congressmen Barney Frank and James McGovern announced today that the Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District (SRPEDD) will receive a grant of $60,000 from the Economic Development Administration of the U.S. Department of Commerce. The funds will be used to establish a development strategy that supports private capital investment and job creation in the region. Senator Kennedy said, -With these funds, communities in Southeastern Massachusetts will be in a position to become a more powerful presence in the New England economy in the years ahead, and I look forward to the results.- -Cities and towns in Southeastern Massachusetts can use this funding to create jobs, jobs, and jobs while protecting natural and historic resources. My colleagues and I will continue to ensure that economic development funding continues to flow into the region,- said Senator Kerry. Frank said, -I'm pleased that SPREDD has received this economic development grant, and I will continue to do everything I can to support job growth and retention in southeastern Massachusetts, an area which has been hit particularly hard during the recent economic downturn.- -SRPEDD is an important part of our economic development strategy in Southeastern Massachusetts,- Rep. McGovern said. -These communities have been hit particularly hard during this recession, and I'm pleased that the Department of Commerce has provided this funding.- The Economic Development Administration is a source of capital to enable cities and towns across the country to respond more effectively to their economic development needs. Its mission is to -lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy.- For more information on the Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District, please visit www.srpedd.org.
03.19.2009	Click image to play video M. Speaker. H.Res.184 provides for consideration of H.R. 1105, the -Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009.- The rule provides one hour of debate controlled by the Committee on Appropriations and one motion to recommit with or without instructions. The rule also self-executes an amendment that blocks the automatic cost-of-living adjustment due to be provided to Members of Congress in 2010. M. Speaker, I rise in support of this rule and in support of the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act. This bill represents the completion of last year's work. We are in this position today for one principal reason - George W. Bush failed to provide budgets that reflected the real needs of the American people. And his philosophy was essentially ‘my way or the highway.' If he had gotten his way last year, he would have cut energy efficiency, renewable energy and weatherization programs. He would have cut education by eliminating vocational education programs, slashing higher education programs, and cutting programs to help teachers and improve technology. He would have cut healthcare access programs even as the number of uninsured Americans grew. He would have frozen biomedical research funding, and cut the Centers for Disease Control. And he would have cut state and local law enforcement grants and job training, employment services and worker protections during the economic crisis. So, today, our job is to fix things; to clean up the mess of the last Administration and to help people. Last night, President Obama promised to do things differently. He promised an honest accounting of our Nation's needs. That may not seem revolutionary, but it's a big and positive change from the past eight years. For the first time, the costs of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan will actually be included in the budget. The costs won't be covered up - or hidden. The American people will know the real costs of these wars. We will anticipate and budget for federal dollars in response to natural disasters like hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and earthquakes. In short, there will be more truth-telling. We need to move forward, and I believe we will. But first, we need to dispense with last year's business. Some on the other side say we shouldn't pass this omnibus bill today because it is too big and too expensive. They complain that it will add to the deficit. It's interesting to hear my friends on the other side of the aisle worry out loud about the deficit. Where have they been for the last eight years? Facts are stubborn things, M. Speaker, and the facts speak for themselves. M. Speaker, we're facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and the biggest debt in the history of this country. This is something we inherited from my friends on the other side. So it is somewhat ironic that the very people who drove this economy into a ditch are now complaining about the size of the tow truck. I believe that we need to do whatever humanly possible to get this economy back on track and to help the American people. I believe this President has the political will to do the right thing and I believe this Congress will support him. What is before us, to put it simply, is help for states, cities and towns and for average people. There's an increase over current levels. This, combined with the Recovery and Reinvestment Act, provides a lot of help to a lot of people. M. Speaker - this is not the bill I would have written if it were solely up to me. I want to see more money in this bill for roads and bridges, more money for international food aid and anti-hunger programs like the McGovern- Dole Program and Food for Peace, and more money to combat climate change. I want to see Pell Grants fully funded and I want to make sure that all eligible children receive a meal during the summer months if they receive a meal during the school year. But I'm glad we reversed the Bush cuts on domestic priorities. I'm proud of the increased funding for WIC in this bill, funding that will help low-income pregnant mothers and newborns receive the healthy food they need. I'm pleased that this bill provides a 19 percent increase for the Food and Drug Administration, funding that will be used for critical oversight of our nation's food supply so that we don't have more contamination scares like the recent peanut contamination cases we've recently seen. This bill also increases funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act by providing $558 million above 2008 for a total of $11.5 billion. And this bill provides $550 million for the COPS program, a program critical to the safety of our cities and towns. M. Speaker, we need to get this bill completed. We need to finish the job left over from the last Congress and turn the page - once and for all - on the last eight years. I urge my colleagues to support this rule and this bill. I reserve the balance of my time.
03.19.2009	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), U.S. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA) and U.S. Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) today announced that communities in the 3rd Congressional District will receive over $1.7 million in funding for law enforcement. The funding announced today was included in the fiscal stimulus package recently signed into law by President Obama, and is available through the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program. JAG program funds can be used for a variety of efforts such as hiring law enforcement officers; supporting drug and gang task forces; funding crime prevention and domestic violence programs; and supporting courts, corrections, treatment, and justice information sharing initiatives. The procedure for allocating JAG grants is based on a formula of population and violent crime statistics. -Cities and towns are facing extremely difficult economic times,- Rep. McGovern said. -The federal assistance we are announcing today will help these communities maintain public safety and law enforcement programs. I'm very pleased that these funds were included in the stimulus package and that the Justice Department is making them available so quickly.- -With serious budget shortfalls and the growing threat of crime facing so many of our communities across the Commonwealth in the current economic crisis, these federal funds are essential in our efforts to ensure public safety,- Sen. Kennedy said. We'll continue to fight for strong federal support for state and local law enforcement. Our communities need this help.- -As a former prosecutor and someone who has heard from law enforcement officers again and again about the impact of the Byrne program on crime-fighting, I know that this investment will help ensure that even in tough economic times we don't take our eye off of crime,- Sen. Kerry said. -This funding will allow our state's law enforcement officers to continue to deal with the drug problem, keep more cops on our streets, combat gang violence and improve the use of crime-fighting technology.- The funding announced today will be allocated in the 3rd District as follows: Attleboro: $69,385 Ashland: $13,054 Auburn: $67,597 Fall River*: $606,943 Marlborough: $17,168 North Attleborough: $23,427 Plainville: $10,730 Seekonk: $20,386 Shrewsbury: $11,087 Somerset: $30,580 Swansea: $28,434 Westborough: $12,876 Worcester: $791,673 TOTAL: $1,703,340 *U.S. Barney Frank (D-MA) shares representation of Fall River with Rep. McGovern
03.19.2009	Click image to play video M. Speaker - I rise today in strong support of this important resolution. I thank my friend Congressman Rush Holt, Speaker Pelosi, and the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, for their leadership in the long struggle for freedom, dignity and human rights in Tibet. M. Speaker, for six decades, the history of Tibet is marked by violence. Even before 1949, the People's Liberation Army of China entered the eastern areas of Tibet during The Long March. In 1951, they finally occupied the capital of Lhasa. Fifty years ago, on March 10th, the Tibetan people rose up in Lhasa against Chinese rule. The backlash was furious and brutal. On March 17th, the Dalai Lama fled Lhasa for his own safety, joined by some 80,000 Tibetans for life in exile. Tens of thousands of Tibetans who remained were killed or imprisoned. Thanks to thriving exile communities in India, Europe and the United States, Tibetan cultural identity, language and religion have survived. They have focused world attention on the Tibetan struggle. But each year and every year, the situation inside Tibet grows worse - with more repression, more arrests, more displacement, more deliberate destruction of the Tibetan language, culture and religion. One year ago, new protests rose up in Tibet. They were the result of greater controls over religious and cultural activities, development that mainly benefited Chinese migrants, and forced resettlement of Tibetan farmers and nomads. Thousands were arrested. To date, there has been no full accounting by Chinese authorities of those arrested, detained, tried, sentenced or released. No access to those detained by the International Committee of the Red Cross or other international observers. And all the time, the Tibetan people daily become more of a minority in their own land. M. Speaker, as the new Co-Chair of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, it is humbling to follow in the footsteps of Tom Lantos. The Congressional Human Rights Caucus, which he founded, was the very first to give the Dalai Lama a voice on Capitol Hill in 1987. On this 50th Anniversary, let's be very clear that the American people and this House stand with His Holiness. We will not rest until meaningful and full autonomy for the Tibetan people is achieved - and the Dalai Lama and his people can fulfill their dream of returning home to Tibet.
03.19.2009	Click image to play video Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of this rule and the underlying legislation. The American people are outraged - and rightly so - at the news that insurance giant AIG has given large bonuses to some of its employees. It is outrageous that a company that is being bailed out by the American taxpayer is providing bonuses to the people who dealt in these exotic financial instruments. Those employees made bad bets, and now the American people are paying the tab. Mr. Speaker, not many of my constituents are getting ‘retention bonuses,' these days - I can tell you that. They're not sure if they're going to wake up tomorrow with a job. In Fall River, the unemployment rate is 16%. The city is being forced to lay off police officers and firefighters. Food banks are at capacity. And they are being asked to pony up ‘retention bonuses' for the people who got us into this mess? It's nuts. I know that the CEO of AIG said yesterday that he has asked the people who have received these bonuses to give them back. And that's great. But I'm afraid we can't simply rely on their goodhearted generosity. I understand, and I support, the need to ensure the stability of the American banking system. We need to get credit flowing again. We need to make sure that people have access to mortgages and car loans and student loans. We need to make sure that small businesses have access to credit. But we also need to make sure that bad behavior isn't rewarded with taxpayer money. That's what this bill is all about. And as President Obama has rightly said, we must also put in place the appropriate rules and regulations going forward, so that this kind of financial collapse never happens again. Again, I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the underlying bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
03.05.2009	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today announced that the Holden Fire Department has been awarded $261,250 in Vehicle Acquisition funding under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighter Grant program. -I'm very pleased with this funding,- Rep. McGovern said. -I know that this federal assistance has been a high priority for the Holden Fire Department. The Department will now be able to obtain a new, much safer tanker. I believe that homeland security starts with hometown security. It's critical that we provide local first responders with the resources they need to protect our communities. The federal government must be a partner in that effort. I will continue to be a strong supporter of this Assistance to Firefighter Grant program, and I'll work to maintain its funding in Congress.- The Holden Fire Department will use the funding announced today for a new pumper tanker, replacing a 1984 tanker that was constructed from a used military tow truck and a used oil tanker. The new tanker represents a significant safety upgrade for the Department. Eligible apparatus available to fire departments under the Vehicle Acquisition program includes, but is not limited to, pumpers, brush trucks, tankers/tenders, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration, part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. On March 1, 2003, FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. FEMA's continuing mission within the new department is to lead the effort to prepare the nation for all hazards and effectively manage federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. More information can be found at www.firegrantsupport.com
02.27.2009	U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today announced that the Westborough, Attleboro and Seekonk Fire Departments have been awarded a total of $384,815 in Operations and Safety funding under the 2008 Assistance to Firefighter Grant program. Westborough will receive $94,677. Attleboro will receive $223,636. Seekonk will receive $66,500. -I'm very pleased with this funding,- Rep. McGovern said. -I believe that homeland security starts with hometown security. It's critical that we provide local first responders with the resources they need to protect our communities. The federal government must be a partner in that effort. I will continue to be a strong supporter of this Assistance to Firefighter Grant program, and I'll work to maintain its funding in Congress.- Under the Operations and Safety Program, eligible activities for fire departments include training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and health and safety modifications to stations and facilities. The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Program is administered by the U.S. Fire Administration, part of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and assists rural, urban and suburban fire departments throughout the United States. On March 1, 2003, FEMA became part of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. FEMA's continuing mission within the new department is to lead the effort to prepare the nation for all hazards and effectively manage federal response and recovery efforts following any national incident. More information can be found at www.firegrantsupport.com
02.27.2009	-Thank you all for being here today. I'm particularly honored to be with my Ambassador Tony Hall, with my great friend Jo Ann Emerson, and with so many leaders in the fight against global hunger. -I believe that today represents an incredibly important step in the effort to end hunger around the world. I often say that hunger is a political condition - we have the resources to end it, but what we need is the political will to make it happen. -But in addition to the necessary political will, we also need a plan. A real, concrete, actionable plan. And that's why this Roadmap is so very important. The Roadmap emphasizes a comprehensive strategy that balances short-term emergency needs with long term development. It stresses the need to fund these priorities. And it focuses on speed and flexibility. -It is my intention, working with Jo Ann and other like-minded colleagues, to introduce legislation based on the recommendations in the Roadmap. -Back in November, Jo Ann and I spearheaded a bipartisan letter to President-Elect Obama, asking him to establish a so-called Hunger Czar. Historically, our anti-hunger efforts have been hampered by the fact that they are spread out over different agencies in different departments. We believe that a single point-person in the White House should be named to coordinate all of these programs and to take the lead into putting a comprehensive strategy into place. -Now, we all know that budgets are very, very tight right now. People may ask, ‘Why should we spend money on hunger around the world when we have so many pressing problems here at home?' My response is this: While ending hunger is certainly the morally correct thing to do, this isn't just charity we're talking about. This is an investment in our own long-term economic and national security interests. -Let me give you one example - Afghanistan. Three quarters of Afghans are small farmers or nomads without sufficient agricultural development and food security. That makes the prospects of a stable, secure Afghanistan much more difficult. And that's true of the majority of the developing world. -The simple fact is this: We know these programs can and do work. Again, thank you all for being here today. It is now my honor to introduce a real champion in this fight, my friend, Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson of Missouri.-
02.27.2009	Package includes Rep. McGovern's transit benefit provision U.S. Rep. Jim McGovern today hailed passage in the House of Representatives of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. -America is facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression,- Rep. McGovern said. -We need to act quickly and boldly to put people back to work and restore confidence. It's estimated that this package will save or create 7,600 jobs in the Third Congressional District alone. In addition, it will provide over $180 million for badly-needed water infrastructure projects in Massachusetts, in addition to other road, bridge and transit projects. It will cut taxes for 95% of workers. And it will make significant investments in our schools, our health care, and our energy independence.- The bill also provides relief to those hardest hit by the current economic downturn, including an increase in food and nutrition benefits, unemployment benefits, worker training and Trade Adjustment assistance. In addition, Rep. McGovern commended House and Senate leaders for including changes to the tax code to provide parity for mass transit benefits, an issue Rep. McGovern has long championed. Current law provides a tax-free fringe benefit employers can provide to employees for transit and parking. Those benefits are set at different dollar amounts; currently there is more incentive for employers to provide parking benefits than to provide mass transit benefits. The McGovern provision included in the stimulus bill sets both the parking and transit benefits at $230 per month for 2009 and indexes them equally for 2010. -It makes no sense to encourage employers to offer parking benefits instead of mass transit benefits,- Rep. McGovern said. -The inclusion of this provision is great news for transit commuters and great news for our environment. I want to thank Sen. Kerry for all of his efforts in the Senate on this issue.-
01.27.2009	M. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. George W. Bush left the country with an economy much worse off than the one he inherited from the Clinton Administration. Eight years after being handed record budget surpluses, President Bush passed onto President Obama an economy that has record budget deficits and is in the worse shape since the Great Depression. Unemployment is rising - 55,000 more jobs were lost yesterday alone. Wages are stagnating and work hours are being cut back. People are having trouble making ends meet - including putting food on the table. And that's where this recovery package steps in. The provisions that make up the American Recovery and Reinvestment Package range from investments in infrastructure and green technology to extending unemployment for workers who have exhausted their benefits. We provide aid to struggling state governments and tax cuts for low- and middle-income families and small businesses. These are good investments that will help reinvigorate our economy, and I look forward to voting for them tomorrow. Some of the most important parts of this package are the anti-hunger provisions that will not only stimulate the economy, but will also help combat hunger in this country. This recovery package includes $20 billion for the Food Stamp program; $200 million for elderly nutrition services, including Meals on Wheels and Congregate Meals; $726 million to increase the number of states that provide free healthy dinners to children in need; $150 million to purchase commodities for food banks to refill emptying shelves; and $100 million to improve state management information systems for the WIC program. Food Stamp increases will reach about 14 million low-income households as soon as 25 days after enactment. About 90 percent of all food stamp households have income below the poverty line. In other words, these benefits are timely and targeted. M. Speaker, it's important to note that every dollar in food stamps that a low-income family receives enables that family to spend an additional dollar on food or other items. Don't just take my word for it, leading conservative economists support inclusion of these benefits in the recovery package. Former Reagan Economic Advisor Martin Feldstein has said that a temporary food stamp increase would place resources in the pockets of people with a high propensity to spend quickly, rather than save, the limited income they have. Mark Zandi, a former economic advisor to the McCain campaign, says that a temporary increase in food stamp benefits gives the best -- quote - -bang for the buck.- Specifically, he estimates that such an increase would generate $1.73 in increased economic activity for each $1.00 in cost. M. Speaker, increasing Food Stamps is not charity - it's stimulus. It's not a hand-out or a give-away. But investments in anti-hunger programs do also fulfill our moral commitment to make sure our fellow citizens have enough to eat. More than 36 million Americans went hungry in 2007, before the economy took this drastic spike downward. Yet the last stimulus plan signed into law didn't include any Food Stamp increases. The fact that hunger remains a problem in America should make every single member in this chamber feel ashamed. H.R. 1 gives us a chance to begin to solve this problem, and to prevent many more American families from slipping into hunger. I urge my colleagues to support this package, and I yield back the balance of my time.
01.27.2009	I thank the gentlelady from New York for yielding me the time. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks. First, let me congratulate Speaker Pelosi as she begins her second term as Speaker of this House. I also want to congratulate my colleagues for their elections and I welcome our new colleagues to the House. Our nation is facing very challenging times. Twelve years ago, when I was first elected, our economy was still growing and we were looking at a significant budget surplus. Our world was relatively peaceful. Now, after eight years of reckless and wasteful spending and after an ill-advised war, we face a global economic meltdown and international instability that seem to be spreading all too quickly. In November, the American people elected a new President and larger Democratic majorities in the Congress. The voters sent a very clear message: things have got to change here in Washington. We know that Congress will need to act quickly and responsibly in order to pass legislation to help our nation solve our economic and foreign policy problems. And this Rules Package is designed to help us do just that. This is a good package and I'm pleased to support it today. There are many important parts to this package. I'm pleased that this is the first Rules package that is gender neutral. There are other technical fixes included in this package that will help the House operate more smoothly and efficiently. But, as we heard from Ranking Member Dreier, there are some changes that are receiving more attention than others. For instance, this Rules package eliminates term limits for Committee Chairs. It's a good, necessary reform that will take some of the politics out of the process of becoming a Committee Chair. The then-Republican Majority included term limits on Committee Chairs in their first Rules Package in 1995. During their Majority, political fundraising played far too large a role in becoming a committee chair. Members publicly argued that because they had raised vast sums of money from special interests, they were entitled to chair a committee. While fundraising is a necessary part of our electoral process, it shouldn't be the criteria for selection of a Committee Chair. Eliminating term limits helps address this problem. The other major change deals with the Motion to Recommit, which is modernized in this package. Specifically, the Minority will no longer be able to offer a -promptly- motion to recommit. The Minority will have the ability to offer a proper -forthwith- motion or a -straight- motion. But no longer will the minority be able abuse the process by offering political amendments designed to either kill a bill without actually voting against it or to provide fodder for a 30-second political ad. During the 12 years while Democrats were in the Minority, we offered only 36 -promptly- Motions to Recommit. Over the last two years, Republicans offered 50 of these motions. Following the 2006 elections that brought Democrats back into the Majority in the House, the new Republican minority had two options - either work in a bipartisan way to address the needs of the American people or obstruct the business of this House through gotcha-style politics. Unfortunately, too-often they chose the latter. The Motion to Recommit was not designed for this purpose. It was designed to be a tool for legislating, not a political weapon. Repeatedly, the Democratic Majority attempted to work with the Republican Minority on their Motions to Recommit. But every time we offered to accept their Motion in return for not killing the bill, the Republican Minority refused. They chose talking points over accomplishments. That's not legislating, and it's not what the voters sent us here to do. I strongly disagree with those who say modernizing the Motion to Recommit is undemocratic. Let me be clear: any member who opposes a bill still has the ability - indeed, the responsibility - to vote -no.- Congressional Scholar Norm Ornstein said it best - quote -A minority party deserves the right to be heard and to have alternatives considered, but with those rights come responsibilities. If the Minority uses the opportunity to offer amendments to exploit cynically the opening for political purposes - through ‘gotcha' amendments designed to offer 30-second attack ads against vulnerable majority lawmakers, or through poison-pill alternatives designed only to scuttle a bill, not to offer a real alternative - it soon will lose its moral high ground for objecting to Majority restriction on debate an amendments.- Finally, M. Speaker, I want to point out that included in H. Res. 5 is the reauthorization of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. The United States must reclaim its moral authority on human rights. I am honored to Co-Chair the Commission along with my good friend Frank Wolf of Virginia, and I look forward to working with him and our other members to advance the cause of human rights around the world. Again, I thank the gentlelady from New York, our distinguished Chair of the Rules Committee, for the time, and I yield back the balance of my time.
01.27.2009	
01.27.2009	U.S. Rep. James P. McGovern Co-Chair Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission (TLHRC) Tuesday, January 27, 2009 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM B-318 Rayburn HOB TLHRC HEARING: OPENING STATEMENT The Status of Human Rights in China: The U.N. Universal Periodic Review (UPR) Good morning. I want to thank my colleague and fellow Co-Chair, Congressman Frank Wolf, and the staff of the Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, for bringing together today's incredible panel of experts to talk about the current status of human rights in China. I regret that I need to attend a Budget Committee hearing on the worsening state of the American economy. So, I would like to take a couple of minutes to make a brief statement and pose a couple of questions in advance of the panelists' presentations. The last in-depth look at China's human rights record by the Human Rights Commission happened during the period leading up to and during the Summer Olympics. A great deal has happened inside China since then - and I wish it were good news. Unfortunately, with few exceptions, it is not. Last summer, in the period leading up to the Olympics, the Chinese government: • Severely tightened restrictions on human rights defenders; • Disrupted and cracked down on activities by civil society; • Created new obstacles in the ability to carry out protests or to file complaints by ordinary Chinese citizens; and • Increased the security controls on key regions and minorities, in particular exercising extreme control over Tibetans and the Uyghurs. During the Olympics, I was especially engaged on the status of leading human rights defender, Hu Jia, and his wife Zeng Jinyan and their infant daughter. In August 2007, Hu was one of 42 Chinese intellectuals and activists who co-signed an open letter calling for greater attention to human rights in China. In September 2007, Hu and lawyer Teng Biao published another open letter, -The Real China and the Olympics,- assessing specific human rights concerns inside China within the context of the Beijing Games and China's promises to the international community and to the Chinese people. On December 27, 2007, Hu was detained prior to being formally arrested on January 30, 2008. He was sentenced on April 3, 2008, to 3-1/2 years in prison after being found guilty of -inciting subversion of state power.- His wife, Zeng Jinyan, was under constant surveillance at her Beijing house at the start of the Olympic Games, but she had remained in touch with other Chinese activists and some reporters. On the second day of the Games, she and her infant daughter disappeared. No more communication. No word of their whereabouts. I immediately called the U.S. Embassy in Beijing asking that they inquire about her whereabouts and well-being, which I'm happy to report they did. But the Chinese authorities did not respond to U.S. Ambassador Randt's inquiries anymore than they responded to mine. A few days later, at its daily press conference, the US embassy spokesperson raised Zeng's disappearance, along with several other cases, noting that the Chinese authorities had not been forthcoming with any information. Soon afterwards, we were informed that she and her daughter had been held throughout the Olympics at a hotel in Dalian in Liaoning Province to prevent her from having any contact with or speaking to journalists in China covering the Games. It's my understanding that Hu Jia has since been moved to a prison closer to Beijing so that Zeng may visit him more often and monitor his health. I want to thank Ambassador Randt and the staff at our embassy in Beijing for being so responsive to my calls during that period. And I hope our panelists can shed some light on the current status of Hu Jia and his family. More recently, on December 10th, on the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, over 300 Chinese intellectuals and human rights defenders released a statement calling for more political reform and democracy in China. The group called their statement Charter ‘08 - a reference to Charter 77, a document issued by Czech political dissidents during the Cold War. The Chinese government responded to the document, which has now been signed by thousands of people through the Internet, by detaining and harassing the key authors, including Liu Xiaobo. Congressman Wolf and I immediately sent a letter to our embassy in Beijing in support of Liu and the Charter '08 members. I would appreciate our panelists describing the importance of the Charter '08 document, with respect to China's human rights situation, and what suggestions you might have about how the U.S. and the international community might monitor and respond to its proposed rights and reforms. Again, I very much regret that I can't stay to listen and learn more from your testimony. Please rest assured that I will follow-up with Congressman Wolf and the Commission's staff regarding any information you might share this morning on these matters.
01.27.2009	Senators Edward M. Kennedy, John F. Kerry, Jack Reed, and Sheldon Whitehouse and Representatives Barney Frank, James P. McGovern and Patrick J. Kennedy today commended Congress for the passage of legislation by the United States Senate to support the protection and community-based management of Taunton River as part of the Wild & Scenic River system. Senator Kennedy's spokesperson Melissa Wagoner said, -Senator Kennedy is extremely pleased that Taunton River will now be part of the national Wild & Scenic River system. The river's unique history and biodiversity eminently justify this national recognition. Many volunteers in the cities and towns in the Taunton River watershed have worked hard for this day, and they deserve great credit for this important achievement.- -The Taunton River's natural beauty, important ecology and cultural heritage make it one of our state's most treasured natural resources. It is the longest coastal river in New England without dams, making it a haven for countless species of fish and other wildlife. The communities and associations have done a great job of maintaining and preserving the river over the years and now this legislation will permanently protect it for future generations,- said Senator Kerry. Congressman Barney Frank said, -The people of Southeastern Massachusetts owe Senator Kennedy a great debt for having this bill pass the Senate. Since we were able to pass the Taunton River bill in the House last year - over partisan opposition - I am confident that we will be able to do so again this year. I am also pleased that we now have a President who will sign this important bill into law.- -I'm very pleased that the Taunton River is coming closer to receiving this designation,- Rep. McGovern said. -The communities along the Taunton deserve enormous credit for all of their hard work and advocacy on this issue. I will continue to work with my House colleagues to bring this process to a successful conclusion.- -The Taunton River is Narragansett Bay's second largest tributary and is vital to the environmental health of the Bay. By securing this -Wild and Scenic- designation we will protect the Taunton River and take steps to improve ecosystems that are critically important to the region,- said Senator Jack Reed (D-RI). -The Taunton River is part of the larger Narragansett and Bristol Bay watersheds and its health directly affects Narragansett Bay and Rhode Island's precious coastal areas,- said Whitehouse, a member of the Environment and Public Works (EPW) Committee. -This measure ensures this beautiful stretch of river will finally be protected, as it deserves to be, for people to enjoy long into the future.- -Today is a victory for every community that depends on the Taunton River and its surrounding waterways. This designation will ensure environmental and ecological protection of the river and will help encourage economic development throughout the region. I commend Senators Kennedy, Kerry, Whitehouse and Reed and Representatives Frank and McGovern, for their leadership on this significant environmental conservation accomplishment,- said Congressman Patrick J. Kennedy. The Taunton River is the longest coastal river in New England without dams. It supports 45 species of fish and many species of shellfish, including seven types of freshwater mussels, and its archaeological treasures date back 10,000 years. The watershed is a habitat for 154 species of birds, including 12 rare types. It is also home to the river otter, mink, gray fox, and deer. The legislation designates as -Wild and Scenic- the Taunton River between the confluence of Town River and Matfield River in Bridgewater to Mount Hope Bay in Fall River. Federal funds available under the designation will help protect the river. Kennedy and Kerry introduced legislation in 1999 with former Congressman Joe Moakley (D-Mass.) to authorize a study of the Taunton River for consideration for a Wild and Scenic River Designation, and that legislation was signed into law on October 19th, 2000. The Study identified six special values relating to the river: Agriculture; Ecology and Biodiversity; Estuary; Fisheries; History and Archaeology; and Recreation and Scenery. The Taunton River Stewardship Council will serve as the principal partner of the National Park Service in implementing and overseeing the Wild and Scenic River designation. The Council will have representatives of the towns of Bridgewater, Halifax, Middleborough, Raynham, Berkley, Freetown, Dighton, Somerset, the cities of Taunton and Fall River, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Southeastern Regional Planning and Economic Development District, the Wildlands Trust of Southeastern Massachusetts, the Natural Resources Trust of Bridgewater, the Taunton River Watershed Alliance, Save the Bay, the Nature Conservancy, and the Council Oak Wampanoags. The National Park Service will implement its responsibilities for Wild and Scenic River management in consultation and coordination with the Council. All expenditures of any federal appropriations resulting from the designation will be coordinated and reviewed with the Council.
01.27.2009	M. Speaker. By direction of the Committee on Rules I call up House Resolution 53 and ask for its immediate consideration. For the purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from California, Mr. Dreier. All time yielded during consideration of the rule is for debate only. I yield myself such time as I may consume. I also ask unanimous consent that all Members be given five legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks on House Resolution 53. M. Speaker. H. Res. 53 provides for initial consideration of H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act of 2009. The rule provides for two hours of general debate to be controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services. After the general debate there will be no further consideration of the bill except pursuant to a subsequent rule. Let me be clear - this rule provides for general debate only. The Rules Committee is meeting M. Speaker. By direction of the Committee on Rules I call up House Resolution 53 and ask for its immediate consideration. For the purpose of debate only, I yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from California, Mr. Dreier. All time yielded during consideration of the rule is for debate only. I yield myself such time as I may consume. I also ask unanimous consent that all Members be given five legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks on House Resolution 53. M. Speaker. H. Res. 53 provides for initial consideration of H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act of 2009. The rule provides for two hours of general debate to be controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services. After the general debate there will be no further consideration of the bill except pursuant to a subsequent rule. Let me be clear - this rule provides for general debate only. The Rules Committee is meeting [[right now]] to consider amendments, and tomorrow the House will vote on several amendments - Democrat and Republican - to the bill. M. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act. I commend Chairman Frank and the Financial Services Committee for their steadfast commitment to reviving our nation's economy. Last September, the Bush Administration sounded the alarm that our financial system was dangerously close to collapse. Treasury Secretary Paulson came to Congress with an astronomical funding request that he said would free up the credit markets and prevent a bad situation from getting worse. The Bush Administration asked for a $700 billion blank check with no strings attached. Over the next few weeks, Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Frank and the House Democratic Leadership, along with Senate leaders and then Senator-Obama, worked with the Bush Administration on a compromise that became the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP. The TARP provided $700 billion in two stages - $350 billion up front and another $350 billion when requested by the Administration. I opposed the Administration's original request for a blank check, but I voted for the compromise because I took Secretary Paulson at his word that this money would be spent where it was needed. Specifically, funding would go to homeowners and banks that were feeling the pressures of a tightening credit market. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration gave most of this money to the big banks who continue to sit on too much of the money instead of lending it out to other institutions and individuals. The stunning fact is that of the $250 billion provided in direct assistance to banks, only $62.5 billion has been spent. That means that the banks are still sitting on $187.5 billion. That is simply not good enough. M. Speaker, this economic crisis is real, this housing crisis is real - and it's not getting better. One in ten American homeowners with a mortgage - one in ten - were either behind on payments or in foreclosure at the end of September. Predictions in December were that more than 8 million foreclosures - 16% of all U.S. mortgages - would occur over the next four years if nothing is done. That's quite a record for the outgoing Administration. Now, Chairman Frank will be the first to say that we don't know how bad the economy would be if the first $350 billion of the TARP wasn't spent by the Bush Administration. But we do know it could have been spent more wisely. The American public simply doesn't trust the current Administration to do the right thing - and rightfully so. But this new Congress - through the bill we will consider later today and tomorrow - will attempt to right the many wrongs surrounding the TARP. M. Speaker, we not only need better oversight on the second set of TARP funds, we also need to provide a real blueprint for how these funds are spent. The Bush Administration clearly failed on this point, but H.R. 384 is a step in the right direction. While I hope the Senate will pass this bill and that President-elect Obama will sign it after he takes office, it's important to note that we in the House at least signal our intent on how this funding should be spent. President-Elect Obama has said that he will actually listen to and consult with Congress on important issues. And won't that be a welcome change from the current administration? I strongly disagree with those who say that President-elect Obama simply requested the funds but doesn't have a plan on how to spend these funds wisely. The incoming National Economic Advisor, Larry Summers, recently sent a letter outlining President-elect Obama's priorities and expectations for the second set of TARP funds. Those priorities are reflected in the bill we will consider today and tomorrow. I ask unanimous consent to insert Secretary Summers' letter into the record following my remarks. While we should take President-elect Obama and his advisors at their word, we should not do so blindly. Trust, but verify - that is what we will do. M. Speaker, my constituents are frustrated and frightened. Many are afraid they will lose their homes, that their lives will be turned upside down. These are good, honest, hard working people who have fallen on hard times. Some tell me they have been to their lenders, many times, in an effort to prevent foreclosure, only to be told there is no help available - simply wait to default. That's not right and, with this bill, we will address this problem. Our economy won't get better overnight, but it can get worse. This funding is needed, but we cannot release it without a real plan on how it will be spent. The economy is not just about banks and investment houses. It's not just about Wall Street. It's about the small businesses and community lenders on Main Street. It's about the families and individuals trying to make a living and improve their lives on the side streets. Allowing banks to hoard taxpayer money - as the Bush Administration has done - doesn't help the people in Worcester and Attleboro and Fall River. But dedicating funds to help the mortgage crisis and move money through the credit markets is exactly what is needed. And this bill does that. I strongly support Chairman Frank's bill and I support the incoming Administration's stated goals. I urge my colleagues to vote for this bill and I reserve the balance of my time. to consider amendments, and tomorrow the House will vote on several amendments - Democrat and Republican - to the bill. M. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act. I commend Chairman Frank and the Financial Services Committee for their steadfast commitment to reviving our nation's economy. Last September, the Bush Administration sounded the alarm that our financial system was dangerously close to collapse. Treasury Secretary Paulson came to Congress with an astronomical funding request that he said would free up the credit markets and prevent a bad situation from getting worse. The Bush Administration asked for a $700 billion blank check with no strings attached. Over the next few weeks, Speaker Pelosi, Chairman Frank and the House Democratic Leadership, along with Senate leaders and then Senator-Obama, worked with the Bush Administration on a compromise that became the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP. The TARP provided $700 billion in two stages - $350 billion up front and another $350 billion when requested by the Administration. I opposed the Administration's original request for a blank check, but I voted for the compromise because I took Secretary Paulson at his word that this money would be spent where it was needed. Specifically, funding would go to homeowners and banks that were feeling the pressures of a tightening credit market. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration gave most of this money to the big banks who continue to sit on too much of the money instead of lending it out to other institutions and individuals. The stunning fact is that of the $250 billion provided in direct assistance to banks, only $62.5 billion has been spent. That means that the banks are still sitting on $187.5 billion. That is simply not good enough. M. Speaker, this economic crisis is real, this housing crisis is real - and it's not getting better. One in ten American homeowners with a mortgage - one in ten - were either behind on payments or in foreclosure at the end of September. Predictions in December were that more than 8 million foreclosures - 16% of all U.S. mortgages - would occur over the next four years if nothing is done. That's quite a record for the outgoing Administration. Now, Chairman Frank will be the first to say that we don't know how bad the economy would be if the first $350 billion of the TARP wasn't spent by the Bush Administration. But we do know it could have been spent more wisely. The American public simply doesn't trust the current Administration to do the right thing - and rightfully so. But this new Congress - through the bill we will consider later today and tomorrow - will attempt to right the many wrongs surrounding the TARP. M. Speaker, we not only need better oversight on the second set of TARP funds, we also need to provide a real blueprint for how these funds are spent. The Bush Administration clearly failed on this point, but H.R. 384 is a step in the right direction. While I hope the Senate will pass this bill and that President-elect Obama will sign it after he takes office, it's important to note that we in the House at least signal our intent on how this funding should be spent. President-Elect Obama has said that he will actually listen to and consult with Congress on important issues. And won't that be a welcome change from the current administration? I strongly disagree with those who say that President-elect Obama simply requested the funds but doesn't have a plan on how to spend these funds wisely. The incoming National Economic Advisor, Larry Summers, recently sent a letter outlining President-elect Obama's priorities and expectations for the second set of TARP funds. Those priorities are reflected in the bill we will consider today and tomorrow. I ask unanimous consent to insert Secretary Summers' letter into the record following my remarks. While we should take President-elect Obama and his advisors at their word, we should not do so blindly. Trust, but verify - that is what we will do. M. Speaker, my constituents are frustrated and frightened. Many are afraid they will lose their homes, that their lives will be turned upside down. These are good, honest, hard working people who have fallen on hard times. Some tell me they have been to their lenders, many times, in an effort to prevent foreclosure, only to be told there is no help available - simply wait to default. That's not right and, with this bill, we will address this problem. Our economy won't get better overnight, but it can get worse. This funding is needed, but we cannot release it without a real plan on how it will be spent. The economy is not just about banks and investment houses. It's not just about Wall Street. It's about the small businesses and community lenders on Main Street. It's about the families and individuals trying to make a living and improve their lives on the side streets. Allowing banks to hoard taxpayer money - as the Bush Administration has done - doesn't help the people in Worcester and Attleboro and Fall River. But dedicating funds to help the mortgage crisis and move money through the credit markets is exactly what is needed. And this bill does that. I strongly support Chairman Frank's bill and I support the incoming Administration's stated goals. I urge my colleagues to vote for this bill and I reserve the balance of my time.
01.06.2009	January 6th: I believe the international community must press for an immediate cease-fire. A cease-fire would allow humanitarian assistance to be delivered most effectively and facilitate the revitalization of the peace process. I also believe that the United States has been dis-engaged from this process for far too long. President-elect Obama should indicate that he will appoint a Special Envoy to the region to revitalize stalled peace negotiations and to demonstrate the United States' commitment to finding a long-term two-state solution. Every nation, including Israel, has the right to defend itself from attack. Hamas's continued rocket attacks against Israeli civilians are unacceptable. Hamas should have agreed to extend the recently expired cease-fire. They must also recognize Israel's right to exist and drop their objection to negotiate a two-state solution. January 9th: Mr. Speaker, I will vote in support of H. Res. 34, the Gaza Conflict Resolution. Certainly, everyone recognizes Israel's legitimate right to defend itself, the need for a ceasefire, and the demand that Hamas stop its rocket attacks against Israel, recognize the right of Israel to exist, and join the rest of the Palestinian people in negotiations with Israel to reach agreement on a two-state solution to the Middle East conflict and establish peace for all the peoples of the region. Earlier this month, I issued a statement outlining these same key concerns. However, I would like to clearly express my frustration and dissatisfaction with what has not been included in this resolution. I strongly believe the resolution should have included and expressed support for the concerns raised by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and United Nations field staff on the ground inside Gaza about potential violations of international humanitarian law (IHL) by both parties. I am particularly concerned about potential violations of IHL by Israel because I am such a strong supporter of Israel. I am also disappointed that the resolution did not reference the resolution passed by the U.N. Security Council on January 8th, calling for an immediate ceasefire. While the UNSC resolution is flawed by its failure to condemn Hamas rocket attacks, it is an important call for a cessation of hostilities, which H. Res. 34 also demands. Finally, I am deeply saddened and disturbed by the increasing toll on Israeli and Gazan citizens as this most recent escalation in the conflict over Gaza continues. Military operations must stop; the rocket attacks must stop; and all regional and international actors must engage Hamas and Israel to agree to a durable and verifiable cessation of hostilities.
