04.18.2019	An African-American World War I veteran and Pine Bluff native, Leroy Johnston (right) is shown with two of his brothers, Drs. D.A.E. (left) and L.H. (center) Johnston. Rep. Hill and his staff members were instrumental in ensuring that Johnston’s finally received his long overdue medals. WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Representative French Hill (AR-02), Representative Emanuel Cleaver (MO-05), and Representative Sam Graves (MO-06) released the following joint statement after introducing H.R. 2249, the World War I Valor Medals Review Act, a bipartisan bill that would review the military records of minority service members of the Armed Forces during World War I to determine if they should be awarded the Medal of Honor: “In October 2018, I awarded the family of Sgt. Leroy Johnston medals he earned but did not receive,” said Congressman Hill. “Like many during WWI, Sgt. Johnston was a victim of discrimination. Today, we have an opportunity to correct this injustice for countless American heroes and their families. I’m proud to work with my House colleagues to ensure that all minorities who served in WWI are honored with the recognition they deserve.” “This piece of legislation has been a long time coming,” said Congressman Cleaver. “For over a century, American heroes who served in WWI have gone unrecognized for their courageous and selfless acts during the Great War strictly because of America’s sad history of discrimination. With this bill, we have an opportunity to right this wrong for service members who are deserving of our military’s highest honor and the families who are entitled to their relative’s story. I’m thankful for the bipartisan support we have garnered and will continue working to ensure these veterans receive the recognition they deserve.” “The freedoms we enjoy here at home are made possible by the men and women who put themselves in harm’s way to defend liberty,” said Congressman Graves. “Every veteran who served honorably and whose actions warrant the Medal of Honor should be recognized regardless of their background or the color of their skin. It is important that we continue our commitment to those who have given so much in defense of our country, and I am proud to work with my colleagues in advancing this important legislation.” Background: The full text of the World War I Valor Medals Review Act can be found HERE. A Senate companion bill has been introduced by Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Senator Roy Blunt (R-MO). (Courtesy of Senators Van Hollen and Blunt) The World War I Valor Medals Review Act would require the Department of Defense to review the service records of African American, Asian American, Hispanic American, Jewish American, and Native American war veterans who were awarded the Distinguished Service Cross or Navy Cross, or who received a recommendation for the Medal of Honor for an action that occurred between April 6, 1917, and November 11, 1918. It would also require a review of the service record of veterans awarded the Croix de Guerre with Palm by the Government of France. This review would be conducted in coordination with the Valor Medals Review Task Force, which will raise private funds to complete the project. The bill authorizes the Secretaries of the Army and Navy to recommend veterans determined to merit the Medal of Honor as a result of the review to the President. It also waives statutory time limits which would preclude such a recommendation being made. This bill is endorsed by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, American Legion, American GI Forum, and Congressional Black Caucus Veteran’s Braintrust.
04.16.2019	(From left to right: Dr. Michael Lomax, President and CEO, United Negro College Fund; Little Rock Mayor, Frank Scott, Jr.; Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson; O. Jerome Green, Esq., President, Shorter College; Congressman French Hill; Regina Favors, President, Arkansas Baptist College; Dr. Roderick Smothers, President, Philander Smith College; Dr. Laurence Alexander, Chancellor, University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff; Jonathan Holifield, Executive Director of the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities) WASHINGTON D.C. — On Monday, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) hosted the 2019 Arkansas Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Summit at the Mosaic Templars Cultural Center in Little Rock, Arkansas. Over 75 participants attended the summit including Jonathan Holifield, Executive Director of the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities; Dr. Michael Lomax, President and CEO, United Negro College Fund; Little Rock Mayor Frank Scott Jr.; and Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson. Congressman Hill, who serves as the Vice Chairman of the Congressional HBCU Caucus, hosted the summit to bring business, academic, nonprofit, and government leaders together to promote the value of HBCUs and discuss their importance in Arkansas and across the country. Representatives from Arkansas’s four Historically Black Colleges and Universities–Arkansas Baptist College, Philander Smith College, Shorter College, and the University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff–attended the summit to discuss the long-term sustainability and growth of Arkansas’s HBCUs. “Arkansas is proud to celebrate the rich legacy and expectant future of HBCUs,” said Congressman Hill. “I commend all the educators and administrators who are making a difference in the lives of our young people and preparing them to succeed in a rapidly changing work environment. In Arkansas, HBCUs have served thousands of young and adult students and helped them achieve their dreams of a college education. Together, our community leaders are proving that education is one of the best investments Arkansas can make. It is my hope that the ideas and strategies shared during this summit will galvanize our efforts to secure the future of our youth and the institutions that serve them.” “The Summit was a seminal event to highlight the competitive advantages HBCUs provide the state and people of Arkansas," said Johnathan Holifield, Executive Director of the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. "Thanks to Rep. Hill’s leadership, today, government, private industry, philanthropy and HBCUs are poised to jointly develop and execute against plans to further leverage these institutions to further meet the needs of people and to attract additional resources to the state.” “HBCUs have played a vital and unique role in our nation’s higher education system for more than a century. I will continue to support their mission to ensure students have the tools to help prepare them for success. I applaud Congressman Hill for hosting this event to emphasize the great work of Arkansas’s HBCUs,” said Senator John Boozman, a member of the HBCU Caucus. (Participants listen to education leaders during the 2019 Arkansas HBCU Summit at the Mosaic Templars Cultural Center in Little Rock, Arkansas.)
04.11.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) delivered the keynote address at the Innovative Payments Association annual conference held in Washington, D.C. (pictured below). Congressman Hill has been focused on strengthening financial technology and appreciates the Congressional support by House Financial Services Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Ranking Member Patrick McHenry (R-NC) to promote financial innovation. Highlights of his remarks, as prepared, are included below: Strong History Working in FinTech The landscape for financial services has changed substantially. Between 2010 and 2017, more than 3,300 new technology-based firms were founded. This growth has coined the term, “FinTech” which may be a new catchy, buzzword, but I’ve actually been engaged in financial technology innovation since the earliest days of my career. As a college graduate, in the 1970s, I survived mastering Fortran in a giant university data center. Big data then meant big boxes of cardboard punch cards. I later migrated into learning the BASIC language which enhanced bond portfolio assessments and worked with budget and financial statement consolidation. In 1980, I was selected to lead the founding of a payments system innovator in Texas founded by nine of the top ten banks in the state. PULSE, an ATM/POS changed the face of the very business-oriented unit banks in the state of Texas as it offered a shared way to attract retail customers across the state and Southwest. Pulse is now owned by Discover. Furthermore, during my recent leadership of a community bank, I was proud to build an online brand and nationally competitive Health Savings Account product through the use of Google Ads. Creation of FinTech Focus in Congress These past experiences will be helpful as the House Financial Services Committee has focused on the FinTech industry. Both Chairman Waters and Ranking Member McHenry have underscored the importance new space. Ms. Waters was quoted in her policy speech on January 16, 2019 stating, “One emerging area the Financial Services Committee will be paying very close attention to is the growth of financial technology, or so-called 'FinTech' firms. As Americans are banking and accessing credit in new ways, it is important that we encourage responsible innovation with the appropriate safeguards in place to protect consumers and without displacing community banks and credit unions.” In response, Ranking Member McHenry requested a hearing on the regulation of FinTech in a letter he wrote to the Chairwoman on January 23, 2019. In anticipation of the new focus, I’ve been on, what I like to call, a “FinTech fact-finding mission.” I’ve been reading various reports and white papers and have been fortunate to travel to different parts of the country meeting with key FinTech stakeholders. Some of the rewarding visits are with the amazing entrepreneurs and intra-prenuers that are advancing change at incubators and accelerators from Little Rock to Boston. They are classic problem solvers that could be working at a startup or in a sandbox at one of our most successful firms. I’m sure many in this room are familiar, but the Treasury Department issued their “Nonbank financials, FinTech and Innovation,” report last summer. It’s a comprehensive report that outlines recommendations and suggestions for ways to maintain and enhance America’s financial technology competitive edge. After reading the report and speaking with various stakeholders, common FinTech themes keep rising to the surface that I hope will lead our discussion. These common themes center around federal legislative and regulatory approaches that are necessary to foster innovation for both disruptive innovators and incumbent financial players. The ultimate beneficiary is the American consumer. We want to encourage innovation among RegTech, FinTech, InsureTech, InvestTech and any other “tech” I might have missed, with an eye toward better consumer experiences and a lower cost of compliance. Obviously, payments, business, and consumer lending, along with investment and insurance dominate the FinTech industry. But it also includes the future of blockchain and use of tokenization. As you can see, it’s a broad area and your views are key as Congress develops its priorities. FinTech Payments Strategy Specifically, as it relates to the payments industry, I know we’ve been having ongoing conversations about a variety of different issues. Recently, I was in Atlanta to meet with many of the payment’s stakeholders. In fact, many of the people I met were with are in the audience today, including Robert Skiba with InComm, who currently serves as your Chairman. From my time starting PULSE, technology has infinitely advanced the payments industry. Innovations spanning the spectrum from incumbents to FinTechs are reshaping the payments landscape, boosting customer expectations, and intensifying competition globally. The payments industry is attracting more growth and investment than ever before. For example, in 2017, payments received $2.7 billion in venture capital and increased over seven times to more than $15 billion for just the first half of 2018. One final area that is especially relevant today, includes the need for the U.S. to develop a solution for the payments industry that would facilitate real-time settlement–as encouraged by the Treasury FinTech report. Such a system would create a level playing field for all financial institutions to access innovating technologies and payment services. If America wants to remain relevant and competitive in this industry, we must act soon. The Treasury report recommends the Federal Reserve lead the charge in creating a faster payment system. The Fed responded by inviting public comment on this type of system. Comments were due in December and the final rule has not yet been released. I hope to work with both the Treasury and the Federal Reserve as part of my role in Congress to find a workable solution that will benefit all financial institutions. America has the greatest financial industry in the world and I look forward to working with Congress to making sure this continues.
04.11.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — This week, an article published by the Daily Wire featured Congressman French Hill's (AR-02) "Future Leaders Council." This civics education program was started by Congressman Hill in 2018 to introduce central Arkansas 5th grade students to a deeper understanding of our Constitution and the values and principles that it supports. Rep. Hill pictured with Arkansas Secretary of State John Thurston and students from his Future Leaders Council in February of this year. The full article is copied below. Arkansas Congressman French Hill Provides A Great Example of What Civics Education Can Look Like The Daily Wire Josh Hammer April 8, 2019 In a Daily Wire op-ed and appearance on "Fox & Friends" last week, I argued that America's crisis of civics — perhaps best encapsulated by the scandalously low percentage of Americans who can even name a single branch of the federal government — poses an acute concern for the preservation of the republic. The Constitution's Bill of Rights is also important, but, as I argued on Fox, it is constitutional structure that is paramount: "Every Constitution Day I hear all sorts of paeans, people talking about the Bill of Rights and how the Bill of Rights is the anchor of all that we are great. And look, I love the First Amendment; I love freedom of speech, freedom of religion. I love the Second Amendment, the right to keep and bear arms. I even love the Third Amendment’s prohibition against quartering of soldiers in the homes, okay? "But what famously makes America great is actually not the Bill of Rights. Justice Antonin Scalia, the conservative icon on the court for decades, was fond of saying how every tinpot dictator could have a Bill of Rights. And sure enough, the Stalinist constitution in the Soviet Union in 1936, purported to have a bill of rights. But as Scalia said, it’s actually structure that dictates destiny. And insofar as we’re not even naming the three branches of government, it is the separation powers of those three branches that secure liberty by diffusing power. It is our federalist system of dual spheres of sovereignty between the states and federal government that secure power." We risk losing a basic knowledge of — and, more meaningfully, an appreciation of — that constitutional structure at our own profound peril. One such civics education program that ought to serve as a model for others is the "Future Leaders Council," which was started by Rep. French Hill (R-AR) in 2018. Hill, who represents a Little Rock-area congressional district, appears to be a rare federal legislator — similar to Sen. Ben Sasse (R-NE) — who appreciates the indispensable nature of civics education to the preservation of the American experiment. According to the congressman's Future Leaders Council press release from one year ago: "During the inaugural class of the Future Leaders Council, the students worked closely with Rep. Hill during quarterly meetings between July 2017 and March 2018. The discussion featured topics including the U.S. Constitution, federalism, checks and balances, and how a bill becomes a law. The students heard from guest speakers, including Arkansas State Representative Doug House and Member of Parliament Rehman Chishti from the United Kingdom. "The students also held a 'mock congress,' in which they debated bill ideas and drafted legislation. Their bills, the Stronger Teachers Act of 2018 and the Fair Pay for the Armed Services in the Republic (FAIR) Act, demonstrated their commitment to quality education and their appreciation for our servicemen and servicewomen." The Daily Wire spoke today with Steven Smith, Rep. Hill's communications director, and Chloe Maxwell, a staffer based out of the congressman's Little Rock office who was instrumental in the initial formation of the Future Leaders Council. According to Maxwell, the Future Leaders Council meets four times a year during participants' fifth grade year. Classes are held on Saturday mornings in Little Rock, and each participating fifth grader is given a copy of the Constitution. Students are expected to read the actual constitutional provisions relevant to the discussion topic of the week, and are also exposed to historical campaign posters and other ancillary materials that serve a pedagogical function. For the most recent year, the Future Leaders Council had about 35-40 total applicants, and Hill's office finalized a group of 15 precocious participants. They break into mock congressional committees and draft bills that they would like to see enacted into law. According to Maxwell, there does not appear to be a similar program that any other U.S. congressman currently sponsors in his/her home district. Reached for comment by The Daily Wire, Rep. Hill said the following: "Our founding fathers believed that an educated population was essential to ensuring the survival of our Republic. My Future Leaders Council was created in this spirit to introduce young students to a deeper understanding of our Constitution and the values and principles that it supports. "As a father of two children, I know that fifth graders are at the point in their lives where they begin to pay attention to the world of politics. The Future Leaders Council helps provide a road map for young students in central Arkansas to navigate important ideas like checks and balances, federalism, and the rule of law. Having a better understanding of how the Constitution impacts their lives will empower these students to be a positive force in our community." Amen. With any luck, perhaps other congressmen may follow Rep. Hill's lead.
04.09.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) sent a letter to President Trump ahead of his meeting today with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, calling on him to raise concerns about the plight of Christian minorities in Egypt. “The United States and Egypt are critically important partners in the fight against terrorism in the Sinai Peninsula and throughout the region,” said Congressman Hill. “I acknowledge and support our partnership and friendship with Egypt, but I believe that more can always be done in the area of protecting religious freedom and human rights.” The full letter can be found HERE and is copied below. Dear Mr. President: I write today ahead of your upcoming visit with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to raise concerns about the plight of Christian minorities in Egypt. The United States and Egypt are critically important partners in the fight against terrorism in the Sinai Peninsula and throughout the region. Egypt’s role at Camp David has led to some of the closest ties between the United States, Egypt, and Israel in our history. Who would think that Egypt and Israel would partner to fight terrorism in the Sinai or attempt to be arbiters together in the Gaza Strip? I acknowledge and support our partnership and friendship with Egypt, but I believe that more can always be done in the area of protecting religious freedom and human rights. I have briefed the Ambassador at Large for Religious Freedom, Sam Brownback, on my interest in Egypt, and he is supportive of my efforts. I am the author of a House Resolution (H.Res.673) related to the treatment of Coptic Christians in Egypt. There is currently a culture of impunity in Egypt’s rural communities when Coptic Christians are attacked by their fellow Egyptians. The attackers face few or no legal repercussions. This Resolution has 47 bipartisan cosponsors, including ten members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. The State Department’s 2018 religious freedom report on Egypt mentions Minya Province more than any other. Minya is where the most recent, and some of the deadliest, attacks on Copts have occurred. In December 2018, two Coptic construction workers were murdered by an armed police guard outside of a church in Minya, and last week the police guard was found guilty of the murder. This conviction is an important step, and justice must continue to be achieved for all crimes committed against Christians. I applaud the actions that the Egyptian government has taken against terrorist groups that have perpetrated some of these atrocities, but I continue to have concerns when radical Islamists who are common Egyptians attack Coptic Christians or destroy their property. We must continue to work with the Egyptian government to ensure that the Christian population has the same protection under the law as others. I have great respect for Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, and I applaud the changes and message that he has made in the area of religious tolerance. He continues to say and do the right things at the top level of government. This includes having a good relationship with the Coptic Pope, attending mass on multiple occasions, reconstructing churches, constructing the largest Christian Cathedral in the Middle East in the “new” administrative center, and holding terrorists accountable for their atrocities. However, I believe there is more to do, and as the second highest receiver of annual American military aid in the world, the United States Government must use the tools we have to hold our allies, like Egypt, to a higher standard if they are to continue to receive our aid. Therefore, I request that you discuss the plight of Coptic Christians in Egypt when you meet with President el-Sisi tomorrow. Respect for human rights and religious freedom is a fundamental American position, and I share the view of President Ronald Reagan who said, “Respect for human rights is not social work; it is not merely an act of compassion. It is the first obligation of government and the source of its legitimacy.” Thank you for your attention to this matter, and please let me know if there is anything the Congress can do to assist your efforts. I look forward to working with you to strengthen the friendship between the United States and Egypt. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress Background: On January 16, 2019, Congressman Hill introduced a resolution, H.Res.49, expressing support for Coptic Christians and religious liberty in Egypt. The full text of H.Res.49 can be found HERE. H.Res.49 acknowledges the importance of the United States-Egypt partnership in advancing our common interests, recognizes Egypt’s need for certain government reforms, and calls on the Egyptian government to end the culture of impunity and make examples by arresting, prosecuting, and convicting those responsible for attacks on Christians. It also calls on the government to hold those local government officials accountable who fail to enforce the law.
04.05.2019	The Truth About the Violence Against Women Act: April 5, 2019 Rep. French Hill In 1994, Congress passed the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) with bipartisan support. This legislation has played a valuable role in combating violence and providing resources that support victims. VAWA was reauthorized by bipartisan majorities in Congress in 2000, 2005, and 2013. I have consistently supported the funding of VAWA programs because all victims of violence deserve resources that help to protect and keep them safe. In February of this year, the VAWA programs expired. Instead of continuing the bipartisan tradition of reauthorizing VAWA, House Democratic leaders have sabotaged this legislation and are forcing a vote this week on a partisan version of this bill purely for political gain. This new authorization contains a laundry list of liberal proposals that could put victims in greater danger. This includes a new provision that would implement “alternative justice responses” for sexual assault and domestic violence cases where a victim and an abuser would be put in the same room together. Allowing this only re-victimizes the abused individual. The new authorization would allow male prisoners to be kept with the female population, and have males be placed in women's protective shelters. Additionally, the new authorization strips religious freedom protections that would allow private religious agencies to continue serving victimized women. The right way to proceed on this legislation is to engage in a bipartisan process to shape and update the original 1994 law. That’s why I cosponsored Representative Elise Stefanik’s (NY-R) clean, one-year extension of VAWA’s provisions that expired in February 2019. This would give members of Congress time to negotiate a bipartisan bill in good faith. All women, like my wife and daughter, deserve legislation that protects them and their well-being, not partisan gimmicks.
04.04.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) recently joined Maria Bartiromo on the Fox Business Network to discuss his visit to the southwest border at McAllen, Texas, to investigate the ongoing immigration crisis, as well as the latest news on U.S. trade talks with China. Key excerpts below: Touring the Southwest Border in McAllen, Texas "This was my fifth trip to the border in the last three and a half years. This [trip] was the most compelling as it relates to [the border] emergency. We visited with Catholic charities, we visited with border patrol and there is no doubt that they are overwhelmed by the hundreds of thousands of people coming across the border . . . [N]ow we are confronted with Central American families coming across the border in record numbers and we just don't have the staff to process them or places to hold them. So they're now being released directly into the United States." Providing Resources to Border Security and Commerce ". . . [W]e need to divert resources to the border to help [CBP] do their job [and protect] the billions in cross-border commerce. We need FEMA at the border to help with this humanitarian crisis. We need contractors to help us with the humanitarian crisis and let our custom officers and border patrol go back to their core mission. But I believe it would be a mistake to stop the trade flow going across the southern border. I think that would be an economic mistake for the country. We need to treat this just like Jeh Johnson, [President] Obama's Secretary of Homeland Security, and current Secretary of Homeland Security Nielsen say, we need to react to it as if it were a Category 5 hurricane." Enforcing Trade Concessions from China "I think we have obviously a major trade issue [with China] but we are joined in that trade concern by the EU, Japan, and the other G7 countries, to work together and open Chinese markets, to rein in excesses when it comes to state-owned enterprises, to block their ability to steal intellectual property and compel Americans to share technology. That's at the heart of what the president is trying to do with this agreement . . . [T]his negotiation is 20 years overdue and so important since China joined the [World Trade Organization]. We need that enforcement. Simply buying more American goods and services is not good enough. We need structure reforms"
04.04.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — On Wednesday, an editorial published by the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette highlighted Congressman French Hill's Golden Fleece Award—a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The editorial stated, "A few years back, the Congressman from central Arkansas, French Hill, rebooted the Golden Fleece Award. Few awards needed such a boot, maybe even giving one on occasion in the back of the pants to deserving government types. For when it comes to fleecing taxpayers, the federal government knows from it." Read the full editorial copied below. Target-rich environment Arkansas Democrat-Gazette Page 8B Opinion-Editorial March 3, 2019 A few years back, the congressman from central Arkansas, French Hill, rebooted the Golden Fleece Award. Few awards needed such a boot, maybe even giving one on occasion in the back of the pants to deserving government types. For when it comes to fleecing taxpayers, the federal government knows from it. But how decide which outfit/agency deserves it most? It's like what the military super-lifers called it when rushed by hundreds of op-forces: It's a target-rich environment, sir. Word from the press release, if not the press, said the latest Golden Fleece went to . . . (drumroll) . . . the United States Navy, for putting flawed but expensive boats on the water. French Hill's website says these billion-dollar ships are being delivered to the Navy, but in "varying degrees of incomplete work and quality problems." But apparently the Navy puts aside a lot of money to get the ships, uh, ship-shape after delivery. Or as French Hill put it, "The delivery of warships with flaws costs the taxpayers money and, most importantly, hurts the Navy's readiness." George Will once said that a United States senator has no more shame than a living room sofa. But military departments do. Somewhere, somebody is getting a dressing down. And one part of the chewing might have gone like this: And if the press ever gets hold of this, we're going to look bad! Because we haven't seen just a whole lot of stories about this colossal waste of tax money in the press. The top of Drudge on Monday was devoted to Mick Jagger (bless his heart, literally) and Fox News is obsessed with how often Joe Biden gives back rubs. What was the stand-by for old-school editorials? Attention must be paid! But will it? Maybe only with the help of French Hill's press office. This is an award with much tradition. Even Dr. Tom Coburn's Wastebook came later. The Golden Fleece Award might have been the brainchild of a U.S. senator from Wisconsin, namely William Proxmire. The archives say the first Golden Fleece went to the National Science Foundation back in 1975, for funding a study about why people fall in love. For only $84,000 of your money. We remember the criticism of the award, too. Some high muckety-muck in the entertainment industry wrote a book about creativity in 2014. In it, he said the Golden Fleece might have had "a chilling effect on research." Let's hope so. Gosh, isn't that the whole point? Should taxpayers really pay to research the physical measurements of flight attendants? (We did.) Should taxpayers really pay to compare fish aggressiveness when exposed to tequila as opposed to gin? (We did.) Should taxpayers really pay to teach college kids how to watch TV? (We did.) Let's just say French Hill is carrying on a tradition. It could be said, too, that so is the federal government. Except only one of these traditions is to the benefit of American taxpayers.
04.02.2019	WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman introduced legislation to transfer nearly 140 acres of land at Camp Robinson to the Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs (ADVA). The land conveyance will facilitate expansion of the Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery in North Little Rock. “Expanding the Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery ensures that we can continue to honor veterans and their families with fitting tributes that memorialize their service to our country,” said Hill. “Transferring this land from the Arkansas National Guard to ADVA is an efficient and effective solution that benefits all Arkansans.” “This is a commonsense solution that helps the Army Guard and the Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs. The land is costly to maintain and not useful to the guard for training. It will provide a valuable expansion of burial space for veterans – an important step to securing a place of honor for future generations of veterans. This land conveyance will help the Arkansas Department of Veterans Affairs provide the men and women who served in uniform an appropriate final resting place that acknowledges of their service and sacrifice,” Boozman said. “Our veterans deserve burials that reflect their service to our nation and the state of Arkansas. This expansion will ensure that we keep our promises to Arkansas veterans who choose to be buried alongside their brothers and sisters in arms,” Cotton said. “Our men and women in uniform make substantial sacrifices so that we can enjoy the freedoms that we hold dear. We must continue to honor their commitment to our country. This land transfer to will ensure that our veterans are not turned away from having an appropriate burial ground that acknowledges their service,” Crawford said. “The grounds where America’s heroes lie are some of the most sacred among us. By allowing for the expansion of Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery, this bill ensures that our brave veterans can be laid to rest among their comrades in uniform for generations to come. It’s an honor they earned through service, and I call on Congress to swiftly approve this proposal,” Womack said. “Without this land transfer, the Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery will run out of room and be forced to turn families of veterans away. The land conveyance is a practical solution to an imminent need, and I’m honored to sponsor legislation giving space for veterans to be laid to rest alongside their fellow patriots,” Westerman said. The land that will be transferred from Camp Robinson to the ADVA has not been used for Army Guard training in over 25 years. The land lies in the flight path of the North Little Rock airport runway, which limits the use of training devices such as artillery simulators, flares and smoke. It is also separated from the main areas of Camp Robinson and has limited access. The land transfer to the Arkansas State Veterans Cemetery at North Little Rock will enable continuation of first burials beyond 2045, when the current cemetery is predicted to reach capacity. Rather than developing an additional cemetery in central Arkansas, the land conveyance provides an expansion opportunity which will be a more cost-efficient alternative for the ADVA.
04.01.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) named the ship procurement process at the United States Navy as the latest recipient of the Golden Fleece Award for its failure to facilitate a process that provides complete and quality ships leaving taxpayers to pick up the cost of the deficiencies. “The continued delivery of Navy warships with flaws costs Arkansas taxpayers more money and, most importantly, hurts the Navy's readiness," said Congressman Hill. "As the world's most powerful naval force, the United States must hold ourselves to the highest standards. Improving the shipbuilding practices of the U.S. Navy will not only make us more accountable to taxpayers, it will help strengthen the critical role our navy plays in protecting America's interests, both at home and abroad." In a letter to the Secretary of the Department of the Navy, Richard V. Spencer, Congressman Hill wrote: Dear Secretary Spencer: I write today to inform you that your agency is this month's recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to the United States Navy for its ship procurement policy, which has resulted in incomplete and defective ships routinely being delivered to the Navy. According to a 2017 report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that reviewed eight ships valued at a total of $6.3 billion, the GAO found that "they were provided to the fleet with varying degrees of incomplete work and quality problems," and that 90% of the deficiencies on these eight ships were not fixed prior to final delivery to the Navy. Further, the incentive structures within the shipbuilder's contracts have resulted in U.S taxpayers being financially responsible for 96% of shipbuilder's deficiencies. Over the last 30 years, the Navy has spent an average of $16 billion annually on new warships, and the Navy has requested $24 billion for new warships in its FY2020 budget. The delivery of warships with flaws costs the taxpayers money and, most importantly, hurts the Navy's readiness. Our federal agencies must be good stewards of our federal taxpayer dollars, and I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our Nation's federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress About the Golden Fleece Award Every year, Congress appropriates trillions of dollars to fund the federal government, and every year the federal government wastes portions of these funds in unconscionable ways. In an attempt to increase accountability for every single government program, Congressman Hill decided to bring back the Golden Fleece Award. Originally introduced by Democratic U.S. Senator from Wisconsin William Proxmire in March 1975, the Golden Fleece Award was a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The Golden Fleece Award became a staple in the U.S. Senate during this time, and Senator Robert Byrd once stated that the awards were “as much a part of the Senate as quorum calls and filibusters.” In reviving this idea, the Golden Fleece Award will again have the opportunity to serve as an important reminder to taxpayers about the need for necessary, commonsense reforms to our federal spending.
03.25.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement in response to Attorney General William Barr's summary of the report issued by Special Counsel Robert Mueller: "Once appointed, I have supported Special Counsel Mueller having the time and resources to conduct his investigation. After reading Attorney General Barr’s summary of the Special Counsel’s report prepared for Congress, I am pleased to learn from the summary that, after an exhaustive investigation, the Special Counsel did not find evidence of collusion between the president and his campaign and the Russian government. "Attorney General Barr stated in his summary to Congress that “[his] goal and intent is to release as much of the Special Counsel’s report as [he] can consistent with applicable law, regulations, and Department policies,” and I support this decision, allowing the public to read as much of the Special Counsel’s results as possible so we can move forward as a country. We have challenges to face and solutions to craft—together."
03.21.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This month, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced two new staff additions. Anna Reckling will be serving as Staff Assistant in the Congressman's Little Rock office and Mitch Whalen will be serving as Staff Assistant in the Washington, D.C. office. Reckling, a recent graduate of Hendrix College with a degree in Anthropology, is a resident of Bryant, Arkansas, and previously interned for Congressman Hill in his Arkansas offices from June through December of 2018. Prior to her education, she attended the Arkansas School for Math, Sciences, and the Arts and most recently worked at the Arkansas Public Policy Panel. Whalen, a 2018 graduate of the University of Arkansas with a degree in Communications, is a lifelong resident of Little Rock and previously worked as a recruiter for J.B Hunt Transport. He most recently served as an intern for the office of Congressman Steve Womack (AR-03). “I am proud to add to my team two young professionals who were born and raised in central Arkansas," said Congressman Hill. "Their experience and understanding of Arkansas's second Congressional district are assets to the constituents we serve. Both Anna and Mitch have demonstrated a deep passion for public service, and I'm excited to have them on my team."
03.20.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), released the following statement in support of Arkansas becoming the first to enact state-level “Opportunity Zone” tax incentives that complement the federal incentives created by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017: “All Arkansans should be proud that the Natural State is leading the way in creating innovative investment opportunities that will help revive our low-income communities. Being the first state to provide state-level incentives for Opportunity Zones sends a powerful message across the country that Arkansas is at the forefront of economic development. “Empowering our local and state governments only further enhances investment in Opportunity Zones ensuring that Arkansans benefit from new job creation and revitalization. I applaud all 132 members of the Arkansas General Assembly, Republican and Democrat, who voted unanimously in support of this legislation, as well as Governor Hutchinson for signing it into law.” In February, Congressman Hill and U.S. Senator Tim Scott (R-SC) (pictured right) visited with Philander Smith College President, Roderick L. Smothers, Sr. (pictured center) to discuss how Opportunity Zones, which includes the campus of Philander Smith College, will benefit the Little Rock community. Background: In January of this year, Congressman Hill penned an op-ed for the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, calling on the Arkansas General Assembly to enhance federally designated Opportunity Zones by enacting legislation that would create state tax incentives for investment. That op-ed can be found HERE. Legislation to conform Arkansas’s state tax code to mirror the federal Opportunity Zones incentives became law on February 26, 2019. The bill was introduced in the House by State Representative Robin Lundstrum, Representative Clint Penzo, and Representative Deborah Ferguson, and in the Senate by State Senator Keith Ingram. Arkansas is the first state to enact state Opportunity Zone legislation. Opportunity Zones, created by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, are designed to attract companies and businesses to invest in economically distressed communities through federal government tax incentives such as eliminating the capital gains tax.
03.12.2019	Click on the picture above to watch Rep. Hill's questions from today's Financial Services Committee Hearing. WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) participated in a House Financial Services Committee hearing where he questioned the President and Chief Executive Officer of Wells Fargo & Company, Timothy J. Sloan, on changes made to the bank's internal oversight practices and sales incentives following past consumer abuses and misconduct. Key Excerpts: Congressman French Hill: Thank you, Mr. Sloan, for appearing before the Committee today…. I spent my career on and off for 35 years in the community banking business, [and] I just want to express to you the same thing I expressed to your predecessor [when he appeared before the Committee in 2016], which is severe disappointment at the disconnect that Mr. Stump appeared to have at the Committee. I really agree with my friend, Mr. Williams, as a former business guy as well, that the lack of engagement that he demonstrated was severely disappointing. That comes from the fact in the 1990s when it came Dick Kovacevich and Norwest, that was a company that all of us in community banking benchmarked against, including standards of customer service and success. So personally, this is disappointing, and professionally as well. When [stump] was here, it was said that 900 Arkansas accounts were affected; we don't have a big retail presence by Wells Fargo in Arkansas. In the materials you sent out before the Committee hearing, it is 60% higher, 1,445 accounts, so that’s surprising that it is up that much. I hope that all these issues are resolved and that people are treated fairly in all these settlements. I was looking at some comments made by your largest shareholder, Warren Buffett. He made a comment in relation to the long-run earning power of Wells Fargo. Mr. Buffett said, “You can’t take away Wells’ customer base, it grows quarter by quarter. And what you make money off of is customers. And you make money on customers by having a hell of a spread on assets and not doing anything really dumb. And that's what they do.” But when asked as a follow-up, Buffett said a couple of years later, “They made one mistake…. incentives work. And they came up with improper incentives and they worked. And so, they [incentivized] bad behavior instead of [incentivizing] good behavior.” So, what I want to talk about is that. You say you changed your incentive system, which is at the heart of the issue, whether we are talking about the mortgage bank, the wealth management group, or the consumer bank. What is your use of independent secret shoppers at all your locations nationwide? How much money do you spend on it? I presume you have an independent third party doing that, in addition to any internal audit. Tell me about that. Timothy Sloan: So, we do two things in our retail bank to check how our team is responding to customer needs and desires. One is we have independently collected customer service and customer loyalty scores; we do that on a weekly basis. We have a mystery shopper program. Congressman French Hill: I want to know about the mystery shopper program. How often are they in your branches monthly? How big is that program overall, and how much money do you spend on it? Timothy Sloan: We have tens of thousands of mystery shopper visits on an annual basis. I do not know how much we spend on it. Congressman French Hill: Was that a big change from prior management? Timothy Sloan: It is. Congressman French Hill: Like on an order of magnitude of 100% better or 10% better? Timothy Sloan: It didn't exist before now. Congressman French Hill: It didn't exist. So, you didn't use mystery shopping as a standard banking practice. Timothy Sloan: We may have used it from time to time, not on a consistent basis and not to the extent we do today. Congressman French Hill: Well that is a major change. I know that Mr. Green mentioned that before in this Committee, and really, I don't know a bank of any size that doesn't mystery shop its consumers. Timothy Sloan: By the way, I personally mystery shop at our branches, too. When I visit one of our branches, I don't let them know I’m coming. Sometimes I don’t dress like this, I dress like a normal customer. Sometimes they recognize me, sometimes they don't. It’s better when they don't because I really get an understanding of how our team is interacting with our customers. I call our phone centers and don't announce it. Congressman French Hill: Would you please follow up with me and give me more description on the scope of your mystery shopping program? I will conclude with Buffett's testimony before Congress in 1991. Buffett said, "If you lose money for the firm by bad decisions, I will be very understanding. If you lose reputation for the firm, I will be ruthless." I urge you to be ruthless, Mr. Sloan.
03.11.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) named the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA) as the latest recipient of the Golden Fleece Award for continued delays to completion of Silver Line Phase 2, resulting in millions of dollars in extra costs to taxpayers. “The federal government must be better stewards of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars, and double spending because of mistakes simply is not acceptable," said Congressman Hill. "The costs are more than monetary because residents and visitors to Washington, D.C. from Arkansas and across the nation aren’t getting the services they have paid for.” In a letter to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, John E. Potter, Congressman Hill wrote: Dear Mr. Potter: I write today to inform you that your agency is this month's recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority (MWAA) for continued delays of Silver Line Phase 2. According to reports by The Washington Post, Silver Line Phase 2 is more than a year behind schedule and has had numerous construction problems, including having to rebuild an entire platform that was built with the wrong dimensions, cracked panels at a rail yard that houses train cars, flaws in concrete rails ties that could cause tracks to tilt outward, and contractors utilizing cranes that do not meet "Buy America" requirements and will have to be replaced. The entire Silver Line project is expected to cost more than $5.6 billion, and we must be good stewards of our taxpayers' dollars. Our nation is currently over $22 trillion in debt, and it is important now more than ever that we carefully scrutinize our government programs to ensure that we are only funding essential programs and projects while eliminating frivolous and wasteful spending - and ensuring we have in place necessary accountability mechanisms. MWAA has already received $900 million for Silver Line Phase 1 from the U.S. Department of Transportation, in addition to nearly $2 billion in federal loans for Silver Line Phase 2. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress About the Golden Fleece Award Every year, Congress appropriates trillions of dollars to fund the federal government, and every year the federal government wastes portions of these funds in unconscionable ways. In an attempt to increase accountability for every single government program, Congressman Hill decided to bring back the Golden Fleece Award. Originally introduced by Democratic U.S. Senator from Wisconsin William Proxmire in March 1975, the Golden Fleece Award was a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The Golden Fleece Award became a staple in the U.S. Senate during this time, and Senator Robert Byrd once stated that the awards were “as much a part of the Senate as quorum calls and filibusters.” In reviving this idea, the Golden Fleece Award will again have the opportunity to serve as an important reminder to taxpayers about the need for necessary, commonsense reforms to our federal spending.
03.11.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, by a vote of 404-7, the House passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02), H.R. 758, the Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act. This legislation provides protections for financial institutions against regulatory agency backlash due to cooperation with a federal or state law enforcement agency. Following passage of the bill, Congressman Hill issued the following statement: “As a former community banker, I have dealt with the conflict of wanting to help law enforcement agencies but also needing to comply with the requirements set forth by a regulator. Additionally, I’ve recently heard from banks that are seeing an increase in the number of requests from law enforcement to cooperate with a criminal investigation, which can include money laundering, terrorism financing, and human trafficking. “Allowing banks to keep accounts open that are involved in criminal investigations will help combat these horrific crimes. My commonsense bill supports our law enforcement by allowing financial institutions to comply with such a request to maintain a suspicious account without being penalized by regulators. I appreciate the support of my colleagues in the House to pass this important legislation and I look forward to working with the Senate to get it across the finish line.” Background: The full text of H.R. 758 can be found HERE. Under the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and anti-money laundering regulations, banks face strict rules for managing accounts so that they cannot facilitate money laundering, terrorism financing, drug running, and other illegal activities. Sometimes banks receive notices from law enforcement agencies, known as “keep open” letters, requesting them to keep an account open so that they can track payments and better monitor criminals. The Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act would provide protections for financial institutions against regulatory agency backlash due to cooperation with a federal or state law enforcement agency. Similar legislation was introduced by Rep. Hill in the 115th Congress that was overwhelmingly passed in the House by a vote of 379-4.
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. —Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), released the following statement after voting against H.R. 1, the For the People Act, unconstitutional legislation that attempts to federalize national elections and undermines the integrity of America’s election process: “The power of the vote is the cornerstone of our Republic. Enshrined in our Constitution, individual states have the primary responsibility to set the ‘times, places, and manner’ of Congressional elections. However, the federal takeover of elections passed by the Democratic majority today was not designed to protect voting rights; it was designed to protect their own political careers. “The bill passed today would send taxpayer dollars to candidates' coffers and consultants' pockets, would politicize the historically bipartisan Federal Elections Commission, and would suppress the political speech of Americans. Surrendering state control of our elections will lead to a bigger, more overreaching federal government that our founding fathers never intended.” Arkansas Secretary of State John Thurston said, “H.R. 1 is a very political and deeply flawed piece of legislation and represents a gross overreach of federal power that encroaches on the rights of the states. Voting rights and election security are serious issues. This legislation goes too far and would not improve the security of our elections in any way.” Summary of H.R. 1: (Courtesy of the House Republican Conference) Violates constitutional rights under the First Amendment by expanding the definition of political speech and increasing the power of the federal government to control it. Changes the makeup of the FEC from a balanced 3-3 ration to a partisan 3-2 ratio, giving democrats the ability to silence speech with which they disagree. Creates a 6:1 government match to any small donor contributions of $200 or less in a congressional or presidential campaign. Creates a new voucher pilot program that grants eligible voters a $25 in taxpayer money to donate to any campaign of their choosing. H.R. 1 will mandate our states to allow online voter registration, automatic voter registration, and same day voter registration. Diminishes the process of Election Day voting by expanding “no excuse” absentee voting and allowing for any eligible voter to be able to cast their ballot by mail with no additional safeguards to this process. Disregards state voter identification laws by allowing sworn statements to be used in place of identification and allowing for signature verification, which can be submitted through a photo if the voter registers online. Weakens the voting system of the American people by increasing the election system’s vulnerability and failing to implement the necessary checks and balances regarding who is registering to vote. H.R. 1 will force states to allow online voter registration, automatic voter registration, and same day voter registration with no penalties to any ineligible individual registered in error. Groups opposed to H.R. 1: U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Taxpayers Union, Associated Builders and Contractors, Americans for Prosperity, National Association of Manufacturers, Americans for Tax Reform, National Right to Life, Club for Growth, Heritage Action for America, International Franchise Association, Numbers USA, Family Research Council, Faith and Freedom Coalition, March for Life Action, Freedom Works.
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. —Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), Vice Co-Chair of the bipartisan Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Caucus, addressed the second annual HBCU Science, Technology, Engineering, Art, and Mathematics (STEAM) Day of Action on Capitol Hill. This annual event brings together education leaders, tech companies, and members of Congress for a day of advocacy for America’s 102 HBCUs and their 300,000 students. “Little Rock, Arkansas is proud to be home to three outstanding HBCUs: Shorter College, Philander Smith College, and Arkansas Baptist College,” said Congressman Hill. “All three of these schools are closely engaged in the local business community and play a major role in preparing students to be ready for the workforce of tomorrow. Increasing STEAM opportunities and resources for our HBCUs will empower students to fill the estimated 557,100 new computing jobs created between 2016 to 2026. Prioritizing STEAM skills will put our HBCUs in a better position to compete in the global market and create new jobs here in Arkansas that drive our local economies.” Background: The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that employment of computer and information technology occupations is projected to grow 13 percent from 2016 to 2026, faster than the average for all occupations. These occupations are projected to add about 557,100 new jobs. (Courtesy of the HBCU Caucus) During STEAM Day, the HBCU and industry coalition will meet with Republican and Democratic members of Congress in both the U.S. House and U.S. Senate. Together, they will advocate for greater resources for HBCUs and discuss best practices for building a well-prepared and diverse workforce. The Senate and House Appropriations Committees, House Energy and Commerce Committee, House Financial Services Subcommittee on Diversity & Inclusion, Congressional Black Caucus, House Education and Labor Committee, House Committee on Science, Space & Technology, and Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee will host meetings for the coalition. More than 40 members of Congress will participate in HBCU STEAM Day.
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Monday, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spoke from the House floor in support of interim Venezuelan President Juan Guaidó and called on Nicolás Maduro to step down. Click on the picture below to watch his full remarks from the House floor. Rep. Hill's remarks, as prepared, are copied below: "I rise today to address the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Venezuela: and the ineffective, inhumane, and irresponsible actions of the Maduro Government. For years, Venezuela’s United Socialist Party has pushed a once prosperous country towards desperate poverty, and open tyranny. "Today in Venezuela, Maduro celebrates while his people eat garbage, and for too long, the government has acted without accountability. Water sanitation is nonexistent, and hospitals stand without power or medicine; all while tons of U.S. food and medical aid sit unused at the Venezuela/Colombia border. "I stand with interim president Juan Guaidó and call on Maduro to step down so that humanitarian aid can flow to the Venezuelan people who are sick, starving, and scared. "All Americans stand with Venezuelans who want their Republic back. They want their rights back. They want their freedom back."
03.04.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — In an interview with former Arkansas Governor, Mike Huckabee, on the Trinity Broadcasting Network, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) discussed his legislation, H.RES.49, in support of religious liberty for Coptic Christians in Egypt. Congressman Hill also discussed his support for H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act, legislation he cosponsored to protect innocent babies who are born alive after a failed abortion. Congressman Hill stated, “Down through Egypt in the rural areas, Coptic Christians are still treated with great harm and discrimination. I want to see those crimes punished. I’d like to see [Egyptian President el-Sisi] do the right thing at the top, but also make sure it carries out through the whole country.” Congressman Hill also argued, “Americans were repulsed by the recently passed statutes in New York and Virginia…. [W]e’ve introduced legislation saying that a baby born alive, as a result of a botched abortion, gets the same care and treatment as any other baby. What we’ve seen as a result is a national conversation expressing outrage that it would be any other way.” Click on the picture below to watch the full interview with Congressman Hill on "Huckabee."
02.28.2019	Click on the picture above to watch Rep. Hill's questions from this week's hearing with Fed Chairman Powell. WASHINGTON D.C. — This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) participated in a House Financial Services Committee hearing where he questioned Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Jerome Powell, on the U.S. balance sheet, open banking in the United Kingdom, and the sale of mortgage-backed securities. Key Excerpts: Congressman Hill: We are delighted to have you and thank you for your steady hand at the Federal Reserve. We are grateful for your time answering our questions. I want to follow up on Mr. Barr's questioning on the balance sheet, looking for some detail with the normalization process. The balance sheet was down about $368 billion January to January, about a 9% reduction. If you think about the size of the economy, and your comments about the future balance sheet size, it occurred to me that at if the fed balance sheet was down 10% of GDP, so $2 trillion, as opposed to the 6% or 7% it was before the financial crisis, that at this rate it would take about five years to normalize in that range. As you begin to think about the balance sheet, that would be about 16 years after the financial crisis that the balance sheet would be normalized. If you look at the rolling off of the portfolio, what range of years do you think it would reach? I am looking for a range of the denominator. Chairman Powell: The level of demand for our liabilities, the reserve and currency, but also the treasury account, where the treasury keeps cash, and the designated financial market utilities, they keep their rainy-day cash there, the demand for those is so much higher that we are not far from the level of that demand. Our estimates of the demand, particularly for the reserves, has gone up a lot over the course of the last couple years. In terms of years, I think that we are going to be in a position where we can stop runoff later this year. We may be a bit above the equilibrium demand for reserves, but we are not looking to limit the growth of the other liabilities, because we think that they meet important demands from the public. Congressman Hill: You are suggesting that sometime this year, on the asset side, you will stop letting securities roll off? Chairman Powell: That is right. That will be about 16% to 17% of GDP, where it was 6% before. The difference is currency is a bigger part of it and the same thing with reserves. Congressman Hill: When you look at the composition--I know you testified that you prefer a treasury only balance sheet, and you've heard discussions previously in this committee where we recognize in periods of crisis that the fed could take other assets, but many of us believe they should've swapped those back out at the treasury, so the central bank maintains only a treasury portfolio--do you still hold that view? And what are your views on Mr. Quarles comments last week that he would look at limited sales of the MBS portfolio? Chairman Powell: We have said we want, primarily, a treasury balance sheet. We've also said we hold the possibility that at some point, this is not something decided or anything in the near term, we would do limited sales of MBS to hasten the process. We have a bunch of decisions to make on the balance sheet, and the one on MBS sales is closer to the back of the line. We will be working through that in a careful way. Markets are sensitive to this. Congressman Hill: I know that the markets would connect with those sales. I would encourage that. I want to switch gears and talk about another U.K. issue that is not Brexit. That is the subject of open banking. The U.K.'s payment services directive, which is also termed informally as open banking, and I would like to get, if not your thoughts today, your thoughts in writing about the promise of open banking as it benefits more competition. This is where consumers have access to all their data with brokerage banking that they get to control. It's a way to have better data security and more consumer security. It has been required now of the major banks in the U.K. Are you familiar with that? Chairman Powell: I am not familiar with the U.K. aspect of it. I'm familiar with the fact it is a very interesting and important issue here. Congressman Hill: As we look at FinTech in our markets and we look at ways to level the competitive playing field between the G-SIFI's and everybody else, I think this will be an important issue and I invite your comments in the future on that.
02.27.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after opposing H.R. 8, legislation to outlaw private gun sales throughout the country: “I’ve consistently supported meaningful solutions that seek to reduce gun violence. This includes legislation that strengthens the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, as well as efforts to improve school security in Arkansas. Additionally, this week I cosponsored the Mass Violence Prevention Act which would allow law enforcement to share information more efficiently, and respond quicker to potential threats. However, the gun control bill we voted on today is nothing more than ‘feel-good’ legislation that does not keep guns out of the hands of criminals, and leaves Arkansans less free. “Saving lives requires addressing the root problem of gun violence, including a lack of mental health resources, and tools to identify individuals who are a danger to themselves and others. Congress must build on successful legislative efforts that gives law enforcement the ability to better identify mental illness. I am committed to working with my colleagues to find practical solutions that curb gun violence; however, I cannot support policies that infringe on the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens.” Background: This week, Rep. Hill signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 1339, the Mass Violence Prevention (MVP) Act introduced by Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA). This legislation would create a fusion center at the Department of Justice (DOJ) to help local, state, and federal law enforcement share and process intelligence, so they can swiftly and appropriately respond to potential instances of mass violence. The Fix NICS Act, signed into law in December of 2017, addresses the shortcomings of the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. This legislation makes it mandatory for all federal agencies to report criminal convictions to the Attorney General, so those convictions are put into the background check system. The STOP School Violence Act, passed in the House in 2018, authorizes $50 million for grants administered by the Department of Justice to fund training and other initiatives to enhance school safety, and $25 million annually for physical school improvements.
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after voting against H.J.Res.46, a resolution to terminate the president's emergency declaration related to the southern border: "Evaluating the president's national emergency declaration requires answering the following questions: Does the 1976 law, passed by Congress, give the president authority to reprogram military construction funding and what are the consequences of reprogramming the funds that the president has identified? "Based on the answers to these questions, I voted against blocking the president's emergency declaration. While I would prefer Congress to appropriate these funds to combat the crisis on our southwest border, the president does have the authority to reprogram funds and I believe their use would not undermine the priorities of our military and law enforcement."
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — In a letter to the New York Times’ editor, Rep. French Hill (AR-02) responded to an op-ed by U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY) and U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) that called for the limitation of corporate stock buybacks. Rep. Hill argued “[l]imiting stock buybacks disincentivizes aspiring entrepreneurs to go public and hinders individual shareholders and retirees from building equity,” and that “boards should take full responsibility for the decisions that impact their shareholders.” Read Rep. Hill's full letter to the editor below. Stock Buybacks: Representative French Hill warns against interfering in the free market. The New York Times Page A22 Congressman French Hill February 24, 2019 I was disappointed to read the op-ed from Senators Schumer and Sanders, calling for the limitation of corporate stock buybacks. I was even more disheartened when just this past week, I learned Senator Marco Rubio also announced a similar plan. For some reason, these Senators believe they know how best to allocate capital across our $20 trillion U.S. economy. Limiting stock buybacks disincentivizes aspiring entrepreneurs to go public and hinders individual shareholders and retirees from building equity. Management and boards of directors for public companies have a fiduciary obligation to maximize long-term appreciation for their shareholders. This fiduciary stewardship requires a thorough knowledge of the company’s growth, capital needs, and stock valuation. Policymakers interfering with this fiduciary obligation undermines the free market which could lead to unintended consequences for the investor. To quote investment maven, Warren Buffett, chief executive at Berkshire Hathaway, stock buybacks are "sensible for a company when its shares sell at a meaningful discount to conservatively calculated intrinsic value. Indeed, disciplined repurchases are the surest way to use funds intelligently: It’s hard to go wrong when you’re buying dollar bills for 80¢ or less." Buffett reminds management, though, "never forget: In repurchase decisions, price is all-important. Value is destroyed when purchases are made above intrinsic value." Management that miscalculates this all-important Buffett maxim do so at their own peril. As shareholder values fall, stock returns to investors will be noncompetitive and the spotlight will shine on the leaders of the company that made poor capital allocation decisions. Government policy has no business in meddling with capital allocation. Boards should take full responsibility for the decisions that impact their shareholders.
02.22.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement in support of the decision by the White House to keep a small force of U.S. troops in Syria split between Kurdish areas in the northeast and al-Tanf in the south: “I am pleased to learn that the president has reversed his decision to pull all of our soldiers out of Syria, and has decided to leave a small force at the base and deconfliction zone at al-Tanf in south Syria. It is critical that U.S. forces are present to lead our international allies in providing stability in this fragile region. History has shown us that a strategy of ‘America leading from behind’ results in disastrous consequences that threaten the lives of refugees, and allows brutal dictators and terrorist groups to thrive. We must ensure that an allied force remains at al-Tanf and today's announcement is welcome news." Rep. Hill has repeatedly spoken out on the importance of American leadership in Syria. On January 10, 2019, he delivered a speech on the House floor discussing America’s military goals in Syria which includes supporting a small base and deconfliction zone at al-Tanf, pictured below. Video of that speech can be viewed by clicking HERE or on the picture below. Prepared remarks from Rep. Hill's January 10, 2019, floor speech are copied below: Mr. Speaker, I was delighted to read that President Trump has reflected on his initial instinct to pull our 2000 soldiers out of eastern Syria based on his conclusion that ISIS is defeated. Instead, he is ordering a withdrawal “at a proper pace” consistent with American objectives. To meet our goals of a safe American homeland and progress towards regional stability, America must: First, develop a strategy to eliminate ISIS from Northeast Syria along the lower Euphrates Valley at the border of Syria and Iraq. This plan must include a productive partner role for our allies, the Kurds. It is not in America's interest to abandon our long friends the Kurds to Turkish treachery and annihilation. Recent open source data suggests that there are 30,000 ISIS related fighters in the lower Euphrates Valley near the Syrian – Iraqi border. With our allies, we must press this villainous band to its inglorious end. And, we must, with our allies, redouble our efforts to cut off their money flow and recover the hundreds of millions stolen by this rogue, murderous “caliphate-in-name only.” Our leaving with no plan will squander our immense success in cutting off funding and winning back hard fought territorial gains from the occupation by ISIS. Second, America must block Iran. A key here is the small base and deconfliction zone at al-Tanf. A small force of 200 anchors that base along this key highway. Not only is this a strategic imperative, but 50,000 refugees are tenuously housed within this deconfliction zone at Rukban (Ruck-ban). We must insure that an allied force remains at al-Tanf blocking the Iranian autobahn being considered from Tehran to Damascus. For the 50,000 refugees, half of which are children: withdrawal and death awaits them. Jordan can take no more. Withdraw and you will leave Israel fully encircled by its greatest enemy, the Ayatollah in Tehran. Finally, America must achieve peace and stability in Syria. Our small, elite presence, our supply lines, and air superiority offer pressure on the murderous regime in Damascus to reach a settlement to return Syria to peace and return millions of refugees to their towns and ancestors’ villages. Leave, Mr. President and you will squander the great moral victory of your strategic strikes against Assad from his illegal use of chemical weapons and barrel bombs. Your decisive action made our friends, villagers huddling in fear and from the Euphrates to Idlib, shout with joy –– “America is back” they shouted. Leave, Mr. President with no plan, and no strategy and they will hang their heads, as they did during President Obama's shameful abandonment. Mr. Speaker, this unfortunate chapter unfolding in the tragedy known as Syria foreshadows an unflattering flashback to a time long ago when Great Britain abandoned a role of stability in the Holy Land and India. In 1948, Churchill rose in the House to oppose Prime Minister Atlee's own unplanned, precipitous withdrawal from the Holy Land saying: “a time limit imposed – – a kind of guillotine – – will certainly prevent the full, fair, and reasonable discussion of the great complicated issues that are involved.” Indeed, as Churchill foresaw, mayhem, terror, and destruction were the result of Britain’s precipitous withdrawal. It’s said that history doesn't repeat itself but that it does rhyme…Mr. President, let's not repeat this historical mistake, nor let our actions even result in a rhyme.
02.21.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released a video celebrating a legislative provision of his being signed into law that directs the U.S. Forest Service to study additional existing U.S. forest lands located in Perry County and adjacent to the Flatside Wilderness. The purpose of this study is to determine their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Click on the video below to watch Rep. Hill's announcement. The transcript of Rep. Hill's video is copied below: "Hey this is Congressman French Hill. We are in the Flatside Wilderness Area, part of the Ouachita National Forest about an hour west of Little Rock. Behind me you see one of the landmarks in this part of the Ouachitas: Forked Mountain. It’s a beautiful spot. It was protected by the 1984 Wilderness Act that created Flatside Wilderness Area. When I was a Senate staffer back in 1983, I actually worked on supporting that legislation. "So now, many years later, as a member of Congress, I was pleased to introduce the legislation that is enhancing this beautiful area called the Flatside Wilderness. At the end of the year, President Trump signed my bill into law, which added this area in blue to Flatside. I named it for Congressman Ed Bethune who worked so hard back in 1983 and 1984 to create the Flatside Wilderness Area. "Then just a few days ago, with great help from my friend John Boozman in the U.S. Senate, we had a House and Senate compromise spending bill for FY19. In that spending bill, this area in green was designated by Congress to be studied by the Ouachita National Forest to see if this area was eligible to be added to the Flatside Wilderness Area. I really appreciate Senator Boozman working with me on this to get this included in the FY19 appropriations process. "With these two major efforts, we are enhancing the Flatside Wilderness Area, which has become a terrific outdoor recreation mega-area for central Arkansas. You can hike, you can camp, you can backpack through the wilderness area, or the Ouachita National Trail from Oklahoma to Pinnacle Mountain in Little Rock which crosses straight through Flatside. "It’s a wonderful place to hunt in the fall, or come out here and try to find that wily spring turkey, when Arkansas turkey season opens. It's been a real pleasure for me over the last three decades to enjoy Flatside and now as a member of Congress, to help enhance it so that we will protect this area and make it something special for not only this generation, but all the generations to come. Come out and visit the Flatside Wilderness Area in Ouachita National Forest." Pictured below is the updated map of the Flatside Wilderness including the new Bethune Woods addition in blue, and the study area in green.
02.20.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) is seeking Arkansas college and graduate students as well as recent graduates interested in getting a firsthand look at the inner workings of Congress by interning in one of his Arkansas offices this spring. “Internships are excellent opportunities for any individual interested in public service. Our Spring Internship Program offers a firsthand look at the inner-workings of Congress and a chance to assist central Arkansans,” Hill said. In the Little Rock and Conway offices, individuals will have the opportunity to learn about how the office provides constituent services, interacts with the community, and serves as a liaison to the Washington, D.C. office. Interns will work closely with staff to help individual constituents who have issues before federal agencies such as the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Social Security Administration. Interested applicants are asked to send a resume and cover letter to AR02.Applications@mail.house.gov and contact Hill’s office for more information at (501) 324-5941.
02.18.2019	Click on the video above to watch Rep. Hill's remarks from this week's House Financial Services Committee Hearing. WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) participated in a House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Homeless in America: Examining the Crisis and Solutions to End Homelessness." During the hearing, Rep. Hill highlighted programs and non-profit organizations in Little Rock, Arkansas that are successfully combating homelessness and questioned witnesses on ways to improve the effectiveness of allocating resources for homelessness at a national level. Key excerpts: Rep. Hill: I would like to start by talking a little bit about the robust efforts in Little Rock to combat homelessness. It's very well-coordinated, and it has a robust engagement with both the city, federal resources and our nonprofits. In the two terms I've served in Congress, I've found it very rewarding to see their work. Where they have an active casework in our office we go and find veterans where they are. We have solved many veteran challenges in our homeless shelters. It's been really rewarding work in our office. I've got four veterans on my constituent team, three of them are combat veterans and they spend time in our shelters really helping our vets. They deserve that extra touch and many of them are really lost in the morass of not only homelessness, but also the veteran programs that they might be eligible for. I thank my staff for that work. We've been a vigorous advocate for funding just in the last four years. We've gotten four million dollars in grant funding for our homeless nonprofits in Little Rock and they are using that money very wisely. I've been so impressed by their ability to take care of emergency transient housing, the person who loses their lease, that family in crisis, that more troubling chronic alcohol and drug addicted population, and then those who are really working their way back to self-sufficiency. The group works really well together and that's why I invited Ben Carson to Little Rock to see this work on the ground and see what's happening. He was really inspired by that work. We have one of our nonprofits, Our House, which would be a terrific group to lead the Envision Centers in our public housing. It’s an initiative of HUD and I hope to see that move forward. Whether it’s the Union Rescue Mission Dorcas House, St. Francis House, Jericho Way, Salvation Army, Gains, Lucie's Place, Women and Children First--I have been impressed, as a former business person, how well they work together, looking for that gap and filling it to help all those suffering from homelessness. I heard Mr. Lawson mention it, my friend from Wisconsin mentioned this issue of definitions. We have all these definitions that are different on homelessness. It's allowed the federal government to make claims about ending homelessness which I don't agree with. We had a celebration where the mayor of Little Rock said at an event last fall that we've ended veteran's homelessness. I'm thinking man, I can take you and introduce you to some right now that are homeless. So how do we get HUD and the VA on the same page on the definition about who is homeless? Ms. Olivia, you worked at HUD. So, we have these multiple definitions of homelessness. Is living in a hotel homeless? Ann Marie Oliva, Senior Policy Advisor, Corporation for Supportive Services: Well it depends. Rep. Hill: Well it really doesn’t. If they're in a hotel longer than a month, are they homeless? Ms. Olivia: So I would say again, there's a need because of the resources that are available to prioritize folks that are most vulnerable first for the housing resources that are available. I don't think that HUD and the VA are not on the same page--and Mr. Stewart might be able to address this based on something more recent--our work with the VA, our collaborative work with the VA and USICH around veteran homelessness in particular, was some of the best work that we did inside of the federal government. As far as I'm concerned, we were on the same page. We ensured that we were prioritizing chronically homeless veterans for the HUD VASH program for example. Until no veteran was on the street, then we could start working down the list. Homelessness prevention is a part of those programs that could work with those folks. Rep. Hill: And they do great work in that. Ms. Roman, talk to me about the vouchers that we have in section 8, how do we make sure that they really are clean and safe places? Is public housing authority really putting those housing vouchers out where they should be? Nan Roman, President and CEO, National Alliance to End Homelessness: Well I’m not an expert on section 8 but my understanding is that they do inspections on section 8 units. They are supposed to be clean and safe. I think in the homeless arena, we don't always have those kinds of inspections and you do have to be concerned about their quality.
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report to accompany H.J.Res.31, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019: "Over the past few months, Arkansans have made it clear that they want a secure southwest border and an operational government. The spending bill that passed the House today funds major border security improvements including $22.5 billion for overall border security, $1.4 billion for 55 new miles of physical barrier, and 139 additional immigration judge teams that the president requested. Compared to funding levels from the previous year, there is no question that this bill empowers the Department of Homeland Security to better protect our borders. "This is a step in the right direction, however the job is not finished. Our border security experts agree that we still need more manpower on the border, reforms to our asylum laws, and increased interior enforcement. I will continue to work with the president and my Congressional colleagues to resolve the crisis on our southwest border and keep the country safe." Background: The full text of the Conference Report can be found HERE.
02.05.2019	(Pictured left: Rep. Hill meets with Khalid Kamalmaz before the State of the Union address. Pictured right: Majd Kamalmaz, an American therapist detained in Syria in 2017, pictured in 2014. Photo courtesy of the Wall Street Journal. WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that his guest for tonight's State of the Union address is Khalid Kamalmaz, the son of Majd Kamalmaz, a former Arkansas resident being detained in Syria. “After meeting with the Kamalmaz family on several occasions, I am committed to doing everything I can to help bring Majd Kamalmaz safely home, and I am inspired by the courage the Kamalmaz family has shown during this difficult time. I join them in hopefulness and continue to believe that President Trump can help to bring Majd Kamalmaz back to the United States where he can meet his two youngest grandchildren for the first time." Background: Majd Kamalmaz is an American being detained in Syria. It is thought that he is being held by the government of Syrian dictator, Bashar al-Assad. In February 2017, Majd was detained by Syrian police while visiting the country for his father-in-law’s funeral. Last week, Rep. Hill wrote to the president requesting his help in bringing Majd safely home from Syria. The full text of the letter can be found HERE. Madj Kamalmaz's story was recently featured on PBS News Hour, which can be viewed HERE. Majd's oldest son, Khalid, is a graduate of George Mason University and currently lives in Northwest Indiana with his wife and two sons.
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the president delivered the annual State of the Union address: "Arkansans have always been able to achieve greatness when we choose to focus on what unites us instead of what divides us. Tonight, I was encouraged by the president's comments calling on all Americans to choose unity over division. "Over the past two years, we've seen record-breaking economic growth that has created more jobs and higher wages for hard-working Arkansas families. The president’s vision for the future includes important priorities that build on the past successes we achieved in the last Congress. We will continue to lower prescription drug costs, revitalize economically distressed communities by expanding ‘Opportunity Zones,’ and empower our agriculture industry with new trade deals that protect Arkansas farmers. "These are bipartisan goals that are widely agreed upon by an overwhelming majority of Americans. I look forward to working with all of my colleagues, and the president, on delivering results that will continue to build a stronger, safer, and more prosperous Arkansas."
01.30.2019	Click on the picture above to watch video of Rep. Hill's speech on the House floor this past Wednesday. WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) submitted a letter to the president requesting his support in bringing Majd Kamalmaz safely home from Syria. Mr. Kamalmaz is an American being unjustly held by the government of Syrian dictator, Bashar al-Assad. After submitting the letter, Rep. Hill delivered the following remarks on the House floor: "I rise today to bring attention to Majd Kamalmaz, an American being held by Syria’s dictator, Bashar al-Assad. In February 2017, Majd was detained by Syrian police while visiting the country for the funeral of his father-in-law. When I spoke to Majd’s children last week they told me they had tried to convince him not to go to Syria, but their father has always put others before himself. "Majd’s personal motto is 'be in peace,' and that motto has been on display throughout his life with his work to help disaster victims in places like Kosovo, Indonesia, Lebanon, and the Southern U.S. after Hurricane Katrina. Majd’s children have not seen or heard from their father for nearly two years. I echo their call and plea with President Trump to do what he can to ensure their father is safely returned home." Background: The full text of the letter submitted to the president can be found HERE. Madj Kamalmaz's story was recently featured on PBS News Hour which can be viewed HERE.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), introduced H.R. 758, the Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act, which provides protections for financial institutions against regulatory agency backlash due to cooperation with a federal or state law enforcement agency. Following introduction of the bill, Rep. Hill issued the following statement: "More than ever, financial institutions have the potential to play a pivotal role in helping law enforcement bring criminals to justice. However, due to outdated regulations, banks that cooperate with law enforcement agencies risk being penalized by regulators while assisting with an ongoing criminal investigation. "As a former community banker, I have dealt with this conflict of wanting to help law enforcement agencies when receiving a ‘Keep Open Letter,’ while not being able to because of the need to comply with the requirements set forth by a regulator. H.R. 758 is a commonsense solution that allows financial institutions and law enforcement to better cooperate in order to prosecute bad actors wanting to use the American financial system for their criminal acts." Background: The full text of H.R. 758 can be found HERE. The Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act would provide protections for financial institutions against regulatory agency backlash due to cooperation with a federal or state law enforcement agency. Similar legislation was introduced by Rep. Hill in the 115th Congress that was overwhelmingly passed in the House by a vote of 379-4.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the president and Congressional leaders announced an agreement to reopen the government and continue negotiations on securing the southwest border: "Today, the president took an important step towards ending the government shutdown that has affected families in Arkansas and across the nation. Congress is acting swiftly to make whole the federal workers who have missed their paychecks. Shutting down the government should never be a solution to a political problem, and I am confident that the president and members of Congress, on both sides of the aisle, will find a practical solution that will protect Arkansas families and secure our southwest border. This should include continuing the 25-year policy of building a physical barrier where needed, upgrading our screening and surveillance technology, and increasing border agents and immigration judges.”
01.24.2019	Click on the picture above to watch Rep. Hill's remarks before leading the House in a reading of the U.S. Constitution. WASHINGTON D.C. — This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) led the House of Representatives in reading the full text of the U.S. Constitution. Rep. Hill was joined by 16 of his colleagues during the special hour on the House floor Wednesday afternoon. Prior to the reading, Rep. Hill gave the following remarks: "In 1878, longtime British Prime Minister, William Gladstone, described the U.S. Constitution as, 'the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by brain and purpose of man.' For two centuries the Constitution has dedicated the structure of our remarkable republic and created the operation of 'the consent of the governed' and the protection of a free people’s individual rights. "All of us that work here in the People’s House marvel at its daily majesty, of James Madison’s checks and balances, separation of powers, and the institutional hybrid of federalism. Today, we gather at the Capitol, the heart of Article I, the first branch, to read our governing document."
01.22.2019	Click on the picture above to watch Rep. Hill's remarks from the House floor today. WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed bipartisan legislation cosponsored by Congressman French Hill (AR-02), H.R. 31, the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act, which will impose new sanctions on Syrian human rights abusers and those who facilitate the regime’s atrocities. Prior to passage of the bill, Rep. Hill delivered remarks from the House floor in support of the legislation. Highlights of Rep. Hill's remarks, as prepared, are copied below: "The world has witnessed many examples of butchery and genocide by menaces, including Hitler, Stalin, Mao, and many others. But the last eight years have allowed us to recognize a new name for evil and cruelty in this millennia: Bashar al-Assad and his Russian and Iranian collaborators. "Until President Trump’s strategic airstrikes, the world blustered and twiddled while these modern menaces murdered the innocent civilian population of Syria. Systematically, they bombed, bludgeoned, gassed, electrocuted, and tortured their own people. "I commend President Trump for his leadership to carry out airstrikes against mass murder. So, I call on him again to strengthen his resolve against Assad’s barbarous acts and to think of the innocent Syrian people that face these terrible atrocities nearly every day. Finally, I call on the Senate to act with expedition and pass this legislation and not waste any more time in bringing Assad and his co-conspirators to justice." Background: The full text of the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act can be found HERE. This legislation imposes new sanctions on Syrian human rights abusers and those who facilitate the regime’s atrocities. It also authorizes the State Department to support entities that are collecting and preserving the chain of evidence for eventual prosecution of those who have committed war crimes in Syria since the war began in 2011. The Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act is named in honor of the former Syrian military photographer “Caesar” who risked his life to document Assad’s horrific brutality and revealed his findings to members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
01.19.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (AR-02) penned the following op-ed for the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, calling on the Arkansas General Assembly to enhance federally designated Opportunity Zones by enacting legislation that would create state tax incentives for investment. This legislation would compliment the powerful federal incentives created by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The full text of the Congressman’s op-ed is listed below. Seize Opportunity: State Can Revive Low-income Areas By: Rep. French Hill January 19, 2019 Just over a year ago, the pro-growth Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 was signed into law. In addition to the tax cuts that benefited both families and small businesses in Arkansas, the legislation also established qualified Opportunity Zones. These zones are designed to attract companies and businesses to invest in economically distressed communities through federal government tax incentives such as eliminating the capital gains tax. There's a direct relationship between incentivizing investment in low-income communities and fostering economic revitalization and job creation. Opportunity Zones were a vision of former Housing and Urban Development Secretary and Congressman Jack Kemp. I had the privilege to work with and be mentored by Secretary Kemp when I worked in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. One of Secretary Kemp's disappointments was never being able to witness his vision become a reality. Fortunately, for Arkansans and citizens across the country, we now can take advantage of Secretary Kemp's innovative vision. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act authorized the creation of over 8,700 Opportunity Zones consisting of nearly 35 million Americans spread across the country. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin predicts $100 billion in capital will be invested into these areas. President Trump also recently signed an executive order establishing the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council, which will be chaired by Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson. The council will engage with all levels of government on ways to better use public funds to revitalize low-income communities. In Arkansas, Gov. Asa Hutchinson designated 85 Opportunity Zones, including 14 areas in the 2nd Congressional District, with eight in Pulaski County alone. New capital investment can benefit all Arkansans. To expand the power of these Opportunity Zones within our state and ensure proper execution, I encourage Arkansas' General Assembly to pass companion legislation that would provide state-level tax incentives and benefits further spurring investment, job creation, and economic revitalization in our communities. States like Ohio and South Carolina have already considered state-level counterpart legislation. Ohio's legislation creates a 10 percent state tax credit for taxpayers who invest in Ohio-based Opportunity Zones, while South Carolina's creates a 25 percent state-level tax credit for companies that invest in their Opportunity Zones. Puerto Rico, which has suffered significant devastation recently, also has comprehensive legislation that, in addition to private investment incentives, would provide benefits to businesses already operating within Opportunity Zones. Examples include a 20 percent tax on the net income; exempt-interest dividends; partial exemption in license fees and property taxes; 100 percent exemption from construction taxes; and the creation of a transferable investment credit of up to 15 percent for priority projects. Using Puerto Rico's model, Arkansas can go one step further to create local-level incentives in addition to the state level. I urge county and city governments to find innovative benefits to encourage companies to start or relocate their business in Opportunity Zones located in their jurisdictions. Incentives could be anything from reducing regulatory burdens, lowering utility costs, zoning incentives, and tax abatements. There is no limit of innovative options, and I look forward to working with our state and local governments to find mutually beneficial solutions. These Opportunity Zones have created a unique opportunity for Arkansas to have an influx of private capital that we otherwise would not be able to secure. I want to ensure we are doing everything within our power to successfully revitalize these areas within our state. If the Arkansas General Assembly successfully passes legislation that provides additional state- and local-level incentives for Opportunity Zone investment, our state will serve as a model that many other states will then look to as an example. Furthermore, state-level legislation can pave the way for local action. As the General Assembly convenes, let's enhance opportunities for growth in the Natural State.
01.18.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece Award for accepting inflated bids for the management of Medicare Part D plans, resulting in roughly $9.1 billion in extra payments to insurers from 2006 to 2015. “Clearly, more transparency and accountability are needed to ensure that cost forecasts for Medicare prescription-drug benefits are not wildly inflated by insurance providers," said Rep. Hill. "At a time when healthcare costs are skyrocketing, and our nation is over $20 trillion in debt, it is essential that our federal agencies act as good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars.” In the letter to the Administrator of Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Seema Verma, Congressman Hill wrote: The Honorable Seema Verma Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Blvd Baltimore, MD 21244-1849 Dear Ms. Verma: I write today to inform you that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award for accepting inflated bids for the management of Medicare Part D. These bids have resulted in roughly $9.1 billion in extra payments to insurers between 2006 through 2015. According to a recent article in the Wall Street Journal, from 2006 to 2015, insurers submitted and secured inflated bids for the administration of Medicare Part D plans, which resulted in $9.1 billion of taxpayer funds being kept by insurers. This is particularly concerning as these funds were paid out in addition to the profits already built into these bids.[1] At a time when healthcare costs are skyrocketing, and our nation is over $20 trillion in debt, it is essential that our federal agencies act as good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars. I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our Nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I would also welcome any technical assistance you could provide to Congress to correct statutory issues that have contributed to this problem. Thank you for your consideration and I look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress To view the letter, click HERE. About the Golden Fleece Award Every year, Congress appropriates trillions of dollars to fund the federal government, and every year the federal government wastes portions of these funds in unconscionable ways. In an attempt to increase accountability for every single government program, Congressman Hill decided to bring back the Golden Fleece Award. Originally introduced by Democratic U.S. Senator from Wisconsin William Proxmire in March 1975, the Golden Fleece Award was a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The Golden Fleece Award became a staple in the U.S. Senate during this time, and Senator Robert Byrd once stated that the awards were “as much a part of the Senate as quorum calls and filibusters.” In reviving this idea, the Golden Fleece Award will again have the opportunity to serve as an important reminder to taxpayers about the need for necessary, commonsense reforms to our federal spending.
01.16.2019	Click on the picture above to watch Rep. Hill's remarks today from the House floor in support of religious freedom for Coptic Christians in Egypt. WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, on Religious Freedom Day, Congressman French Hill (R-AR) introduced a resolution, H.Res.49, expressing support for Coptic Christians and religious liberty in Egypt: “Egypt and the United States are important partners in the fight against terrorism. However, we must confront the reality that Coptic Christians in Egypt do not receive the same protections under the rule of law as others. I have been on the front lines of this struggle and met with government and religious leaders throughout Egypt. While we have seen progress from Egyptian President el-Sisi, the U.S. government must use the tools it has to hold our allies to a higher standard if they are to continue to receive our aid. “All people around the world, regardless of their religious affiliation, deserve the same freedom to practice their chosen religion that we enjoy in the United States. The respect for human rights and religious freedom is a fundamental American position, and I will continue to promote this issue for Coptic Christians throughout Egypt.” Background: The full text of H.Res.49 can be found HERE. H.Res.49 acknowledges the importance of the United States-Egypt partnership in advancing our common interests, recognizes Egypt’s need for certain government reforms, and calls on the Egyptian government to end the culture of impunity and make examples by arresting, prosecuting, and convicting those responsible for attacks on Christians. It also calls on the government to hold those local government officials accountable who fail to enforce the law.
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after his legislation to enhance Arkansas’s wilderness area, the Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, was signed into law: “I’m pleased that my bill to enhance one of Arkansas’s most unspoiled landscapes, Flatside Wilderness, has been signed into law. Arkansans and visitors now have the opportunity to enjoy more of Arkansas’s natural and wild qualities, all while boosting the state’s economy. This addition is named for a tireless conservationist and advocate for Arkansas wilderness and my good friend, former Arkansas Congressman Ed Bethune. I appreciate Representative Bruce Westerman and Senator John Boozman for their efforts in helping me get my legislation across the finish line.” Background The Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, H.R. 5636, adds to the wilderness area approximately 640 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain which has been depicted as “Recommended Wilderness Additions since 2005.” These areas have been managed as wilderness land since that time. It will also name the 640-acre wilderness addition, “Bethune Woods,” in honor of former member of Congress from Arkansas, Ed Bethune, author of the House version of the 1984 Arkansas Wilderness Act. Click here to view the map of Flatside Wilderness.
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON D.C. — This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spoke on the House floor to decry the partisanship that has taken hold of our nation and remind people of the great friendship between former Speaker of the House Nick Longworth and Minority Leader John Garner. Click on the picture above to watch video of Rep. Hill's speech on the House floor this past Wednesday. Highlights of his prepared remarks are copied below: "Mr. Speaker, I look forward with optimism to the 116th Congress. I refuse to be pulled down into the vortex of negativism and profanity that is engulfing our social media and cable television programming. Instead, I am grateful for the opportunity to work to pursue policies to improve our nation. "Mr. Speaker I spent my first two terms in Congress building relationships with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate and in both political parties. I've done this based on the experiences that I had as a staffer in the 1980’s working for the U.S. Senate Banking Committee as well as my four years of service in the administration of Pres. George H.W. Bush. I value political leaders reasoning together to find common ground to tackle our nation’s policy challenges-large and small. "In this context, I host periodic, bipartisan dinners, the Longworth-Garner Dinners, so named for Nick Longworth of Cincinnati, Ohio Speaker of the House from 1925 to his untimely death in 1931 and his good friend, Congressman Jack Garner from Uvalde, Texas, Minority Leader much of the time when his friend Nick was Speaker. "These two men could not have been more different: Longworth was from a patrician family that settled in Cincinnati in the early 19th century and he was married to Teddy Roosevelt's oldest daughter, Alice. “'Cactus' Jack Garner was a rough-and-tumble Texan who worked his way up as a small-town lawyer and county judge prior to becoming a very successful member of the U.S. House. "For his part, on the untimely death of Longworth in 1931 Garner, who then became Speaker, said 'He was an aristocrat; I am a plebian. Perhaps our different rearing intensified our interest in each other. I have lost one of the best friends of a lifetime, the country a good citizen, and the Congress a most valuable legislator.' "It was 'Cactus' Jack and Nick that cooked up the tradition that each afternoon, no matter how much fighting had taken place on the floor of the House, they retreated to room H-128 of the U.S. Capitol, nicknamed the Bureau of Education, to have a drink and 'strike a blow for liberty.' "The purpose of our Longworth-Garner dinners is to get to know each other, to understand what our goals and objectives are and how we can work effectively together on the House Financial Services Committee. "I will continue this tradition during the 116th Congress and I look forward to working hand-in-hand, shoulder-to-shoulder with my colleagues both in both parties and in both chambers to move our country forward and seek to achieve to better our nation through partnership."
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON D.C.– Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement in response to the president’s oval office address on securing the southwest U.S. border: “Whether or not Democrats want to acknowledge the facts, the reality is that we have an unsustainable security crisis at our southwest border. I've visited the border numerous times and seen with my own eyes the devastating human cost of having a porous border. Security experts agree that cracking down on illegal immigration, the drug trade, and human trafficking requires more miles of physical border barrier, enhanced technology, and personnel. “Republicans are ready and willing to come to the table and negotiate in good faith with our Democratic colleagues. If we put the safety of the American people before political gamesmanship, I’m confident that we can find a practical solution that will save lives and end the partial government shutdown.”
01.04.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Steven D. Smith recently joined his staff to serve as his new Communications Director. Smith, a graduate of the Kelley School of Business at Indiana University and a Cincinnati, Ohio native, began working on Capitol Hill in 2011. He most recently served as Communications Director for immediate past House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce (CA-39) as well as for Congressman Paul Gosar (AZ-04). Prior to this, he served in the leadership office of former Speaker John Boehner. “Few communications professionals have the depth of experience and perspective that Steven brings with him, and I’m excited to have him join my team,” said Rep. Hill. “Steven will bolster my efforts to champion the voices of central Arkansans and promote a vision of a pro-growth economy and a thriving financial sector.”
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after opposing the House rules package, H.Res.6, for the 116th Congress that would make it easier to raise taxes, increase spending, and raise the debt limit with less transparency: “As the branch of government closest to the American people, the House's priorities should include increasing accountability to the people we serve. Instead, the new Democratic majority has decided to give more power to Nancy Pelosi while making it easier to raise taxes on Arkansas families and small businesses. This is clearly a step in the wrong direction and not in the best interest of the Arkansans who elected me to rein in federal spending and demand more, not less, accountability.”
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after opposing a new spending package introduced by House Democrats that failed to include adequate funding for border security: “Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer continue to put federal families at financial risk, especially border patrol officers on the front lines, who are working without pay or are furloughed. The security of Arkansans and Americans comes first which requires proper funding to protect our borders. The House did our part and voted last month to fully fund the government, including funding for Homeland Security and hurricane assistance. It’s time for Democratic leadership to come to the table and negotiate in good faith instead of playing partisan political games.”
12.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after his legislation to enhance Arkansas’s wilderness area, the Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, passed the Senate and heads to the president’s desk for his signature: Congressman Hill said: “I’m pleased that my bill to enhance one of Arkansas’s most unspoiled landscapes, Flatside Wilderness, has been sent to the president’s desk. Arkansans and visitors, young and old, should enjoy more of Flatside Wilderness and all of its natural and wild qualities. Perry County in particular offers a very special and rare opportunity for people to support our wildlife and natural resources, while also boosting the state’s economy. This addition is named for a tireless conservationist and advocate for Arkansas wilderness and my good friend, former Arkansas Congressman Ed Bethune. I appreciate Representative Bruce Westerman and Senator John Boozman for their efforts in helping me get my legislation to the finish line.” Senator John Boozman said: “This is welcome news for Arkansas outdoor enthusiasts. Protecting this land will support the beauty of the Natural State for future generations. Nobody has been a more fierce advocate for our state’s natural resources than Ed Bethune so this is also a fitting tribute to his work in Congress. I appreciate my Senate colleagues for recognizing the importance of safeguarding this landscape.” Background The Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, H.R. 5636, adds to the wilderness area approximately 640 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain which has been depicted as “Recommended Wilderness Additions since 2005.” These areas have been managed as wilderness land since that time. It will also name the 640-acre wilderness addition, “Bethune Woods,” in honor of former member of Congress from Arkansas, Ed Bethune, author of the House version of the 1984 Arkansas Wilderness Act. Additionally, Congressman Hill has proposed a U.S. Forest Service study of additional existing U.S. forest lands located in Perry County and adjacent to the Flatside Wilderness to determine their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Click here to view the map of Flatside Wilderness.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for its inability to oversee State Approving Agencies’ (SAAs) review of education and training programs at schools that enroll Post-9/11 GI Bill students and allow ineligible enrollees to participate, taking vital benefits away from veterans in need. “Hardworking Americans fund our federal agencies and they expect the government to be responsible stewards with their tax dollars and judicious in the way they operate,” said Hill. “Allowing ineligible school programs that enroll Post-9/11 GI Bill students to participate in VA’s education and training programs is not only a waste of taxpayer dollars, but also takes away resources from those veterans who actually need them. Without a fix, VA’s mismanagement could cost Arkansans and Americans $2.3 billion in improper payments over the next five years. This is unacceptable, and I call on the VA to address these concerns immediately.” Letter December 21, 2018 The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave NW Washington, DC 20420-0001 Dear Secretary Wilkie: I write today to inform you that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. According to a recent report by the VA Office of Inspector General (OIG)1, without correction, the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) could issue an estimated $2.3 billion in improper payments to ineligible programs over the next five years. The OIG conducted this audit to determine if VA and State Approving Agencies (SAAs) were effectively reviewing education and training programs that enrolled Post-9/11 GI bill students to ensure only eligible programs participated. Based on its review, the OIG estimated that 86 percent of SAAs did not adequately oversee the education and training programs to make certain only eligible programs participated. This is unacceptable, and VA must do better. The OIG report includes recommendations to address this issue, and I urge you, in your role as VA Secretary, to review this report and work to adhere to the VAOIG’s recommendations to ensure that critical funds for our Nation’s veterans are not wasted on these improper payments. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue.
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement regarding Secretary of Defense James Mattis’ decision to resign: “I am disappointed to see Secretary Mattis go. He has served our country with utmost distinction, and America is safer and stronger because of his leadership. His voice in our national security councils was wise, steady, and respected. We, as a nation, are indebted to Secretary Mattis for his lifetime of service to our country, and I’m thankful for his patriotism, courage, and integrity, which has set a high bar for all future leaders in his position.”
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement opposing the president’s decision to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan: “The Taliban has been increasing its gains in Afghanistan, and I believe that withdrawing U.S. troops now will allow the Taliban to gather strength and expand even further. A withdrawal at this time undermines our accomplishments against terrorism and does not honor the 2,500 American men and women who have lost their lives fighting to make the world safer for Americans and all people. Further, in my view, only America’s strong military engagement with our NATO allies can press for a negotiated peace in this war-torn nation. “I visited Afghanistan in 2015, and I am especially concerned for civilians like Naheed Esar, a native of Jalalabad, Afghanistan, with whom I was able to take tea with while in Kabul. The indomitable spirit of her and her family has resulted in Naheed's successful graduation from the University of Arkansas as a Fulbright Scholar with a master's degree in cultural anthropology. Today, she is in her home country pursuing a career as an independent researcher and writer. Her story should remind all of us that there can be a future with a free Afghanistan and that now is not the time to abandon these civilians to the Taliban.”
12.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after supporting the bipartisan criminal justice reform bill, the First Step Act, which the president signed into law today: “Since I came to Congress in 2015, I have actively worked with groups like Arkansas Baptist College, Restore Hope, Goodwill, Shorter College, the Exodus Project, and many more on ways we can better tackle crime, help lower recidivism rates, assist incarcerated Arkansans successfully shift back to society, while promoting individual opportunity. Through my Community Empowerment Initiative (CEI), I have brought together over 100 community members and have conducted more than 25 site visits throughout central Arkansas and around the country. “I am pleased that the president signed this bill into law today, marking this a crucial step for criminal justice reform. This issue transcends partisan boundaries, and I believe that all Arkansans and Americans in good standing with the law, regardless of their environment or background, deserve the opportunity to improve their lives. By implementing more opportunities for education and skill development, this bill offers incarcerated Americans and Arkansans aid in living better lives.” Background The First Step Act, S. 756, reduces recidivism and promotes rehabilitation by encouraging inmates to participate in educational and vocational training, and by improving conditions in federal prisons. Specifically, the bill does the following: Providing every inmate with an individualized plan of evidence-based programming geared specifically toward recidivism reduction; Allowing low-risk inmates to serve time toward the end of their sentences in either a halfway house in home confinement, easing their transitions back into their families and communities; Codifying a prohibition on shackling female prisoner who are pregnant, giving birth, or in postpartum recovery; Requiring inmates to be placed in facilities closer to their families to encourage visitation and assist in maintaining familial and community ties. Retroactively extending the reductions in sentencing disparity between crack-cocaine and powder-cocaine, as codified in the 2010 Fair Sentencing Act. Lowering the mandatory minimum for “three strikes” penalties from life to twenty-five years. Expanding the scope of so-called “safety valves,” giving federal judges discretion in imposing mandatory minimums for low-level nonviolent drug offenders. The policies in this bill build upon state reforms in Georgia, Texas, Alabama, and others.
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the year-end continuing resolution that includes disaster funding and $5 billion to fund U.S. border security measures: “The safety of Arkansans and Americans comes first and foremost. I've visited the southwest border four times, and I can personally attest to the need for adequate border security funding, including more miles of physical border barrier, enhanced technology, and personnel. We owe it to the American people to secure our borders as we strive to keep our families safe. Keeping our borders secure is vital for deterring terrorists and drug cartels from entering our country illegally, and that’s why I support this proposal.”
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement regarding the comprehensive farm bill agreed to by the House and Senate: “Agriculture is Arkansas’s number one economic industry, and I am proud to support the passage of this year’s comprehensive farm bill that brings much needed security and support to hardworking Arkansas farm families. Farmers benefit from programs funded through this bill including commodity, conservation, and research programs. We take pride in what we produce in our state, and I will continue supporting our farmers and ranchers who produce agricultural products that are second to none. “With that said, while the bill makes significant improvements to the nutrition title and the SNAP program, I was disappointed that a statutory framework for enhancing opportunities for work was not included. I look forward to the United States Department of Agriculture’s approach to help able-bodied recipients find work, get the education they need, or volunteer.” Background This farm bill does the following: Reauthorizes and strengthens the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC), Price Loss Coverage (PLC), and Marketing Assistance Loans (MAL) options for the next five years. Provides a strengthened safety net for farmers and ranchers, authorizing and restoring funding for vital tools for trade promotion and market development, and maintains long-standing legal authority for the secretary to aid farmers and ranchers affected by unfair foreign trading practices. Prioritizes working-land conservation by retaining and folding the best features of the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) into the nation’s flagship incentive-based program for voluntary conservation -- the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). Protects crop insurance as well as streamlining and reducing regulatory burdens. Authorizes substantial annual appropriations for rural broadband. Requires the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to establish broadband standards. It would also strengthen the suite of rural development initiatives to promote jobs and economic activity in rural America. Establishes a new National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program designed to protect the health of the nation’s livestock sector. Reduces catastrophic wildfire risk and will provides more timber management tools at the state and county levels. Preserves the Administration’s regulatory flexibility on SNAP, including USDA’s ability to reign in states who abuse the waiver process. Establishes a National Accuracy Clearinghouse to prevent SNAP recipients from receiving SNAP benefits from multiple states. Authorizes the USDA to audit and inspect state records related to SNAP.
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting a bill, the IMPROVE Act, which helps children with complex medical conditions receive better access to the health care they need: “Our nation’s sickest children deserve a fighting chance to live, and this bill helps America’s children with complex medical conditions receive the care they need. It cuts through red tape by allowing families and children to cross state lines and receive medical attention and access to medical professionals for specialized care. As a father and former board member of Arkansas Children’s Hospital, I’m pleased to support this piece of legislation that gives our most vulnerable children the attention and care they deserve.” Background The IMPROVE Act, H.R. 7217, does the following: Provides additional Medicaid expansion for coordinated care for certain groups of children with complex medical conditions. Provides for an extension of the Money Follows the Person program. Delays the application of competitive bid pricing with Complex Rehab Technology accessories and includes provisions to offset spending increases.
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – The Securities and Exchange Commission recently released regulatory rules as mandated by Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) Fair Access to Investment Research Act, which was signed into law on October 6, 2017. Congressman Hill made the following statement regarding the final rule: “I’m pleased that my legislation opened up research of the rapidly growing exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to be publicly available, which allows Main Street investors to enhance their knowledge about investment options. The FAIR Act Rules provide a common-sense fix to current law barriers by removing unnecessary burdens that have prevented investors from accessing helpful market information. I’ve personally seen the research produced by financial services firms, and am pleased that retail investors both in Arkansas and across the country now have access to it.” Background: The Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules and amendments designed to promote research on mutual funds, exchange‑traded funds, registered closed-end funds, business development companies, and similar covered investment funds. These changes reduce obstacles to providing research on investment funds by harmonizing the treatment of such research with research on other public companies. The Commission took this action in furtherance of the mandate in the Fair Access to Investment Research Act of 2017 (FAIR Act).
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the passing of President George H.W. Bush: “It’s with heavy hearts that Martha and I mourn the passing of a loyal friend, mentor, and faithful servant, President George H.W. Bush. We lift up the Bush family during this time of grieving and honor the remarkable life and legacy of a strong leader and diplomat, a great father, and an American patriot. “In our early careers, we treasured working for him on his campaigns and the humbling responsibility of serving on his White House staff. We were grateful for his daily example of goofy humor, courtesy, friendship, and passion for writing handwritten thank-you notes. Truly, President George H.W. Bush and Mrs. Bush were the ideal neighbors, members of the PTA, and the answer to the question on that common form at school or work, ‘in case of emergency, please call...’ “We loved him very much.”
11.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting two bipartisan bills that condemn war crimes in Syria and impose additional sanctions on Iranians who threaten peace and stability in Iraq: “The Syrian dictator Assad and the Mullahs in Iran must be held accountable for their war crimes, genocide, and other grave injustices against the Syrian and Iraqi people. Their destabilizing activities are a threat to America and our allies, especially Israel. I will continue to support action in Congress to hold these perpetrators accountable and to provide much needed relief to their innocent victims. “I continue to call on the Senate to pass the Caesar Syria Civilian Protection Act, which the House passed in May of last year, to preserve records for future investigations into war criminals in Syria.” Background Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act, H.R. 390, provides for emergency relief to victims of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes in Iraq and Syria, and provides accountability against perpetrators of these crimes. The Preventing Destabilization of Iraq Act, H.R. 4591, imposes sanctions with respect to Iranian persons that threaten the peace or stability of Iraq or the Government of Iraq.
11.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after his legislation, H.R. 5636, the Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, which enhances Arkansas’s wilderness area, passed the House unanimously: “Arkansans and visitors, young and old, should enjoy more of one of Arkansas’s most unspoiled landscapes - Flatside Wilderness – which is why I’ve championed this bill. Perry County in particular offers a very special and rare opportunity for people to support our wildlife and natural resources, while also boosting the state’s economy. I’m pleased to name this addition for a tireless conservationist and advocate for Arkansas wilderness and my good friend, former Arkansas Congressman Ed Bethune. “I thank Chairman Rob Bishop of the House Natural Resources Committee and Congressman Bruce Westerman for their help in advancing my bill. I look forward to working with the Senate to get it across the finish line and onto the president’s desk for his signature.” Background The Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, H.R. 5636, would add to the wilderness area approximately 640 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain which has been depicted as “Recommended Wilderness Additions since 2005.” These areas have been managed as wilderness land since that time. It will also name the 640-acre wilderness addition, “Bethune woods,” in honor of former member of Congress from Arkansas, Ed Bethune, author of the House version the 1984 Arkansas Wilderness Act. Additionally, Congressman Hill has proposed a U.S. Forest Service study of additional existing U.S. forest lands located in Perry County and adjacent to the Flatside Wilderness to determine their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Click here to view the map of Flatside Wilderness.
11.12.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced the establishment of the John Paul Hammerschmidt Service Award, which will recognize a member (or members) of Hill’s staff for outstanding service to Arkansas and the Office. The 2018 winner is Tom McNabb, Director of Military and Veterans Affairs and Deputy District Director for Hill, for his outstanding service to Arkansas’s veterans, including the homeless veteran population. Hill said: “I am proud to award the John Paul Hammerschmidt Service Award to Tom in recognition of his unwavering dedication to Arkansas’s veterans through his personal engagement on their behalf as well as through leadership of a team of three other veterans who have recovered nearly $4 million for Arkansas’s veterans this year alone. Over the past year, Tom, a combat veteran himself, has personally spearheaded a new outreach initiative, which has led to nearly two dozen specialty veterans outreach events, increasing the number of veterans we are able to help. John Paul, a WWII veteran, himself, would be proud of Tom’s dedication to the people of Arkansas and his service to our nation.” John Arthur Hammerschmidt, son of John Paul Hammerschmidt, said: “My dad did a remarkable job serving those he represented, especially the veterans community in Arkansas, but he couldn’t have done it without dedicated team members. Like my father, Tom served in our nation’s military, so he understands the challenges veterans face and is devoted to ensuring they receive the benefits and care they were promised. This is testament to Rep. Hill’s leadership and his priority in helping our nation’s heroes. I’m honored that this award is named after my father, and I’m grateful to play a role in honoring Tom for his great work.”
11.09.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02), Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge (CAC), announced Clinton High School student David Saavedra as the winner of the 2018 App Challenge for Arkansas’s Second Congressional District. Saavedra created a specially designed app called, ERNY (Emergency Response Near You), which helps local fire departments locate fire hydrants by providing on and offline mapping and information on fire hydrant locations. ERNY will be featured on StudentAppChallenge.us and exhibited on a digital display at the U.S. Capitol next Spring. View here. “I continue to be impressed with the broad array of STEM talent and knowledge our high school students have here in central Arkansas,” said Hill. “There were over 28 apps submitted, and I want to congratulate David on a job well done. His app not only entails complicated coding, but it also serves as a way to increase public safety. I appreciate all the bright students who poured in their time, effort, and energy into creating their apps, and I’m grateful to see how engaged they are in the STEM fields.” The Congressional App Challenge is designed to engage student creativity and encourage participation in STEM-based fields. Established by members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that allows high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or app, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on the platform of their choice. Apps were judged based on the following criteria: quality of idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills.
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Natalie Schulte has joined his staff as a Press Assistant. Schulte, originally from Houston, Texas, graduated May 2018 from the University of Texas at Austin with a bachelor’s degree in Corporate Communications at the Moody College of Communications. Schulte’s previous professional experience includes being a Communications Aide for Texas State Representative Valoree Swanson (TX-150) and a Press Assistant for U.S. Representative Kevin Brady (TX-08), Chairman of the U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means. “Natalie joins my team with exemplary communications experience, a strong work ethic, and utmost professionalism, which I’m confident will add a great deal of value to my team,” said Hill. “We’re all excited to have someone with her talents and caliber on board to help serve the good people of central Arkansas.”
11.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the president reimposed tough sanctions on Iran that were lifted under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “Iran is run by a rogue regime that poses a serious threat to our nation and our allies, and I strongly support the president reimposing sanctions that were lifted under the Iran nuclear deal. America will not tolerate Iran’s mullahs’ corruption, gross violations of human rights, support for terrorism, illegal testing of ballistic missiles, and its nefarious activities in the region. Enough is enough, and until Iran changes, these sanctions will remain in place.”
11.01.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the U.S. Department of Defense’s (DoD) Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for failing to complete a congressionally mandated audit for the second year in a row. “Not once, but twice the DLA failed to complete a congressionally mandated audit,” said Hill. “This is absolutely unacceptable. Audits are essential to ensure that agencies are being efficient and cost-effective with hardworking taxpayer dollars. I call on the DLA to take seriously congressional mandates that are vital to a healthy, functioning agency.” Letter Lieutenant General Darrell K. Williams, USA Director Defense Logistics Agency 8725 John J. Kingman Rd Andrew T. McNamara Building Fort Belvoir, VA 22060-6217 Dear General Williams: I write today to inform you that your agency is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to the U.S. Department of Defense’s (DOD) Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) for failing to complete an independent audit for the second year in a row. As detailed in a 2017 report by independent public accountant (IPA) Ernst and Young (EY), EY could not “…obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to support…” an IPA audit report and was unable to complete the Congressionally-mandated audit. Some of the more concerning aspects of the report include improper documentation for $100 million in internal use software assets, such as CRM tools and payroll systems, and nearly $850 million in construction projects that cannot be corroborated because of insufficient financial documentation and misstatements within those documents that were available. Furthermore, according to the September/October 2018 edition of DLA’s newsletter, DLA has not “…[completed] or …[implemented] its Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) for the material weaknesses identified during the fiscal year (FY) 2017 financial statement audits,” preventing EY from providing an audit opinion for FY 2018. DLA employs 27,000 people and managed over $35 billion in goods and services last year. The notice in the DLA newsletter marks the second “disclaimer of opinion”, in lieu of a full audit opinion, from the IPA for the DLA in two years. In 2017, auditors were unable to complete their review because of a lack of supporting documentation that hindered their ability to verify the information on DLA’s financial statements. It is baffling to see an incomplete review for near-identical reasons for a second year. Our federal agencies must be good stewards of our federal taxpayer dollars, and I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our Nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress
10.31.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced the launch of the Independent Community Bankers of America (ICBA) and the Venture Center’s ThinkTech Accelerator during their joint press conference today. The Venture Center, in partnership with the ICBA and the State of Arkansas, are collaborating to create a community bank-focused Fintech accelerator program. This is the only accelerator program in the nation with a focus on community bank innovation in the digital age. “I’m proud of the effort of the Venture Center, ICBA, and the State of Arkansas to make ThinkTech Accelerator a reality,” said Hill. “This is the kind of innovation the industry needs as we help to modernize and streamline financial services firms. Little Rock continues to be on the forefront of technology, and I’m confident this partnership will boost our state’s economy, strengthen community banks, and attract even more tech talent to our state – which all directly helps and impacts central Arkansans.” Background: This first-of-its-kind Fintech accelerator will provide an outlet for community banks to directly engage and partner with early-stage Fintech companies focusing exclusively on community bank product development and solutions. With a revitalized and growing downtown area, access to tech talent, low cost of living and the support of the local community, Little Rock is a technology hub haven. The city has a strong history of creating global players in Fintech and Big Data, which in return has created a strong hub for community banks. With the addition of the ICBA ThinkTech Accelerator, the Venture Center will continue to help nurture and grow young tech companies into large, national players in the technology industry.
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02), a member of the Congressional Dyslexia Caucus, signed on as an original cosponsor of a resolution calling on Congress, schools, and local educational agencies to recognize the significant educational implications of dyslexia and expressing support for the designation of October 2018 as National Dyslexia Awareness Month. “With estimates of ‘one in five’ having dyslexia, it’s imperative that we raise further awareness of dyslexia, which is why I’m in strong support of this resolution,” said Hill. “People of all ages have dyslexia, and this is an important issue that affects fifty percent of NASA’s employees; and, they are among our most creative and intelligent leaders. We must promote education policies that allow for all children to learn regardless of diagnosis. Dyslexia occurs in our own family, and I know firsthand the importance of teachers and therapists utilizing the best strategies for dyslexic students to learn and be successful.”
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after receiving a letter from Preserve Arkansas with support on Congressional action to address back logs in National Parks: “Recently, I was on Ray Tucker and Bryan Hendricks’ Arkansas Outdoors radio show. We discussed greater support of wildlife conservation and efforts to meet the demands of maintenance back logs in our national parks. I was pleased to receive this recent letter from Preserve Arkansas on the need for Congressional action because I’m deeply committed to protecting and improving our national parks.” Letter
10.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), issued the following statement after the president signed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a comprehensive bill to fight the opioid epidemic, into law: “We’ve been working hard to combat the current prescription drug and opioid crisis. Today marks successful progress with the president signing into law this comprehensive opioid bill that includes nearly 60 individual pieces of legislation we passed in the House this year with my support. With overdoses now killing as many Americans every 10 months as in the 15 years of the Vietnam War, we are taking significant steps to provide Arkansans and Americans with the help they need. “This comprehensive bill also expands access to addiction treatment and prevention programs and enhances law enforcement efforts to curtail the trafficking of illegal drugs. I’m particularly pleased that this measure includes similar provisions from my bill I introduced earlier this year, H.R. 5459, the Ending the Fentanyl Crisis Act, which targets the flow of fentanyl into our country through the mail system from China and Mexico. Through careful legislation and community engagement in central Arkansas and across the country, we can help save the lives of our loved ones and continue to fight this terrible epidemic.” Background: The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, H.R. 6, passed the House by a vote of 396-14 in June. The Senate passed a version of this bill on September 17, 2018, and on September 28, 2018, the House passed the final bicameral, bipartisan, negotiated legislation, which combats the opioid crisis in a number of ways. President Trump signed this legislation into law, which does the following: Lifts for 5 years the prohibition on Medicaid payments for substance abuse treatment in facilities with more than 16 beds. Allows hospice employees to dispose of opioids after a patient’s death. Expands access to medication-assisted substance abuse treatment. Secures our mail system from shipments of fentanyl and other dangerous synthetic drugs coming from China and Mexico.
10.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the administration formally notified Congress of its plan to enter into trade negotiations with the United Kingdom consistent with Congressional priorities. “I’m pleased to hear the good news that the United States and the United Kingdom will be entering trade negotiations. We are the first and fifth largest economies in the world, respectively, and by working on trade priorities consistent with Congressional objectives, I’m confident that we will grow, expand, and improve opportunities that both benefit American workers and those in the United Kingdom. I’ve had the privilege of working closely with UK Member of Parliament Rehman Chishti on ways to better strengthen the U.S.-U.K. friendship through bilateral trade, economic opportunities, and more. “Although I am pleased to see the administration begin negotiations with America’s economic allies, I have offered a constructive review of the administration’s approach on steel and aluminum tariffs and will continue to encourage the administration to ensure our trade policy is mutually beneficial for our economic allies and American workers.” Background In a September 28, 2018 letter, Congressman Hill urged U.S. Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross and U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, recommending a different approach in regard to steel and aluminum tariffs, and to also focus on China in a multilateral manner with allies such as Canada, the U.K., the EU, and Japan. On September 26, 2018, Congressman Hill issued a statement on the U.S.-Japan bilateral trade discussions. On July 26, 2018, Congressman Hill issued a statement on the U.S.-EU trade relations.
10.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the president awarded United States Marine Corps Sergeant Major John L. Canley from Caledonia, Arkansas, with the Medal of Honor for conspicuous gallantry in 1968 during the Vietnam War. “Sergeant Major Canley didn’t run away from danger, but towards it. Though wounded, he put himself directly in the line of enemy fire to protect his fellow Marines - placing the lives of his comrades in front of his own. I’m pleased that the president presented Sergeant Major Canley today with the well-deserved Medal of Honor for his service, patriotism, and display of selfless leadership.” Background The Medal of Honor is awarded by the president, in the name of Congress, to members of the Armed Forces who distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty. Sergeant Major Canley is a decorated war hero for his valiant efforts while protecting his company and fellow marines. In addition to the Medal of Honor, he earned a Bronze Star with combat “V,” a Purple Heart, the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with combat “V,” and the Combat Action Ribbon.
10.11.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas - Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the passing of Arkansas’s ‘Hidden Figure’, Raye Montague. Montague was a civilian engineer who worked for the U.S. Navy, changing how U.S. Navy ships were made and used after learning to use an IBM computer on her own. She received the third highest Navy recognition given to a civilian, the Meritorious Civilian Service Award, and is in the Arkansas Women’s Hall of Fame. “Arkansas lost an influential female role model who was an engineer pioneer and trailblazer for women. She pushed through obstacles and paved her own path in the U.S. Navy even though odds were against her. Raye’s story shows us that, with perseverance and determination, there’s nothing one cannot achieve. While, she will be dearly missed, her legacy lives on.”
10.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece Award for wasting over $10 million on ‘unwarranted medical reexaminations for disability benefits.’ “Giving unnecessary, redundant examinations is not only a waste of taxpayer dollars, but it also takes away resources from those who actually need them,” said Hill. “The VA can do better. That’s why I have four full-time veterans on my staff to assist our heroes with the care and benefits they’ve earned. This kind of careless, wasteful spending cannot be tolerated. Every government agency must be judicious in how they use taxpayer dollars, and the VA should be held to an even higher standard, as they’re entrusted to assist our nation’s heroes with their essential needs.” Letter The Honorable Robert Wilkie Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave NW Washington, DC 20420-0001 Dear Secretary Wilkie: I write today to inform you that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to VA for its waste of over $10 million on unwarranted reexaminations. According to a recent report by the VA Office of Inspector General (OIG), the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) spent an estimated $10.1 million on unwarranted reexaminations from March 2017 through August 2017. Further, OIG estimated that VBA would waste an additional $100.6 million over the next five years unless it ensures that VBA employees only request reexaminations when necessary. According to VBA policy, employees can request reexaminations for veterans when there is a need to verify a current disability. However, before requesting a medical reexamination, VBA policy requires a Rating Veterans Service Representative to review the veteran’s claims folder and determine whether a reexamination is needed. The OIG report estimated that 78 percent of unwarranted reexaminations lacked a pre-exam review. This is unacceptable, and VA must do better. The OIG report includes recommendations to address this issue, and I urge you, in your new role as VA Secretary, to review this report and work to adhere to the VAOIG’s recommendations to ensure that critical funds for our Nation’s veterans are not wasted on these unwarranted reexaminations. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON - The Small Business Investor Alliance (SBIA), the leading association of lower middle market private equity funds and investors, today recognized Congressman French Hill (AR-02) for his support of small business investment and presented him with SBIA’s Champion of Small Business Investing Award. Hill is among a group of select Members of Congress being honored by SBIA for their support of investors in small business. “When there’s more capital available and less government red tape, job creators have room to grow and expand, which spurs on our local and national economies,” said Hill. “Small businesses are the backbone of our nation’s success, and I’m proud to support legislation and initiatives that encourage job creation and growth, better paying jobs, and more better benefits for employees and their families. I thank SBIA for this honor.” “Congressman Hill has been an incredible advocate for investment in America’s small businesses through his support of the Business Development Company (BDC) industry,” said SBIA President Brett Palmer. “Small business investors empower small business growth and job creation across the country, and the legislative work of our Small Business Champions in Congress has been instrumental to facilitating greater capital access for America’s entrepreneurs.” BDCs provide critical growth capital to American small businesses to help them expand their operations and create jobs; they currently have more than $306 million invested in Arkansas small businesses. Pictured left to right: Larry Carter (SBIA Member, Managing Director of Diamond State Ventures), Congressman French Hill, Joe Hays (SBIA Member, Managing Director of Diamond State Ventures), Tyler Bozynski (SBIA Member, Vice President of Diamond State Ventures).
10.09.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas - Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Chelsea Perry has joined his office in Conway. Chelsea, a native of Powder Springs, Georgia, is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force with a deployment to Qatar in 2014. She will serve as Rep. Hill’s District Representative for Military and Veterans Affairs. Chelsea was born in Kailua, Hawaii, and joined the Air Force in 2010 after graduating from high school in Georgia in 2009. In the Air Force she served as a Knowledge Operations Manager. After her deployment in 2014, she was honorably discharged. She is a 2018 graduate of Saint Leo University with a Bachelor’s degree in Healthcare Management. Most recently, she was working at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta, Georgia. “I am blessed to have on my staff three – now four – dedicated veterans helping our heroes get the care and benefits they deserve, and Chelsea will be an outstanding addition to the team,” said Hill. “Chelsea is highly qualified with a knowledge of the VA and experience serving our country in the U.S. Air Force – something that will be particularly helpful to the men and women of Little Rock Air Force Base here in central Arkansas. Having talented and enthusiastic members on my staff is crucial to our mission to providing central Arkansas veterans with timely responses and outstanding assistance to all of their requests and issues.”
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman Steve Womack (AR-03) sent a letter to the National Park Service advocating for long-term health, preservation, and upkeep of the Buffalo National River: “Algae growth has plagued our nation’s first national river and one of Arkansas’s most prized rivers, Arkansas’s Buffalo National River,” said Hill. “Not only is the Buffalo National River the ultimate icon of the Natural State, it is an essential economic engine for the Ozark region. Protecting this watershed is vital for the ability of Arkansans and visitors to enjoy this beautiful free-flowing resource. I look forward to hearing Acting Director Smith’s response to my questions, and I am committed to taking additional action to ensure the Buffalo National River is protected and preserved for future generations.” "The Buffalo National River is an Arkansas treasure and invaluable part of our state,” said Congressman Womack (AR-03). “Residents and visitors spend countless time enjoying this precious resource. It also contributes to the economic strength of our region. This inquiry will help us evaluate water quality and management, and I look forward to updates on the issue. It’s important that we ensure the enjoyment of America’s first national river for generations to come.” Click here to view, letter.
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after reports that Canada agreed to sign onto a trade deal between the United States and Mexico to revamp the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA): "I was pleased to see that negotiators from the United States, Mexico, and Canada have successfully concluded a three-country effort to update and reform the 1992 NAFTA agreement. Canada and Mexico are the largest trading partners for Arkansas goods and services, thus a successful three-country negotiation was essential. Further, I am pleased that a dispute resolution mechanism was included. "I look forward to studying the text of the results of the collective hard work of the negotiators."
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting a second comprehensive tax reform bill that will help to spur small business growth, provide financial security to families, and assist entrepreneurs with startup costs and capital: “Tax reform has meant real, tangible change for hardworking Arkansans and Americans. A renewed business optimism is consistent with Arkansas’s announcement this week that personal income in Arkansas grew 5.1 percent for Arkansas families in the second quarter of 2018. We’ve seen tremendous, healthy growth in our local economies in our state since we passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2017. Today, we’re keeping the momentum going by passing a second tax reform package that delivers Arkansans and Americans permanent individual tax rates, which will help boost employment opportunities and increased wages, promote start-up businesses, and allow families to save more and earlier for their futures.” Background The Tax Reform 2.0 package includes the following bills: The Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act, H.R. 6760, extends major individual income and estate tax provisions from 2017’s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that are currently scheduled to expire at the end of 2025. The Family Savings Act, H.R. 6757, includes a number of reforms to retirement accounts, similar to those from the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act and creates small universal savings accounts. Individuals would be able to contribute up to $2,500 into the accounts on an annual basis, with any withdrawals being tax free. The American Innovation Act, H.R. 6756, allows businesses to deduct their start-up costs. Firms could deduct the lesser of their start-up expenses or $20,000. The $20,000 amount would be reduced for firms with more than $120,000 in expenses. Expenses that could not be deducted immediately would be amortized over 180 months.
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), issued the following statement after supporting bipartisan opioid legislation that provides Arkansas families with more access to treatment and resources to fight the opioid crisis: “We can’t let another Arkansas family be hurt by the opioid crisis, which kills more than 115 Americans every day. I’ve met with central Arkansas families and listened to how the opioid epidemic has personally affected them, and my vote today was for them. For the 6.5 million Americans addicted to prescription drugs and the countless others who watch as loved ones struggle to get the treatment they need, today’s vote signals that more help is on the way. I’m pleased that this measure helps to curb fentanyl from coming into our country through the mail system from China and Mexico, expands access to addiction treatment and prevention programs, and beefs up law enforcement efforts to curtail the trafficking of illegal drugs.” Background: The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, H.R. 6, passed the House by a vote of 396-12 in June. The Senate passed a version of this bill on September 17, 2017, and today, the House passed the final bicameral, bipartisan, negotiated legislation, which combats the opioid crisis in a number of ways, including: Lifting for 5 years the prohibition on Medicaid payments for substance abuse treatment in facilities with more than 16 beds. Allowing hospice employees to dispose of opioids after a patient’s death. Expanding access to medication-assisted substance abuse treatment. Securing our mail system from shipments of fentanyl and other dangerous synthetic drugs coming from China and Mexico.
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting to fund the Department of Defense (DoD), Department of Labor, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and Department of Education for fiscal year 2019, along with a Continuing Resolution for the remaining funding bills through December 7, 2018: “We have a responsibility to fund the government on time because it leads to greater fiscal accountability, and with this vote, we have done that. For the first time in ten years, we’ve fully funded the Department of Defense on time. This will directly benefit Arkansas families through the 2.4 percent pay raise for our troops, enhanced programs to support our military families, and additional funds for training, readiness, and more than $200 million for the modernization and upgrade of our C-130 fleet. In addition, we fund training and employment services that includes apprenticeships, Job Corps, and programs for ex-offenders. I’m also pleased that we have provided additional resources to combat the heartbreaking opioid crisis, prioritizing the needs of Arkansans and Americans across the nation.” Background: Read the “Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 6157 - Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act” here.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) legislation to enhance Arkansas’s wilderness area, the Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, advanced out of the Natural Resources Committee today by unanimous consent. The bill is now eligible for consideration by the full House. Under authorities of the Wilderness Act of 1964 as amended by the federal Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984, Hill’s legislation places more than 600 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain into the National Wilderness Preservation System. His legislation preserves additional Arkansas wilderness areas for future generations and also will name the wilderness addition in honor of former member of Congress, Ed Bethune. “We’ve left our wilderness areas wild and roadless to make sure that they are available for exploration, camping, hunting, and hiking for this and future generations,” said Hill. “I thank my colleague, Congressman Bruce Westerman, for his help in advancing my bill that allows Arkansans and visitors, young and old, to enjoy more of one of Arkansas’s most unspoiled landscapes - Flatside Wilderness. Perry County in particular offers a very special and rare opportunity for visitors to support our wildlife and natural resources while also boosting the state’s economy. I am particularly pleased to have the honor to name this addition in recognition of a tireless conservationist and advocate for Arkansas wilderness and a dear friend, former Arkansas Congressman Ed Bethune.” “I applaud Representative Hill’s work in advancing this common-sense conservation measure,” said Congressman Bruce Westerman. “The addition of the Ed Bethune Wilderness in his district will go a long way in promoting healthy wildlife habitat and recreational opportunities in the Second Congressional District.” Background The Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, H.R. 5636, would add to the wilderness area approximately 640 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain which has been depicted as “Recommended Wilderness Additions since 2005.” These areas have been managed as wilderness land since that time. It will also name the 640-acre wilderness addition in honor of former member of Congress, Ed Bethune, one of the original House sponsors of the Arkansas Wilderness Act.’ Additionally, Congressman Hill has proposed a U.S. Forest Service study of additional lands located in Perry County and adjacent to the Flatside Wilderness to determine their suitability for inclusion in the National Wilderness Preservation System. Click here to view the map of Flatside Wilderness.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) honored Congressman French Hill (AR-02) with the “Guardian of Small Business” award for his strong and supportive voting record on policies that help to spur on small business growth across Arkansas and the nation. “After 16 years of running my own business in Arkansas, I’m in tune with the needs that our local job creators have and am committed to seeing them succeed,” said Hill. “I recently spent a day working alongside central Arkansas’s small business owners for the NFIB’s Small Business Challenge, getting an even better understanding of what we in Congress can do to help them thrive. I appreciate the NFIB’s work in advocating for our small businesses, and I thank them for this award.” Background The NFIB created the “Guardian of Small Business Award,” which is the most prestigious honor that NFIB gives, to showcase the Members of Congress who support small business issues. The NFIB advocates for the rights of small and independent business owners across state capitals and in Washington, D.C. They are a nonprofit, nonpartisan, and member-driven organization that is the voice of small businesses across the country. The NFIB represents the rights and interests of their members and is dedicated to domestic independent businesses.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after President Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced their intention to enter into negotiations for a bilateral trade agreement between the United States and Japan: “As a member of the Japan-U.S. Friendship Commission, I am pleased to see Japan and the United States announce their intentions to enter into bilateral trade negotiations. I had the pleasure of representing the United States as a negotiator in the historic bilateral talks with Japan known as the Structural Impediments Initiative (SII) during the first Bush Administration, and I am confident that a future bilateral trade agreement between the United States and Japan will only strengthen the friendship and economic partnership between our two countries.”
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR02) issued the following statement after the House passed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act, which includes his provision to spur economic growth in central Arkansas: “I am proud of the House for delivering a path for FAA modernization and appreciative that this bill includes my provision to advance the Little Rock Port’s effort to bring more economic growth to central Arkansas by freeing up land where the FAA’s VOR cone now sits. I am grateful to Senator Boozman for his partnership in ensuring FAA accountability and to see that the Little Rock Port has the opportunity to expand its property to promote economic development and job creation. The five-year FAA bill provides long-term stability in our aviation industry, puts passenger safety first, and makes important investments in our airports here in Arkansas and across the country. “Although my central Arkansas job-creating provision was included in this package, I am disappointed that nearly half of the bill includes provisions that have nothing to do with the FAA. The most concerning of these unrelated measures is the $1.7 billion for the Community Development Block Grant Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR), which has a history of waste, fraud, and abuse. The House Financial Services Committee voted 53-3 on a package of bipartisan reforms for the disaster-related CDBG program. I urge Congress to consider these badly needed reforms.” Background: The House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 302 – FAA Reauthorization Act - is a bipartisan five-year bill that reauthorizes the FAA’s accounts, making a number of changes to FAA grant programs, and amends and expands regulations related to passenger travel. In 2011, the Little Rock Port Authority received $10 million in public monies to expand the Port’s industrial park. The funds have allowed the Port to expand by over 600 acres. However, the existence of a VOR cone used for air traffic control has limited the economic potential of some of the purchased land. Once the VOR Cone is relocated, the Port of Little Rock will have access to this land for economic development projects.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the Financial Services Committee advanced his bill, the Small Business Audit Correction Act, that provides much-needed regulatory relief for small investment broker-dealers by providing an exception from certain audit requirements and reinstating previous regulations: “Often when we discuss regulatory relief in the financial services arena, we are talking about it in the vein of community banking, but so many other types of financial institutions are in need of regulatory relief, including privately-held, small non-custodial broker- dealers, which are often the gateway to the markets for Main Street businesses. That is why I am pleased the Financial Services Committee advanced my bill to provide relief to these small businesses because the current regulatory one-size-fits-all requirements has heaped additional costs and has inhibited growth for these small firms with limited human and financial resources.” Background Current regulations require all investment broker-dealers, irrespective of size, to hire a PCAOB-registered audit firm to conduct audits using significantly more complex guidelines designed for larger, public companies. Hill’s Small Business Audit Correction Act, H.R. 6021, would narrowly tailor for privately held, small non-custodial broker-dealers in good standing an exception from the requirement to hire a PCAOB-registered audit firm to meet their annual SEA Rule 17a-5 reporting obligation and would reinstate the previous regulatory audit requirements. Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR) has the companion legislation in the U.S. Senate, S. 3004.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting in support of bipartisan legislation to funds Energy and Water and Military Construction and Department of Veterans Affairs, which will now go to the president’s desk for signature: “Since coming to Congress, I have said that the only way to get control of federal spending is to take charge of it and stop funding the government through short-term spending packages that are not faithful to the priorities of Arkansans, and today we have done just that. Today’s bill marks the start of a new era – getting spending bills done on time with the proper input of Congress and the American people. This bipartisan bill puts our Arkansas and American veterans first by providing the VA with resources necessary to implement critical reforms to that improve care and service to Arkansas’s heroes. We also fund infrastructure enhancements to our inland waterways and bolster our national security efforts by strengthening our cybersecurity and nuclear weapons programs. I’m proud of our work in the House to take this first step on behalf of all Arkansans, and I look forward to the president signing this bill into law.” Background: The Conference Report for the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill equips the Army Corps of Engineers with the funding needed to improve the nation’s water infrastructure. This includes $3.2 billion for projects to update the waterways critical to facilitating commerce. Energy security is national security, and this bill helps protect our electrical grid from future attacks by putting resources toward research and development. It supports nuclear weapons security programs with $15.23 billion in funding for the Department of Energy. This bill also provides $13.5 billion to Department of Energy research and development programs, so that we can better harness our natural resources and promote energy independence. The Conference Report for the Military Construction and VA Appropriations Bill includes a total $10.3 billion for military construction projects, which is an increase of 2.4 percent from FY18 funding levels. The total number includes $1.6 billion to go toward housing the country’s 1.4 million military families, as well as $352 million for upgrading and constructing new medical facilities. It also contains $14 million for improvements to the hydrant fuel system at Little Rock Air Force Base in addition to a measure to move forward with improvements to the base’s runway. This bill provides $72.3 billion for Veterans Affairs medical care, including money specifically allocated for mental health, opioid abuse prevention, suicide prevention, and rural health programs. It also designates funds for the improved community care program being established by the reforms passed earlier this year in the VA MISSION ACT.
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill has been selected to co-chair the bipartisan House Congressional App Challenge (App Challenge). “I’m excited and honored to co-chair the Congressional App Challenge,” said Hill. “During my time in Congress, central Arkansas students have submitted for consideration more than 75 apps and two winners Anne Li and Michael Davis have come to Washington, D.C., for the national reception. I’m looking forward to helping lead the charge in encouraging students in Arkansas and across the country to use their creativity to participate and pursue in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education fields and to make this year’s App Challenge bigger and better than ever.” "Arkansas leads the nation in computer-science education, so the selection of Congressman Hill as Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge makes perfect sense,” said Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson. “The Congressional App Challenge has chosen one of the most enthusiastic advocates in Congress of STEM programs, and students and educators nationwide will benefit from French’s leadership.” Since the House App Challenge was launched in 2015, more than 7,500 high school students from across the nation. Each Congressional District holds their own competition, the winners of which participate in the annual #HouseofCode Reception in Washington, D.C., during the Spring. The Congressional Co-Chairs play a critical role in the program’s success. Co-Chair responsibilities include being the face of the App Challenge, raising awareness of App Challenge’s profile, providing Congressional offices pertinent information and details about the program, and hosting the #HouseOfCode Reception during the Spring 2019. Past winners from Arkansas’s Second Congressional District include Michael Davis and Anne Li. Submissions for this year’s competition are due October 10, 2018. Central Arkansas students may receive more information by contact Chloe Maxwell in Rep. French Hill’s office. She may be reached at (501) 324-5941 and chloe.maxwell@mail.house.gov.
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) has been recognized as a “Hero of Main Street” by the National Retail Federation (NRF) for consistently supporting public policy priorities important to the retail industry and its millions of small businesses. “Leading my own business for 16 years and in private business for over 30 years has helped me understand what kind of policies our job creators need to thrive,” said Hill. “I have proudly supported tax reform, legislation to right-size regulations, skilled workforce development, and more – all of which has helped spur on our small businesses on Main Street. I appreciate the NRF recognizing me for this award.” “Retailers and consumers are feeling good about the state of the U.S. economy, and a big part of that is the result of lawmakers who have made economic growth and job creation a top priority,” said NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay. “As a Hero of Main Street, Representative Hill truly understands that the decisions made in Washington have a real impact on local businesses and communities across the country.” Background The Hero of Main Street Award was created by NRF in 2013, and eligibility is based on key votes, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance retailers’ priorities. Recipients have supported policies that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. The National Retail Federation is the world’s largest retail trade association. Based in Washington, D.C., NRF represents discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private-sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs — 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy.
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill issued the following statement after voting in favor of the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act, which passed the House by 406-4. “As a member of Congress and a former banker, I’ve heard from many students and parents telling me their concern of skyrocketing costs of higher education and the misuse of student loans. In my view, the lack of financial education connected to the use of student loans is a key challenge. By requiring borrowers to take annual financial counseling, we are promoting financial literacy for our families and students and ensuring they understand more fully the costs of taking student loans and the impact they can have on their future.” Background The Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act, H.R. 1635, does the following: Ensures borrowers, both students and parents, who participate in the federal loan program receive interactive counseling each year that reflects their individual borrowing situation. Provides awareness about the financial obligations students and parents are accumulating by requiring borrowers to consent each year before receiving federal student loans. Informs low-income students about the terms and conditions of the Pell Grant program through annual counseling that will be provided to all grant recipients. Directs the secretary of education to maintain and disseminate a consumer-tested, online counseling tool institutions can use to provide annual loan counseling, exit counseling, and annual Pell Grant counseling. Delivers students the tools and information they need to borrow and repay their student loans in a responsible way.
08.31.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece Award for making what appears to be an estimated nearly $1 billion in improper payments to Qualified Health Plan issuers for enrollees that were either ineligible or did not have the proper documentation. “At a time when healthcare costs are skyrocketing and our nation is over $20 trillion in debt, it is essential that our federal agencies act as good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars,” said Hill. “This lack of oversight and accountability is unacceptable, and action must be taken immediately because hardworking Arkansans and Americans deserve better.” In the letter to the Administrator of Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services Seema Verma, Congressman Hill wrote: The Honorable Seema Verma Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 7500 Security Blvd Baltimore, MD 21244-1849 Dear Administrator Verma: I write today to inform you that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award for making what appears to be nearly $1 billion in improper payments. An audit released by the Office of the Inspector General this month found that in 2014 CMS authorized an estimated $434.4 million in payments to Qualified Health Plan issuers for enrollees who were not eligible for these payments and a further $504.89 million in improper financial assistance payments for enrollees without the proper documentation.[1] At a time when healthcare costs are skyrocketing and our nation is over $20 trillion in debt, it is essential that our federal agencies act as good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars. I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our Nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress To view the letter click here. [1] U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General. CMS Did Not Always Accurately Authorize Financial Assistance Payments to Qualified Health Plan Issuers In Accordance With Federal Requirements During the 2014 Benefit Year. Daniel R. Levinson. August 2018
08.29.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Financial Services Committee Whip, Congressman French Hill (R-AR), welcomed Ashley Gunn to serve on his staff as his Senior Advisor on financial services issues. Gunn, a 2010 graduate of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, earned a Bachelor of Science in Economics with a dual concentration in Real Estate and Business and Public Policy. Gunn’s professional experience includes working at Bank of America Merrill Lynch as an Investment Banking Associate, American Bankers Association as a Senior Banking Analyst, and, most recently the Mortgage Bankers Association as a Director of the Commercial / Multifamily Group. During her undergraduate studies, she was a Congressional Page in the U.S. House of Representatives and interned for the National Economic Council at the White House. “Ashley is exceptionally qualified to serve as my Senior Advisor on financial services issues, and I’m excited to have her join our team.” said Hill. “She will be invaluable to my work on the Financial Services Committee to put Arkansans on Main Street first, stop the financing of terrorism, and ensure central Arkansas job creators have access to credit and capital. Ashley brings a deep knowledge of the financial services, and I’m confident she will excel in her new role.”
08.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the announcement that the United States and Mexico have made progress on bilateral issues regarding trade negotiations: “I’m pleased to see U.S. Trade Ambassador Lighthizer make progress on negotiations between our country and Mexico on President Trump’s goal of an updated NAFTA. Hopefully, Canada will now come to the table and we can achieve a productive three-way agreement. I will carefully review and work with my colleagues in Congress, and those I represent in central Arkansas, to ensure our American workers, farmers, and job creators benefit from the ultimately proposed amendments.”
08.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the president signed into law the bipartisan FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to provide critical military funding: “I applaud the president for quickly signing into law critical funding for our military that gives military personnel a much-deserved 2.4 percent pay increase, boosts our military’s readiness, and combats global terrorism. I was proud to support this bipartisan bill in the House and am pleased that it provides more than $200 million for the modernization and upgrade of our C-130 fleet, the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard at Little Rock Air Force Base.”
08.02.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after being awarded 2018 Tom Dillard Advocacy Award by the Arkansas Historical Association. Hill said, “I’m thankful for this recognition, and I appreciate the Arkansas Historical Association’s continuous advocacy and support for the preservation of our state’s history. As a ninth-generation Arkansan, I value the study of our history because the lessons learned from the past better prepare us for the future. While representing Arkansas in Congress, I will continue to support the humanities and the study of history.” Background The Tom Dillard Advocacy Award is given annually by the Arkansas Historical Association to a person or organization who has demonstrated a sustained commitment to promoting the study, appreciation, preservation, and dissemination of Arkansas history. The award honors Tom W. Dillard’s work as an archivist, historian, writer, collector, and promoter of the teaching of Arkansas history in the state’s schools. In 1985, he became the University of Central Arkansas’s first archivist and later he founded the Butler Center for Arkansas Studies at the Central Arkansas Library System, which is located in Little Rock, Arkansas. The mission of the Arkansas Historical Association is to promote the preservation, writing, publishing, teaching, and understanding of Arkansas state history through the publication of the Arkansas Historical Quarterly as well as other activities.
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the second-quarter GDP numbers reflect strong U.S. economic growth: “We have a booming economy with more jobs available than bodies to fill them, and with our economy expanded at a 4.1 percent rate in the April to June quarter – this is the highest level in nearly four years. I'm pleased that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and regulatory reform we have worked hard to implement in the House has contributed to the healthy economic growth we're seeing in our country today. I look forward to continuing our good work in Congress to ensure Arkansans and Americans have the opportunities to live out their dreams and provide well for their families.”
07.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting three bills this week to give Arkansans high-quality, affordable access to health care: “Arkansans deserve access to high-quality, affordable health care, and that includes giving individuals and families the tools they need to get out from under the burden of Washington-knows-best programs to take control of their own health care needs. Competition in our health care system will drive down prices, and this week the House delivered on our promise for increasing health care options for American families. I was proud to support the repeal of the medical device tax that is driving up health care costs, the restoration of access to medication and modernization and expansion of the use of Health Saving Accounts (HSAs), and to help lower health care costs that have been burning a hole in the pockets of families all over the country. We still have much work to do, but these three bills are positive step in providing Arkansans and Americans with more flexibility and freedom over their health care decisions.” Background: 1) The Protect Medical Innovation Act, H.R. 184, repeals the Medical Device Tax that took effect in 2013. Since 2015, Congress has passed two short-term suspensions of the tax. 2) The Increasing Access to Lower Premium Plans and Expanding Health Savings Accounts Act, H.R. 6311, does the following: Allows for additional amounts to be rolled over to subsequent calendar years for Flexible Spending Accounts. Allows for working seniors enrolled in Medicare Part-A to contribute to their HSAs. Allows anyone to purchase a catastrophic health care plan. Further delays the Health Insurance Tax. 3) The Restoring Access to Medication and Modernizing Health Savings Accounts Act, H.R. 6199, does the following: Expand the usages for Health Savings Accounts (HSAs). Makes certain changes in the restrictions on Health Savings Accounts relating to spousal coverage. Allows for other health related savings and spending accounts to be converted to Health Savings Accounts. Repeals certain restrictions Obamacare placed on the purchasing of over-the-counter medications with a Health Savings Account. Allows for certain qualified sports and fitness expenses to be treated as qualified medical expenses. The bill combines several bills that were marked up and reported by the Ways and Means Committee.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting the bipartisan FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) conference report: “This is the 57th consecutive year that House and Senate have come together in a bipartisan fashion to authorize funding for our brave men and women in uniform and their families. I was proud to support this bill that boosts our military’s readiness, combats global terrorism, and gives military personnel a much-deserved 2.4 percent pay increase, while authorizing more than $200 million for the modernization and upgrade of our C-130 fleet, the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard airmen at Little Rock Air Force Base.”
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) voted for legislation to provide Arkansans access to the education they need to fill 21st Century jobs in a booming economy. Hill said: “Because of the Tax Cuts and Job Act, we are seeing more jobs available than bodies to fill them, and many of these are in the skilled trades. As the Co-Chairman of the bipartisan House Skilled American Workforce Caucus, I was proud to support this bill focuses on career education to give Arkansans access to skills essential to be competitive in a growing economy and our local businesses the freedom to provide them. We are innovating a better path to equip Americans for success in the 21st Century workforce, and this bill is now headed to the President’s desk for signature.” Randy Zook, President and CEO Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce / Associated Industries of Arkansas, said: “This bill increases the flexibility local career and technical ed professionals can exercise in matching training programs to local high demand job opportunities. Today’s workplace requires current skills and capabilities and this bill will enable more Arkansans to get the skills and education they need to qualify for better paying jobs. This is a big improvement. Thanks to Congressman Hill and the entire AR delegation for making this happen.” Jane English, Arkansas State Senator, said: “I am so pleased to know that the President will be signing the reauthorization of the Perkins Act. I am particularly pleased that the law will provide for more flexibility for states and communities to determine how dollars will be spent based on their priorities. Helping students and adults obtain the necessary education/skills to compete in today’s and tomorrow’s economy has to be a top priority for every state. I am also pleased to see a coordination with ESSA.” Background: The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, H.R. 2353, reauthorizes the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (Perkins Act) to help more Americans enter the workforce with the skills necessary to compete for and succeed in high-skilled, in-demand careers. Specifically, the legislation looks to empower state and local community leaders, improve alignment with in-demand jobs, increase transparency and accountability, and ensure a limited federal role.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) Bureau of Indian Education as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for failing to maintain the facilities at Pine Hill Schools in New Mexico despite being given $7.5 million taxpayer dollars for school upkeep. “I am astounded at the lack of concern demonstrated by the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE),” said Hill. “For over five years, the BIE shirked their responsibility to protect students from possible harm. They neglected these students by not using the money given to them to maintain the school’s damaged facilities, including the broken fire alarm and suppression systems. This kind of performance from the BIE is unacceptable and must be rectified immediately.” In the letter to the Bureau of Indian Affairs Director Tony L. Dearman, Congressman Hill wrote: Mr. Tony L. Dearman Director Bureau of Indian Affairs U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C St NW MS-3609-MIB Washington, DC 20240-0001 Dear Mr. Dearman: I write to inform you that your agency is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to U.S. Department of the Interior’s (DOI) Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) for what appears to be mismanagement of taxpayer funds in its response to reports of severe safety concerns at school facilities overseen by BIE. As Congress recently noted in its passage of the Indian Trust Asset Reform Act, "through treaties, statutes, and historical relations with Indian tribes, the United States has undertaken a unique trust responsibility to protect and support Indian tribes and Indians." First, a June 1, 2018, report from the DOI Office of Inspector General (OIG), found that BIE had failed to maintain the facilities at Pine Hill Schools in Pine Hill, New Mexico, since 2005. Further, an earlier OIG report from 2016 provided twelve recommendations to address the maintenance deficiencies that “exist despite the fact that Pine Hill has received more than $7.5 million in facility-related funding over the last 5 years.” The report also found that “several of these issues could be classified as routine maintenance activities and likely should have been resolved with a cost less than $2,500.” The 2018 OIG report found that significant progress had not been made in rectifying the issues identified in the 2016 report. I find it disturbing that despite two DOI OIG reports highlighting the need for routine maintenance, and after receiving more than $7.5 million to address said maintenance, BIE failed to do so. Second, since 2014, GAO, in three separate reports, made thirteen recommendations to increase efficient management of BIE schools, and has included BIE and BIA on its High-Risk List since 2017. On June 13, 2018, GAO issued an update to their 2017 High-Risk assessment, expressing concern that BIA “has not provided [GAO] with evidence that it has developed and put in place action plans” for proper allocation and management of funds for school construction and repair per GAO’s 2017 recommendation. Our federal agencies must be good stewards of our federal taxpayer dollars, and I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our Nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress CC: The Honorable Ryan Zinke Secretary U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C St NW Washington, DC 20240 [1] Pub. L. No. 114-178, § 101(3) [2] U.S. Department of the Interior. Office of Inspector General. C-IS-BIE-0023-2014-A. Condition of Bureau of Indian Affairs Facilities at the Pine Hill Boarding School. January 12, 2016. [3] Ibid. [4] U.S. Government Accountability Office. GAO-18-616T. HIGH RISK: Agencies Need to Continue Efforts to Address Management Weaknesses of Federal Programs Serving Indian Tribes. June 2018.
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after President Trump and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker met yesterday to discuss U.S.-EU trade relations: “I’m pleased the president had a productive meeting with the European Commission President Juncker yesterday with both parties agreeing to hold off on further tariffs. President Trump has pledged to have a fair and reciprocal trade relationship with Europe, and it was an important meeting as it relates to auto prices for consumers. I’ve heard from manufacturers in central Arkansas and they have voiced their concerns about what these tariffs could mean for their businesses. “It’s good to see that yesterday’s meeting also helped our efforts to press China to get rid of their 25 years of bad trade practices. Collectively, the U.S. and the EU represent 30 percent of two-way trade with China. That’s a process that the American people have to be patient with because we need to make sure we’re using the right strategy to get our desired outcome of an improved, fairer, more reciprocal trading system. “I also met with White House Economic Adviser Larry Kudlow and Trade Assistant Peter Navarro and urged them to collaborate more closely with Congress in order to accomplish trade goals with a minimum of ‘collateral damage’ from the ill-considered use of 232 steel and aluminum tariffs.”
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting for legislation to extend the current flood insurance program without critical reforms: “The current flood insurance program is unsustainable and broken. Worse, it incentivizes Americans to live and rebuild in harm’s way in dangerous, high-risk flood areas. I have long called for and supported significant structural reforms to the flood insurance program to provide consumers with more choice and information about flood risks while at the same time protecting taxpayer dollars by ending the program’s status quo of a $1.5 billion deficit. “Today’s vote represents the seventh time since last September that the House has passed another short-term authorization bill because the U.S. Senate has refused to take up the call for reform. Between now and November 30th, the Senate should take up the bi-partisan legislation passed by the House last year that encourages mitigation, curtailing repetitive losses, and the use of reinsurance to increase the program’s fairness, affordability, competitiveness, and stability.” Background: Read about House Amendment to S. 1182 – the National Flood Insurance Program Extension Act - here.
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for their mismanagement and loss of over $1 million in medical equipment in VA facilities in Ohio. “How any government agency misplaces equipment valued at over $1 million and paid for with hardworking taxpayer dollars boggles the mind," said Rep. Hill. It’s beyond reckless that in the last three years, the VA has misplaced over $1.12 million dollars in medical equipment in the state of Ohio alone. With our mounting national debt and a refocusing of fiscal priorities, it’s now more important than ever that our federal agencies act as good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars.” In the letter to the Acting Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs Peter O’Rourke, Congressman Hill wrote: The Honorable Peter O’Rourke Acting Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave NW Washington, DC 20420-0001 Dear Secretary O’Rourke: I write today to inform you that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to VA for mismanagement and the loss of over one million dollars in medical equipment across several VA facilities in Ohio. According to recent reports by WBNS-10TV, VA medical facilities in Columbus, Chillicothe, Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Dayton, Ohio combined managed to lose track of $1.12 million worth of medical equipment between 2014 and 2017. [1] Some items reported lost included a $8,500 patient sign-in kiosk, a $12,000 stretcher, and a $28,000 bedside monitor. Further, in some instances, these Ohio facilities lost the equipment after the VA spent nearly $24 million in Ohio on technology designed to install tracking devices on the medical equipment. This is unacceptable, and VA must do better. Our nation is currently over $20 trillion in debt, and it is now more important than ever that our federal agencies act as good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting legislation to fund the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and other federal agencies: “Arkansans and Americans expect Congress to fund the government on time because it leads to greater fiscal accountability, and I am proud that with today’s vote we are halfway done with this important task. The bill we passed today funds the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, and other federal agencies, and I am pleased that my requests for critical funding for the Historic Preservation Fund and technical assistance grants for rural water and wastewater systems were included. Also, the bill we passed today includes my TRID Improvement Act to ease the burden on home purchasers and my Volcker Rule Regulatory Harmonization Act to help banks and other financial institutions provide critical funding to Arkansas businesses, both of which passed the House earlier this year with bipartisan support.” Background: Read the Interior & Environment, Financial Services & General Government Appropriations Act, H.R. 6147, here. Read Congressman Hill’s letters in support of the Historic Preservation Fund and the rural water and wastewater system.
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), issued the following statement after voting for a resolution to support U.S. ICE officers: “Our ICE officers work tirelessly to protect Americans, stop human trafficking along the border, thwart drug cartels from entering and operating in our country, and much more. I’ve personally met with ICE officers and have seen them directly in the line of duty on my four visits to the southwest border. With the shortage of border manpower, now is not the time to remove our brave law enforcement officers. That idea is both wrong and reckless. It’s shameful that 133 Democrats voted ‘present’ on this resolution instead of supporting our ICE officers, who deserve nothing but our utmost respect and appreciation.” Background: H. Res. 990 expresses the continued support of the House of Representatives for United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and the officers and personnel that carry out the mission of ICE.
07.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), issued the following statement after supporting the JOBS and Investor Confidence Act, a bipartisan bill that combines 32 individual bills, including Hill’s legislation, the Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act: “The bipartisan package passed in the House today gives Arkansans and Americans the opportunity to compete in a growing economy. Job creators are the backbone of our country, and today we cut government red tape so they have access to the financial backing they need to create and grow successful businesses. “I’m pleased that my commonsense bill was included in this package because it promotes a partnership without repercussions between local financial institutions and law enforcement agencies to monitor cash flows associated with criminal investigations to help protect Americans from bad actors.” Click here to watch Rep. Hill’s speech in support of the JOBS and Investor Confidence Act Background: The JOBS and Investor Confidence Act, S. 488, combines provisions of 32 individual bills designed to spur entrepreneurship by reinvigorating business startups and initial public offerings. Rep. Hill’s legislation below was included in S. 488. The Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act, H.R. 5783, would provide a safe harbor for financial institutions that maintain a customer account at the request of a Federal or State law enforcement agency. Rep. Hill also worked on Fair Investment Opportunities for Professional Experts Act, H.R. 1585, with Rep. Schweikert (AZ-06) to updated accredited investor definition, making it easier for entrepreneurs to raise startup capital.
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the meeting and press conference between President Trump and President Putin in Helsinki, Finland today: “For decades Russia has engaged in propaganda and political shenanigans in Western democracies, and based on publicly available intelligence and information, their efforts in the U.S. elections in 2016 were no different. “President Trump missed an opportunity today in his meeting and press conference with Russian President Putin to make clear that the United States does not believe Russian denials about meddling in our 2016 elections and that America will not stand for interference of this kind. “In the House we have passed multiple bills sanctioning Russian interests, increasing U.S. military and intelligence spending, and supporting our European allies from Russian aggression. We continue to call upon the current administration to counter Russia's political and military actions in Syria, the Middle East, and the Ukraine, and to hold Russia accountable for their attempts to meddle in U.S. and European elections. Undercutting and destabilizing democracies are not the action of friends.” Background: Below includes the action Republicans have taken in the last year to counter Russia: Increased sanctions against Russia by passing the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. Increased U.S. military spending. Increased U.S. intelligence budget to intercept Russian interference. Given lethal aid to Ukraine in the FY2018 and FY2019 National Defense Authorization Acts. Rep. Suozzi and Rep. Hill’s legislation, the Fight Russian Corruption Act, H.R. 2820, to provide further aid to European countries to counter Russian influence and propaganda. Provided $380 million in election security assistance for states in the FY2018 spending bill. Arkansas received over $4.6 million. Increased pressure on NATO countries to get to 2% military spending and increased NATO exercises in the Baltic states.
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), issued the following statement after supporting the Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act, that helps clarify how federal policies impact the budgets of state and local governments and private sector employees: “Arkansans and Americans deserve complete transparency and accountability from Washington. It’s a great disservice to the public when regulators create rules without any consideration for how they could be passing heavy costs onto job creators, local governments, and families. Today’s vote in the House is a strong message to Washington bureaucrats of ‘no more’ to harmful regulations.” Background: The Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act, H.R. 50, increases transparency about the costs imposed by unfunded mandates and would hold the federal government accountable for considering those costs before passing them on to local governments and small businesses. This legislation would expand the scope of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA), which was passed to ensure public awareness of the financial burden federal mandates place on employers and state and local governments. Current loopholes within UMRA allow certain regulatory bodies to escape public reporting requirements and incentivize others to forego publicizing regulatory proposals. The Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act would correct this. Additionally the bill: Closes loopholes in the Unfunded Mandate Reform Act and increases the existing analysis requirements to improve the quality and regulations and identify unduly burdensome or harmful federal mandates. Impose stricter and more clearly defined requirements for how and when federal agencies must disclose the cost of federal mandates; Ensure those who will be affected have the opportunity to weigh in on proposed mandates; Equip Congress and the public with tools and to better determine the true cost of regulations; and Provide an accountability mechanism to ensure the federal government and its independent regulatory agencies adhere to the provisions set forth by H.R. 50 and its predecessor, the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act.
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the FY 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill, which funds the National Defense Authorization Act passed by the House on May 24, 2018 and is consistent with the budget agreement, which was signed into law on February 9, 2018: “Today’s vote reinforces the House’s efforts to rebuild our armed forces, restore our military readiness, and support our warfighters. This bill provides vital funding to keep Americans safe and honor our commitments to those who have served in defense of our great nation. In addition to giving our troops a well-deserved 2.6 percent pay increase, replenishing equipment and tools, modernizing our military fleet, the bill the House passed today includes nearly $2 billion for our C-130 aircraft, many of which are housed at Little Rock Air Force Base. I am proud of the House’s work to support our brave servicemen and servicewomen in the United States and across the world, and I will continue to fight to make sure they have the resources they and their families need.” Bill Highlights: Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO)/Global War on Terrorism (GWOT) – The legislation includes $68.1 billion in OCO/GWOT funding. This will provide the needed resources for preparation and operations in the field to fight ongoing threats, including funding for personnel requirements, operational needs, the purchase of new aircraft to replace combat losses, combat vehicle modifications, additional Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) assets, and maintenance of facilities and equipment. It also provides critical support to our key allies, such as Israel, Ukraine and Jordan, to resist aggression. Military Personnel and Pay – The legislation includes $144 billion – $139.3 billion for base requirements and $4.7 billion for OCO/GWOT requirements – to provide for 1,338,100 active-duty troops and 817,700 Guard and Reserve troops. The bill fully funds the requested 15,600 end-strength increase and the 2.6 percent pay raise for the military. Operation and Maintenance – Included in the legislation is $245.9 billion – $197.6 billion for base requirements and $48.3 billion for OCO/GWOT requirements – for operation and maintenance. Funding for base requirements is $9.3 billion above fiscal year 2018. This funding supports key readiness programs to prepare our troops for combat and peacetime missions, including flight time and battle training, equipment and facility maintenance, and base operations. Within this amount, the bill includes $1 billion above the request to fill readiness shortfalls, $1.05 billion above the request to invest in facility sustainment, restoration, and modernization programs, and $20.6 billion total for depot maintenance. This funding will help rebuild our forces to ensure our troops have the training and equipment they need. Research and Development – The bill contains $92.4 billion – $91.2 billion for base requirements and $1.2 billion for OCO/GWOT requirements – for research, development, testing, and evaluation of new defense systems and technologies. Funding for base requirements is $2.9 billion above the fiscal year 2018 level, and will help to support current military operations and to prepare our nation to meet a broad range of future security threats. Specifically, this funding will support research and development of: the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter; space security programs; nuclear force modernization; continuation of the JSTARS recapitalization program; the Ohio-class submarine replacement; Future Vertical Lift; the Israeli Cooperative Programs; and other important research and development activities, including those within the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Equipment Procurement – The legislation provides a total of $145.7 billion – $133 billion for base requirements and $12.7 billion for OCO/GWOT requirements – for equipment and upgrades. Funding for base requirements is $2.5 billion above the request. These funds support our nation’s military readiness by providing the necessary platforms, weapons, and other equipment our military needs to train and operate both for both the current fight and future fights. Defense Health and Military Family Programs – The bill contains a total of $34.4 billion – $34 billion for base requirements and $352 million for OCO/GWOT requirements – $318 million above the request – for the Defense Health Program to provide care for our troops, military families, and retirees. Specifically, the bill provides $364 million for cancer research, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $318 million for sexual assault prevention and response. All of these funding levels represent increases above the President’s request. Reductions and Rescissions to Save Tax Dollars – The bill reflects commonsense decisions to save taxpayer dollars where possible in areas that will not affect the safety or success of our troops and missions, such as $870 million in savings from rescissions of unused prior-year funding. For text of the legislation, please click here.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act failed to pass the U.S. House: “I am disappointed that for the second time in six days my colleagues in the House have rejected yet another immigration reform bill that would have provided stronger borders, an equitable solution for Dreamers, permanent, legal relief for separated families, and much-needed resources, including manpower, technology, and structures to protect American citizens. Since coming to Congress, I have stood with the many central Arkansans who also believe that our immigration system is broken and in urgent need of repair. That is why I urge my colleagues in the House to take action and fix it instead of blocking these bills from moving forward.”
06.25.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after his legislation, the Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act, passed the U.S. House by a bipartisan vote of 379 to 4: “As a former community banker, I have dealt with the conflict of wanting to help law enforcement agencies when receiving a ‘Keep Open Letter,’ while not being able to because of the need to comply with the Anti-Money Laundering or Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements set forth by a regulator. My commonsense bill promotes a partnership without repercussions between local financial institutions and law enforcement agencies as they monitor cash flows associated with criminal investigations. This is yet another way the House is working to protect Americans within communities across America.” Watch Rep. Hill speak on the CLAW Act Background: The Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act, H.R. 5783, would provide a safe harbor for financial institutions that maintain a customer account at the request of a Federal or State law enforcement agency.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), after joining 41 Members of Congress, urged the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to ensure that families illegally crossing into the United States are kept together and requested clarity on current policies, issued the following statement: “Stronger border security is imperative, but it cannot be at the expense of compassion, which is why I joined my 41 colleagues in asking for clarification of administration policy. I support the president’s executive order to keep families together while their immigration status is determined, and I’m working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to provide a permanent, legislative, and compassionate solution.” Letter The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, DC 20530 The Honorable Alex M. Azar Secretary U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Washington, DC 20201 The Honorable Kirstjen M. Nielsen Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Attorney General Sessions, Secretary Nielsen, and Secretary Azar: We are writing today regarding our concern about the safety and the security of families with children immigrating to the United States. We are concerned about the separation of immigrant families in light of the Justice Department’s recently announced “zero tolerance” policy for all immigrants crossing our borders illegally. We support the defense of our nation’s borders and all who work to keep us safe. Yet, we are concerned that policies allowing the separation of families are in direct conflict with America’s humanitarian responsibility and our nation’s history of protecting those seeking safety. In light of troubling stories, we seek clarification on the guidance you use as you each carry out your duties encountering and processing immigrants crossing the U.S. border. While there may be rare instances which justify federal enforcement to separate a parent from their child, we seek clarification on how this Administration makes those determinations, and any statutory reforms that Congress must provide to ensure no family is needlessly separated. Specifically we request responses to the following questions: 1. How many children have been separated from their parents while crossing the U.S. border in the past five years, each year, crossing both; a. illegally to gain entrance and, b. in seeking asylum at legal ports of entry? 2. When encountering a family unit (at least one parent traveling with a child) how are your agencies processing those encounters under the following circumstances: a. At a legal U.S. port of entry? b. If apprehended crossing the border at locations other than ports of entry? 3. What agency guidance or statute has been used to justify separations for illegal entry and for those seeking asylum? 4. If a parent is separated from their child for any period of time, either during processing or in temporary detention: a. What procedures are followed to ensure parents are made aware of the welfare of a child in HHS custody? b. What procedures are followed to assist and expedite family reunification following any separation period? c. How are your respective agencies coordinating your responsibilities between DOJ, DHS, and HHS to ensure the timely and safe reunification of families? 5. What specific training is offered to DOJ, DHS and HHS personnel to ensure the well-being for children is prioritized and maintained throughout any processing or separation period? 6. Given the increase of concern over family separation, what actions are your agencies taking to ensure there is no confusion among personnel processing families crossing our border? 7. Do your respective agencies require additional statutory authority to ensure no family is separated needlessly when entering the country? 8. Given President Trump’s executive order in response to family separation, please provide information on how that executive order; a. Will be interpreted by your agencies? b. How does this order change your current procedures? c. How will your agencies implement this policy change to ensure no family is needlessly separated? We believe there is nothing more important than family, and especially in protecting the well-being of children. We look forward to your prompt and complete response. As Congress continues to work for permanent reform, it is critical we have an understanding of how your agencies interpret their authority and implement the laws of our nation.
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting over 50 pieces of opioid legislation during the last two weeks in the U.S. House: “Nearly 65,000 Americans died in 2016 due to drug overdoses – more than our losses in the Vietnam War. Of those 65,000 souls lost, 45,000 were from opioids, which is why the House prioritized comprehensive, bipartisan action - passing more than 50 bills in the past two weeks. During my Opioid Summit on Monday, I heard from families, practitioners, and other officials on how our Arkansas communities are coordinating to stop the loss of life in our state. These bills range from ensuring that health care providers have access to a patient’s complete medical history to allowing hospice employees to dispose of opioids after a patient’s death to securing our mail system from shipments of fentanyl and other dangerous synthetic drugs coming from China and Mexico - just to name a few.” Background: Read here about the over 50 opioid-related bills the U.S. House has passed over the last two weeks.
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, to help Arkansas farm families prosper: “Agriculture is Arkansas’s number one economic industry, and I was proud to support the passage of the farm bill to give security and assistance to Arkansas’s and our nation’s farmers. “I was pleased that this bill included much-needed reforms including adding a work or education requirement to the food stamp program for able-bodied adults. Work - whether participating in a qualified volunteer program, training program, or a job – bears the fruits of dignity, pride, and responsibility. Our economy is growing more rapidly and there are more work and training opportunities. Providing this incentive will offer a chance for upward mobility from welfare to work, dependence to independence, and ultimately poverty to prosperity. I commend Chairman Conaway of the House Agriculture Committee for his leadership and his colleagues on their hard work on this bill, and for taking a great first step in ensuring our vital SNAP program is more accountable and effective for those that need it most.” Background: The Agriculture and Nutrition Act, H.R. 2, reauthorizes and strengthens the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) options through 2023. This bill does the following: Improves the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and strengthens and streamlines work requirements for able bodied adults to increase opportunities for SNAP recipients, including participation is a fully funded guaranteed Employment and Training slots. Provides a strengthened safety net for farmers and ranchers, authorizing and restoring funding for vital tools for trade promotion and market development, and maintains long-standing legal authority for the secretary to aid farmers and ranchers affected by unfair foreign trading practices. Prioritizes working-land conservation by retaining and folding the best features of the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP) into the nation’s flagship incentive-based program for voluntary conservation -- the Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP). Protects crop insurance as well as streamlining and reducing regulatory burdens. Authorizes substantial annual appropriations to rural broadband require USDA to establish forward- looking broadband standards. It would also strengthen the suite of rural development initiatives to promote jobs and economic activity in rural America. Establishes a new National Animal Disease Preparedness and Response Program designed to protect the health of the nation’s livestock sector.
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement on the U.S. immigration system and family separations, as well as the two pieces of immigration legislation expected to be considered in the House on Thursday: “There is no doubt that the U.S. immigration system is broken and in need of fixing. The Bush and Obama administrations were presented with one border crisis after another, and the current administration is no different, demonstrating that our broken immigration system doesn’t discern between any one administration or any one political party. “It is imperative that we need stronger border security, but it cannot be at the expense of compassion for those seeking entry in the United States. This is why, as I have said repeatedly, I believe that families should be kept together in a humane and coordinated effort and should not be separated while their cases are being adjudicated. “On Thursday, I look forward to supporting legislation that seeks to provide immediate relief for families separated on the border while helping to better secure our borders with appropriate resources to protect our citizens - including manpower, technology, and structures. These bills support the ‘four pillars’ of immigration reform outlined earlier this year by the Trump Administration. They also include an equitable solution for DACA children, funded border security enhancements, ending the diversity lottery system, and moving our annual admissions to a merit-based system. “During my four visits to the southwest border, I learned that these are the minimal components needed to improve our immigration system and that much more needs to be done.” Click here to read my April 2018 op-ed that followed my most recent trip to the southwest border.
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with U.S. Representatives Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman, released the following statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced misconduct by a former VA pathologist at the Fayetteville Veterans Affairs Medical Center. “This alleged gross negligence by a physician charged with caring for our veterans is a disturbing revelation and a clear failure to uphold the Department of Veterans Affairs mission to the men and women who served our nation in uniform. The errors and reckless actions of this former VA pathologist put the health of our veterans at risk and will not be tolerated. “Unfortunately, at this time, we don’t know the extent of this doctor’s misconduct. We call on the VA to notify patients whose cases were evaluated by this pathologist to thoroughly and expeditiously review their results so veterans can get the appropriate care they earned. Those impacted deserve nothing less. “Congress has provided the VA with the tools to remove bad actors. Failing to dismiss physicians and any other employees whose work is unsatisfactory does a disservice to our veterans. We are committed to rigorous oversight to protect the men and women who sacrificed and served our country and will hold those who break the law and undermine the mission of the VA accountable.” Veterans who have questions or concerns can call 479-582-7995 or 866-388-5428. This call center is staffed by VA nurses specifically to answer questions and address patient concerns about this review process.
06.15.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act, which helps combat synthetic drug epidemic threatening Arkansas and America: “I was proud to support this bill to give more resources to law enforcement to stop killer drugs from coming into the United States and because it is a good compliment to my bill to increase screening resources for the U.S. Postal Service. The opioid epidemic is plaguing Arkansas and our nation. With 45,000 deaths last year and more than 100 people dying each day, we in the House are acting because we can’t let another Arkansas family be devastated by this crisis.” Background: The Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act, H.R. 2851, updates the Controlled Substances Act to provide swifter action to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs and gives law enforcement effective tools to help keep our communities safe. Instead of taking three years to bring a drug under control, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues (SITSA) Act gives the Attorney General the power to quickly and temporarily schedule a new dangerous drug in a matter of months when it is virtually identical to a currently scheduled drug. It will get these deadly substances out of the hands of drug traffickers and off the streets. The bill also requires the Attorney General to work with the Department of Health and Human Services so that the synthetic drugs can be studied by qualified researchers studying addiction and developing the latest cures for serious illnesses. In 2016, over 64,000 Americans died from drug overdoses. Nearly 20 percent of these deaths resulted from an overdose of synthetic opioids like fentanyl, which can be as much as 100 times more powerful than painkillers such as morphine. Additionally, synthetic analogues with street names like K2, Spice, Bath Salts, or Molly are designed to mimic other street drugs like marijuana, LSD, and Ecstasy and can be more potent and deadly than the real thing. Criminal drug manufactures, largely from China and Mexico, work continuously to stay ahead of U.S. drug laws by altering the molecular structure of their drugs as soon as the government bans them. The Controlled Substances Act (CSA), which was signed into law over 40 years ago, was designed to protect the public from the dangers associated with drugs and drug use. However, the CSA was not designed to handle the magnitude and speed with which these new psychoactive substances have emerged in our communities. It currently takes three years to schedule a drug, but criminals can skirt the law by quickly changing one molecule in a drug and get it to U.S. streets. The resulting chemically-altered drug is just as dangerous, and often even more so.
06.11.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announces mobile hours to be held in Pulaski, Perry, Conway, White, Saline, Faulkner, and Van Buren counties for the week of June 18 – 22, 2018. “Part of my responsibility is helping central Arkansans with passports, veteran benefits, and other issues with federal agencies,” said Rep. Hill. “The doors to my Little Rock and Conway offices are always open, but to best serve people directly, I frequently hold Mobile Office Hours in other towns in my district. So far, I have held over 70 Mobile Office Hours around central Arkansas since 2015. This allows Arkansans who may not be able to travel to Little Rock or Conway to meet with my team at a location closer and more convenient to them. I am committed to serving central Arkansans and I welcome anyone in need of assistance to visit with us.” Van Buren County WHEN: Monday, June 18, 2018 | 10:00 AM CT – 12:00 PM CT WHERE: Scotland Senior Center 11759 AR-95, Scotland, AR 72141 Faulkner County WHEN: Tuesday, June 19, 2018 | 1:30 PM CT - 3:30 PM CT WHERE: Wooster City Hall 7 Reed Road, Wooster, AR 72181 Saline County WHEN: Wednesday, June 20, 2018 | 10:00 AM CT – 12:00 PM CT WHERE: Haskell City Hall 2520 AR-229, Benton, AR 72015 White County WHEN: Wednesday, June 20, 2018 | 1:30 PM CT - 3:30 PM CT WHERE: Goff Public Library 323 N. Elm Street, Beebe, AR 72012 Perry County WHEN: Thursday, June 21, 2018 | 1:30 PM CT – 3:30 PM CT WHERE: Perry City Hall 108 Johnson Street S, Perry, AR 72125 Conway County WHEN: Thursday, June 21, 2018 | 10:00 AM CT – 12:00 PM CT WHERE: Plumerville Mayor's Office 303 W Main Street, Plumerville, AR 72127 Pulaski County WHEN: Friday, June 22, 2018 | 2:00 PM CT – 4:00 PM CT WHERE: Wrightsville Civic Center 13024 AR-365, Little Rock, AR 72206
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act: “It has been more than twenty-one years since Congress has passed all twelve bills to fund the government and had them signed into law before the start of the new fiscal year. It’s what Arkansans and Americans expect of their government, and I’m proud of the good work we’ve started in the House to build on last year’s success of passing all 12 funding bills before the September deadline. “The bill passed today includes critical funding for quality housing for the 1.4 million military families currently served by the Military Family Housing program – including families at the Little Rock Air Force Base and Camp Robinson, and an additional $3.9 billion to care for Arkansas and American veterans including speeding up claims processing. It also furthers Americans’ core priorities, including improving national security, increasing job creation, and strengthening America’s infrastructure – all while providing strong oversight and accountability of the federal government.” Background: Some of the provisions of the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019, H.R. 5895, include: $44.7 billion for Fiscal Year 2019 and provides funding for the Army Corp of Engineers, Department of Energy, and our nation’s nuclear weapons security programs, including: $15.3 billion for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs, an increase of $644 million over FY18, and includes funding for the Columbia-Class Ballistic Submarine and maintaining the safety and readiness of our weapons stockpile. $7.28 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers, $451 million over FY18, for our nation’s ports, waterways, and flood protection infrastructure. $13.4 billion for energy programs that will advance our “all-of-the-above” strategy for energy independence. The bill also repeals the Waters of the United States rule. $96.9 billion for FY19 to provide the care and support for our veterans and their families while also strengthening oversight and accountability at the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs. $85.3 billion in discretionary funding for VA programs, $3.9 billion above FY18, including VA Medical Care, processing disability claims, VA construction, and the new VA electronic health record system. $10.3 billion for military construction to house military families, supports our troops overseas and their ongoing operations, and fund Guard and Reserve construction projects. $3.8 billion for the House of Representatives, Capitol Police, the Library of Congress, and support agencies of Congress. $1.2 billion for operations of the House, which provides funding for Members’ offices, IT and cybersecurity enhancements, and workplace rights training. $456.4 million for the Capitol Police to enhance security and safety of the U.S. Capitol Complex. $642 million for the Architect of the Capitol. Provides $709.8 million for the Library of Congress.
06.07.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that ten students from Arkansas’s Second Congressional District have received appointments to attend U.S. service academies. “I am inspired by the dedication to service of each of the Arkansas students seeking nomination to one of our service academies, and I am pleased to announce the ten students who will be attending one of these academies in the fall,” said Hill. “Each of these students has excelled academically and is the embodiment of leadership. I look forward to their representing Arkansas well as they go on to bravely serve our nation.” Each year, students from all over the country are nominated by Members of Congress to attend the five U.S. service academies. Those accepted are awarded a full four-year scholarship, which includes tuition, housing, and books. On Saturday, June 9, 2018, at 2:00 PM CT, at the Little Rock Regional Chamber of Commerce, Hill will hold a reception to honor this year’s appointees. Service Academy Send-Off Reception WHEN: Saturday, June 9, 2018 | 2:00 PM CT – 3:30 PM CT WHERE: Little Rock Regional Chamber of Commerce 200 E Markham Street Little Rock, AR 72201 The 2018 appointments from the Second Congressional District are as follows: U.S. Air Force Academy Hannah Cheatham-- Little Rock, Little Rock Christian High School Jackson Hudkins -- Little Rock, Baptist Preparatory High School U.S. Naval Academy Jackie Sherrell -- Alexander, Benton High School Adrianna Munoz -- Center Ridge, Nemo Vista High School Addie Geoghagan -- North Little Rock, Little Rock Christian High School U.S. Military Academy Max Johnson -- Maumelle, St. John’s Military Academy Easton Bolin -- Vilonia, eSTEM High School Christopher Burlison -- Conway, Conway High School Miles Wilson -- Little Rock, Catholic High School Spencer Walsh -- Little Rock, Catholic High School
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act: “When Arkansans sent me to Washington, they demanded leadership and accountability and for me to be part of the solution to Washington’s top-down, one-size-fits-all approach to spending. Across Arkansas, people are fed up with the federal government’s wasteful spending. “I am glad to support the president’s request to cancel nearly $15 billion in expired federal funding – because these funds are dollars that were approved in previous years and can no longer be spent. This includes expired funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and therefore will not affect current and future delivery of children’s health insurance through this program, and in fact, the House recently voted to fully fund and authorize CHIP for ten years, the longest period in the twenty-year history of the program. I’m proud that we’re taking a positive step to be better steward of our hard-earned dollars, cutting back on Washington’s out-of-control spending.” Background: The Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act, H.R. 3, would rescind more than $15 billion in previously authorized spending. Pursuant to the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (ICA), the President requested rescissions of nearly $15 billion of unobligated balances from previously appropriated funding. Previous presidents of both political parties, like President Ronald Reagan and President Bill Clinton, have regularly recommended rescission packages. Additional information on H.R. 3: This is the largest in the history of the ICA and rescinds funding previously provided in law and reductions to budget authority for mandatory programs. Under the ICA, Congress has 45 days to act on the President’s request and provides Congress special procedures to quickly act on the proposed rescissions. The package includes 34 rescissions totaling $14.835 billion and affects programs at the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Energy, Health and Human Services, Justice, Labor, State, Transportation and the Treasury, as well as the Railroad Retirement Board. Funding proposed to be rescinded have in many cases been left unspent by agencies for years. None of the rescinded balances are from FY 2018 appropriations. Rescissions include: $4.3 billion from the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program. $523 million from the Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program. $5.1 billion from Children Health Insurance Fund. $1.8 billion from the Child Enrollment Contingency Fund. $800 million from Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovations. $500 million from the Farm Security and Rural Investment Programs. $148 million from Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. $133 million from Railroad Unemployment Insurance Extended Benefits. Note: The President’s requested revision to the rescissions package made minor technical changes and withdrew four previously proposed rescissions. The amendment eliminates rescissions to the Ebola, Sandy, and miscellaneous transportation funds. Text of the amendment which fulfills the requested revisions can be found here.
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Tonight, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), which passed by 408-2, to strengthen Arkansas and the nation’s infrastructure and enhance economic development across the country: “With more than $4 billion in commerce traveling up and down the Arkansas River each year, waterways are a key part of Arkansas’s economy. The House’s passing of this water resources bill means Arkansas’s infrastructure will be able to support an increased volume of goods coming through our ports and bring more jobs to our state. I am particularly interested in the results of the National Academy of Sciences study on the structure of the Army Corps of Engineers and their recommendations.” Background: The Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), H.R. 8, authorizes $2.5 billion, which is fully offset, for critical projects and activities related to the key missions of the Army Corps of Engineers – navigation, flood risk management, hurricane and storm damage reduction, and ecosystem restoration. This bill builds on the bipartisan reforms of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2016 and continues to restore the two-year WRDA cycle that is critical to maintaining our water resources infrastructure. This continuation of regular order in WRDA saves money by streamlining the needed water resources infrastructure improvements and project modifications, which in turn prevents the unnecessary increase in project costs that occur when authorized projects are stalled or delayed. Additionally the bill: Authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency to assist states and local governments in mitigating flood risks from aging dams and levees. Authorizes studies for future water resources improvements included in the Corps’ 2017 and 2018 annual reports to Congress. Provides for the full use of funds from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund for harbor maintenance purposes. Reauthorizes the Levee Safety Initiative, and the National Dam Safety Program through 2023 to help protect American communities from flooding. Directs the National Academy of Sciences to evaluate the current organizational structure of the Corps’ civil works functions, identify impediments to efficient project delivery, and provide recommendations to Congress. Requires added transparency with Army Corps reports on maintenance backlog obligations. Fully offsets the $2.5 billion in new authorizations with $3 billion in deauthorizations and sunsets or eliminates inactive or unnecessary projects. WRDA 2016 passed the House by a vote of 399-25.
05.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Social Security Administration (SSA) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for overpaying Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) beneficiaries and for permanently waiving overpayment debt. In the letter to the Social Security Administration’s Acting Commissioner Nancy Berryhill, Congressman Hill wrote: May 31, 2018 The Honorable Nancy Berryhill Acting Commissioner Social Security Administration 6401 Security Blvd Baltimore, MD 21235-0001 Dear Commissioner Berryhill: I write to inform you that the Social Security Administration (SSA) is being awarded this month’s Golden Fleece Award for overpaying Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) beneficiaries and for permanently waiving overpayment debt. According to a 2016 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report to Congress, SSA overpaid beneficiaries almost $20 billion and permanently waived over $2.4 billion in overpayment debt between fiscal years 2005 and 2014.[1] The United States is currently more than $20 trillion in debt, and our government agencies must be cognizant of this while spending taxpayer dollars. In their most recent annual report to Congress, GAO reported that this area of concern has not yet been addressed by SSA, stating “To help prevent the loss of billions of dollars, SSA should take steps to prevent overpayments to beneficiaries of the Disability Insurance program and improper waivers of beneficiaries’ overpayment of debt.”[2] I request that you provide responses to the following questions: How much money did SSA overpay to SSDI beneficiaries from FY2014 to the present? 2. Has SSA permanently waived overpayment debt since FY2014, and, if so, what is the total of the overpayment debt that has been permanently waived? 3. What steps has SSA taken since the 2016 GAO report to address this issue? Our federal agencies must be good stewards of our federal tax dollars, and I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify Congress as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress ________________________________ [1] U.S. Government Accountability Office. GAO-16-375SP. 2016 Annual Report: Additional Opportunities to Reduce Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication and Achieve Other Financial Benefits. April 2016. [2] U.S. Government Accountability Office. GAO-18-371SP. 2018 Annual Report: Additional Opportunities to Reduce Fragmentation, Overlap, and Duplication and Achieve Other Financial Benefits. April 2018.
05.30.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after signing onto the Fair Hospital Payments Act: “I signed onto this bill to keep the best medical professionals in Arkansas and make sure that Arkansans are receiving the best health care possible and to correct a disparity that is harming Arkansans. For too long, the Medicare reimbursement rate for Arkansas hospitals has been lower than the rest of the country, and this is not only unfair but potentially dangerous to the millions of Arkansans who rely upon our hospitals for the health care services they need.” Background: The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) bases a portion of each hospital’s reimbursement for Medicare services on the Area Wage Index for Hospitals (AWI). The AWI is based upon the relative hospital wage level in the hospital’s geographic area compared to the national average. Many legislative and administrative “fixes” over the past thirty years, along with flaws of the existing formula, have resulted in significant distortions in the AWI system. In fact, while the AWI was originally designed so that the average AWI is 1.0, there is not a single hospital in any of the following states that is reimbursed based on an AWI of 1.0 or greater: Alabama, Tennessee, Georgia, Ohio, Texas, South Carolina, Louisiana, Kentucky, Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Utah. Under the current system, hospitals that choose to enter rural and underserved areas with lower average wages are slapped with disproportionately lower reimbursement rates and thinner profit margins. By establishing a floor AWI of 0.874 for Medicare reimbursement, the Fair Medicare Hospital Payments Act of 2017 will help address this disparity.
05.29.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the Supreme Court declined to hear a challenge to an Arkansas abortion law that restricts medication-induced abortions: “I commend the Supreme Court today and stand with the people of Arkansas who have spoken through the legislature in support of the pro-life cause and have stated their desire for ensuring access to safe, effective, and affordable health care services for women in Arkansas and throughout the country.”
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after voting for the FY2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) to support Arkansas and American service members: “I was proud to cast my support for our service members and families across the globe, including the airmen and airwomen of Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB) and the Arkansas Guardsmen at Camp Robinson because, as they serve in all corners of the globe, they deserve to know that their nation stands behind them one hundred per cent – no exceptions. “This is the 57th consecutive year that House and Senate have come together in a bipartisan fashion to authorize funding for our brave men and women in uniform, this year, authorizing our nation’s defense funding is critical for boosting our military’s readiness, combating global terrorism, and giving military personnel a much-deserved percent pay increase. “This measure also continues the important work of last year’s NDAA by authorizing more than $200 million to upgrade and modernize our C-130 fleet, something that is especially important for LRAFB, the nation’s tactical airlift ‘Center of Excellence,’ and this needed funding will guarantee these planes remain an essential part of our national security for years to come. “I also want to thank Rep. Steve Russell (R-OK) for his support in adding an amendment during committee consideration that will ease the cost burden of financial institutions on military installations, a policy solution that I have worked on for more than a year and that will benefit central Arkansas’s service members and their families.” Background: The FY19 National Defense Authorization Act does the following: Supports necessary increase in topline funding to support our troops and readiness recovery consistent with Congress’ and President Trump's commitment to rebuild the military. Pay raise of 2.6% for our troops - largest in 9 years. Increase the size of Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Naval and Air Reserve, as well as Air Guard. Makes major reforms in Pentagon bureaucracy and streamlines buying practices. Increases funding to rebuild our military and support readiness recovery: Increases funding for training in each of the Services; $18.6 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn out Army equipment; $39.5 billion to begin to overcome the crisis in military aviation by getting more aircraft in the air; $36.0 billion to restore America’s strength at sea; $23.3 billion to sustain, repair and rebuild crumbling military buildings and other infrastructure. Makes critical investments in missile defense and our nuclear deterrent, which is the cornerstone of our national security. Makes key investments in other critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address threats around the world, including threats from Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran. Authorizes funding for co-development and co-production of missile defense and weapon systems with our key ally Israel. Advances innovative technologies that will reform the way we will fight and win wars.
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after attending the White House signing ceremony for the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, which repeals major parts of the Dodd-Frank Act: “I’m grateful that after the bipartisan hard work of the House and Senate, the President has signed this regulatory relief measure – paving the way for a better economic future for all hardworking Arkansans and Americans. Today, we celebrate a win for our local job creators and the communities they serve after years of a Dodd-Frank economy that did not work for or help the working people. Instead of bureaucratic red tape and Washington mandates discouraging economic growth and job creation, we have provided this regulatory relief package that works to promote a healthier, safer, and stronger economy. “I commend President Trump, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo for working together to get this bill signed into law. I look forward to continuing to fight for our families and small businesses in Arkansas and across the nation by rightsizing unnecessary overzealous financial regulations that have stymied capital formation and economic growth.”
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Right to Try Act: “Tonight, we voted to remove unnecessary bureaucratic red tape for terminally ill patients and their families. These patients deserve the option to receive investigational drugs that have passed the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) basic safety testing without having to ask the agency for permission first. This common sense measure will facilitate a potentially life-saving chance for dying Americans.” Background: The Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act, S. 204, allows terminally ill patients who have exhausted all other options to try medications that have passed basic FDA safety protocols but not completed the full, multiyear approval process. This bill safeguards any pharmaceutical company that may wish to participate in Right to Try, but it in no way requires participation, nor does it impose a mandate on anyone. Instead, this legislation gives patients who have no other options a chance. Specifically, the bill will: Establish a robust informed consent to access unapproved drugs. Guard patients from manufacturers purposefully misbranding or mislabeling drugs. Provide liability protections for manufacturers, sponsors, physicians, clinical investigators, and hospitals that participate in the existing expanded access program and the new alternative pathway unless there is reckless or willful misconduct, gross negligence, or an intentional tort. Require manufacturers to publish annual reports on the use of unapproved drugs. Product must have completed a Phase 1 (safety) clinical trial.
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), the Majority Whip of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the passage of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, which repeals major parts of the Dodd-Frank Act: “Today, my colleagues and I took the first step in paving the way for a better economic future for all hardworking Americans. As a former community banker, I experienced firsthand the negative effects Dodd-Frank had on our communities. By passing this legislation and sending it to the President’s desk, we celebrate a huge win for our local job creators and the communities they serve. Since its enactment, the Dodd-Frank economy did not work for the working people, and its bureaucratic red tape and Washington mandates discouraged economic growth and job creation. But not anymore. This regulatory relief package will promote a healthier, safer, and stronger economy by ending the one-size-fits-all regulatory approach of Dodd-Frank that has systematically crippled the ability of community banks to succeed. “I commend Chairmen Hensarling (R-TX) and Senator Crapo (R-ID), Chair of the Senate Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, for working tirelessly to get this important bill over the finish line and I look forward to continuing to fight for our families and small businesses by right sizing additional, overzealous financial regulations that have stymied capital formation and economic growth.” Background: Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, S. 2155, does the following: Title I. Improves consumer access to mortgage credit Title II. Provides regulatory relief and protects consumer access to credit Title III. Protects veterans, consumers and homeowners Title IV. Tailors regulations for certain bank holding companies Title V. Encourages capital formation Title VI. Protects student borrowers Click here to read more.
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after President Trump signed the Congressional Review Act Joint Resolution Disapproving of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) Indirect Auto Financing Guidance: “I’m pleased to see President Trump join Congress in sending a clear message of disapproval of a burdensome rule issued by the CFPB under the direction of then-Director Richard Cordray – this time making it harder and more expensive for American families to purchase a car – something critical for getting to work and for providing for their families. This will benefit ALL Americans because they will have access to improved and cheaper auto lending allowing them to retain more of their hard-earned money. “The CFPB circumvented Congress by issuing this guidance and used poorly crafted discriminatory procedures in attempting to justify it, and intended to undermine the consumer and deny companies’ due process rights. By President Trump and Congress taking this action, we avoided the CFPB’s flawed guidance from damaging our economy and without weakening the Lenders’ obligations under fair credit laws. I am proud to have supported this measure and that President Trump took action to protect the rights of hardworking Americans to continue to hold this unchecked agency accountable for its actions.” Background: Under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA), which is existing law, it prohibits discrimination in any aspect of a credit transaction. It applies to any extension of credit, including extensions of credit to small businesses, corporations, partnerships, and trusts.
05.18.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – After Governor Asa Hutchinson announced that the U.S. Treasury Department approved his nominations for Arkansas’s 85 Opportunity Zones, a program that Congress established in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “This is more great news for central Arkansans and everyone across the Natural State. Opportunity Zones, created by the House tax reform bill, will help provide investment and opportunities for jobs and growth. Pleased that 14 of Governor Hutchinson’s 85 Opportunity Zones are right here in central Arkansas.”
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on the continued NAFTA negotiations: “I urge the administration to move expeditiously on an improved NAFTA deal that does not include a short sunset provision. Our NorthAmerican companies require a long-time horizon around which to take full advantage for planning new plant and equipment investments. America’s new tax system will attract investment from all over the world to build products right here in the United States.”
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after proudly voting for the H.R. 5674, the VA Mission Act, which passed the House 347 to 70: “I was proud to support this bill – which builds upon the VA Accountability Act the House passed last year – because delivering timely and quality care for our veterans is non-negotiable. I know how hard my three Arkansas-based veterans caseworkers – themselves combat veterans – have worked to cut through VA red tape to deliver over $2 million for central Arkansas’s veterans just this year, and this measure will make their jobs a bit easier and allow our team to help even more veterans. I was proud to testify on behalf of central Arkansas’s veterans before the Veterans’ Committee today about the VA’s Choice Program ‘40-mile rule’ and what improvements must be made to ease the burden for Arkansas’s veterans, and I am pleased that the improvements I suggested are included the bill passed today.” Background: The VA MISSION Act, S.2372, streamlines the VA’s community care programs into one cohesive program, creates a non-partisan process for reviewing VA’s assets, increases accountability to healthcare providers, and expands VA’s Post-9/11 Caregiver Program to all eras. It also includes funding for the Choice Program, which is expected to run out of funds as early as May 31, 2018.
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02), introduced the Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act, which provides a safe harbor for financial institutions that maintain a customer account at the request of a federal or state law enforcement agency. Rep. Hill, the Majority Whip of the House Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement: “As a former community banker, I have dealt with the conflict of wanting to help law enforcement agencies when receiving a ‘Keep Open Letter,’ while not being able to because of the need to comply with the requirements set forth by a regulator. That is why I am pleased to introduce this commonsense bill, which enables partnerships without repercussions between law enforcement agencies and our local financial institutions by allowing law enforcement to monitor cash flows associated with criminal investigations at a financial institution. This is another way Congress is giving our law enforcement the tools they need to prosecute bad actors wanting to use the American financial system for their criminal acts and to keep Americans safer.” Background: The Cooperate with Law Enforcement Agencies and Watch Act, H.R. 5783, would provide a safe harbor for financial institutions that maintain a customer account at the request of a Federal or State law enforcement agency.
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Rep. French Hill (AR-02) released a statement after President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “Since I was elected to Congress, I objected to the final agreement of the Iran nuclear deal due to its significant flaws in the Iranian development limits, weak verification, lack of ballistic missile limits, and upfront relief of sanctions and upfront cash. Significant bipartisan objections were ignored by President Obama and former Secretary of State Kerry. Therefore, I support President Trump in his decision to withdraw from the nuclear deal with Iran. The final agreement did not protect the safety of U.S. citizens and it put our allies, including Israel, in grave danger. In the most simplistic terms, this deal was a delay in Iran's nuclear program in exchange for complete sanctions relief and beyond. By reimposing sanctions on Iran, we put pressure back on Iran’s brutal mullahs and signify American support for the people of Iran who bravely advocate for change that embraces liberty, freedom, and a more democratic form of government. We can now collaborate with our allies on finding a better path forward to end Iran’s nuclear program and their ability to threaten their neighbors and the free world.”
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. French Hill (AR-02) released a statement on Congressional Review Act Joint Resolution Disapproving of the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) Indirect Auto Financing Guidance: “Today, my colleagues and I joined the Senate and sent a clear message of disapproval of yet another burdensome rule issued by the CFPB under the direction of then-Director Richard Cordray – this time making it harder and more expensive for American families to purchase a car – something critical for getting to work and for providing for their families. The CFPB’s move was intended to undermine the consumer and deny companies’ due process rights. By taking this action, we avoided the CFPB’s flawed guidance from damaging our economy, and I am proud to support today’s vote to protect the rights of hardworking Americans to continue to hold this unchecked agency accountable for its actions.” Watch Rep. Hill’s floor speech here. Background: Former Director of Consumer Financial Protection, Richard Cordray, issued guidance attempting to regulate automobile dealers, even though they are specifically prohibited from doing so under the Dodd-Frank Act. The CRA uses authority under the S.J. Res. 57 to nullify the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection’s March 2013 bulletin relating to indirect auto lending and compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Nothing in this action weakens the Bureau or Congress’s longtime statutory support of fair credit for all Americans. The bill has passed the Senate with bipartisan support and now goes to the desk of the President for his signature.
05.03.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR02) introduced the Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act to preserve wilderness areas for future generations in the State of Arkansas under the Wilderness Act of 1964 as amended by the federal Arkansas Wilderness Act of 1984. Hill’s legislation will add more than 600 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain into the National Wilderness Preservation System. It also instructs the U.S. Forest Service to study forest lands located in Perry County and adjacent to the Flatside Wilderness to determine their suitability for inclusion in the wilderness area. Rep. Hill said: “A century ago, America was witnessing rapid urbanization, industrialization, and the closing of the west— and our own nation elected to protect its wild places. Today, just as then, Americans need solitude and refreshment from what President Teddy Roosevelt called ‘the strenuous life.’ Our wilderness areas are places left wild and roadless for exploration, camping, hunting, and hiking. “Arkansans and visitors, young and old, are looking for unique and authentic outdoor recreation opportunities in the Natural State. Perry County in particular offers a very special and rare opportunity to support our wildlife and natural resources while also boosting the state’s economy.” Groups in support: Arkansas Department of Heritage Arkansas Game and Fish Commission Arkansas Wildlife Federation National Wildlife Federation Perry County Chamber of Commerce Perry County Conservation District Saline County Judge Jeff Arey Perry County Judge Toby Davis Background Information: The Flatside Wilderness Enhancement Act, H.R. 5636, would do the following: Add to the wilderness area approximately 640 acres of existing National Forest lands next to Forked Mountain which has been depicted as “Recommended Wilderness Additions since 2005.” These areas have been managed as wilderness land since that time. Request that the US Forest Service study select acreage of existing National Forest lands bordering Flatside Wilderness as potential additions to the wilderness area. Following the inventory and evaluation of these additional areas; those that are appropriate for wilderness designation would be admitted to Flatside Wilderness; those that would not be suitable for wilderness would then continue to be managed under the applicable land management plan. Click here to view the map of Flatside Wilderness.
05.02.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced the winners of Arkansas’s Second Congressional District at the Congressional Art Competition Reception on Tuesday, May 1, 2018. This year, Rep. Hill’s office received 86 submissions from high school students in central Arkansas, and these works were showcased during a reception at the Historic Art Museum. The winners were: First place "Mirror Image" By Heidi Tandiono, Little Rock Central High School Second place "Mandela Self Portrait" by Haley Ashcraft, Vilonia High School Third place "Faces of Our Nation" by Elizabeth Bell, Mount St. Mary Academy Facebook “Fan Favorite” "A Few Inches for Freedom" by Eliza Apuzzo, Vilonia High School Rep. Hill said, “I am continually impressed by the talented artists we have in central Arkansas. It’s encouraging to see young people committed to their craft, especially when that craft is a creative outlet that bolsters the artistic merits of our community. In Washington, D.C., it’s always a highlight of my day to walk past the artwork of students from across the nation on my way to the U.S. Capitol. I look forward to seeing Heidi’s artwork on display, representing our district for the countless visitors to our nation’s capital.” Background Information: Each year, high school students from central Arkansas compete to have their art showcased in the U.S. Capitol. The winner will come to Washington, D.C. this summer to attend a reception for all of the Congressional Art Competition winners.
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR02) issued the following statement after the House passed, by a vote of 393-13, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act: Rep. Hill said, “This five-year FAA reauthorization bill provides long-term stability in our aviation industry, puts passenger safety first, and makes important investments in our airports here in Arkansas and across the country. I am also pleased that the House passed my amendment to require the FAA to report on the ongoing Little Rock VOR Cone relocation project. This amendment will ensure accountability at the FAA, and give the Little Rock Port the opportunity to expand its property, which will help bring economic growth and well-being to the Second Congressional District.” Bryan Day, Executive Director of the Little Rock Port Authority, said, “As the Port of Little Rock continues to acquire land for future industrial prospects and job growth, it is imperative that the community be able to relocate the navigational VOR Cone located within our growth pattern. Congressman Hill’s efforts have ensured that this relocation is being addressed in a timely manner and that Congress understands the value of this project. We are grateful for his work on this issue.” Jay Chesshir, the President & CEO of the Little Rock Chamber of Commerce, said, “While air traffic safety and Little Rock Air Force Base essential training infrastructure are non-negotiable, Congressman French Hill recognizes the significant economic benefit and jobs that central Arkansas citizens will enjoy from an expanded Little Rock Port. His leadership in navigating the LIT VORTAC relocation process has been invaluable.” Click here to listen to my testimony on my FAA Amendment Background: The Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization Act, H.R. 4, is a bipartisan five-year bill to reauthorize the programs and provisions of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Click here to read the bill.
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON – Representative French Hill (R-AR) introduced the Ending the Fentanyl Crisis Act, which is designed to fight the opioid epidemic by strengthening penalties for fentanyl distribution and trafficking and providing additional screening resources for the United States Postal Service. “Across Arkansas, tearful families have told me their stories about how the opioid crisis has personally affected them, which is why I introduced this bill to step up penalties for fentanyl traffickers and provide necessary resources to track illegal shipments,” Rep. Hill said. “In 2017, the opioid epidemic caused over 45,000 deaths and killed more than 100 people a day – with a third of these deaths attributable to fentanyl and similar compounds. We can’t let another Arkansas family be devastated by this crisis, and this bill, coupled with a community-wide effort, will help fight this epidemic. I appreciate Senator Cotton’s support in the Senate on this important issue, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this legislation passed in the House.” “Given fentanyl’s incredible capability for destruction of human life, I am thankful for Congressman Hill’s leadership in the House and his dedication to ending the fentanyl scourge,” Senator Cotton said. “Last year alone, fentanyl killed more than 20,000 Americans, and it has been a driving force behind the opioid crisis in the United States.” Senator Cotton (R-AR) introduced the Ending the Fentanyl Crisis Act in the Senate earlier this year with Senator John Kennedy (R-LA). List of individuals and groups now supporting theEnding the Fentanyl Crisis Act: · Kirk Lane, Arkansas Drug Director · National Sheriff’s Association · Arkansas Association of Chiefs of Police · Arkansas Prosecuting Attorneys Association Background: One gram of fentanyl (approximately the amount in a Sweet ‘N Low packet) is enough to kill 500 people. The last year reported data was available (2016), confirmed drug overdose deaths rose in Arkansas by 17% (from 287 to 335), although law enforcement believes the real number to be much higher. Fentanyl is 100 times more powerful than morphine and has played an outsized role in the opioid epidemic. This bill will reduce the amount of fentanyl and its analogues required for mandatory sentencing minimums to apply in distribution cases. It will also provide resources to the United States Post Office to stop shipments of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids arriving from overseas.
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. French Hill released the following statement on Tax Day: “Traveling around central Arkansas, I have been told over and over again about the real change that Arkansans and Americans are already seeing because of the House’s historic tax reform bill that passed last year. Between lower utility rates, a doubled child tax credit to help families, and increased paychecks, Americans are already enjoying the relief of the House’s historic tax reform bill and can officially close the chapter on one of the most cumbersome tax codes our generation has ever faced. Because of the House’s historic tax reform bill, Arkansas businesses like Walmart, Entergy, and countless others are able to retain more of their earnings, make new investments, and increase training, benefits, and pay for their employees. Because of the House’s historic tax reform bill, Arkansans now are keeping more of what they earn to spend on their families’ priorities as they see fit.”
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON – The U.S. Chamber awarded Congressman French Hill (AR-02) the “Spirit of Enterprise” award, which is given to Members of Congress that display a commitment for pro-business issues during their tenure. Rep. Hill has won this award for the past three years. This is the 30th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. All six members of Arkansas’s Congressional delegation were recipients of this award. Hill said, “I’m dedicated to fostering an environment where Main Street businesses can grow and prosper, and I have long appreciated the U.S. Chamber of Commerce for their support of pro-business issues. When we support our job creators, we support the hardworking Arkansas families that are the success of our great nation.”
04.13.2018	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the House passed his bill, the Volcker Rule Regulatory Harmonization Act of 2018, by a bipartisan vote of 300-104: “As a former Arkansas community banker, I dealt with countless regulatory inconsistencies across federal banking agencies. The Volcker Rule has been one of the most indecipherable with its 930 pages and frequently five different regulatory interpretations. I appreciate my colleagues in the House supporting my commonsense bill to harmonize the regulatory rule interpretation process, and ease the compliance burden for our community banks lending in our local economies. This bill also will help Arkansas families, businesses and public finance issuers by improving our capital markets.” Click here to watch Rep. Hill speak in support of this bill. Background Information: The Volcker Rule Regulatory Harmonization Act of 2018 would do the following: 1. Amends Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act to streamline the regulatory authority over the Volcker Rule by granting the Federal Reserve the exclusive rulemaking authority and providing the primary federal banking agency for a banking entity the sole examination and enforcement authority. 2. Excludes community banks with less than $10 billion in consolidated assets from the Volcker Rule Requirements.
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, H.J.Res. 2, which failed in the House: “Families and businesses have to live within their means, and the federal government shouldn’t be any different. Our federal spending is out of control, and our federal government is too large and it tries to do too much. Arkansans are fed up with the government spending more than it takes in. In 1995, when our national debt was $4.9 trillion, the Senate failed, by a single vote, to pass a balanced budget amendment. Now look where we are today. With our nation’s debt reaching $21.3 trillion, our country’s prosperity and security is in jeopardy. Without balancing our budget, we’re setting ourselves up for financial ruin. I supported this measure because it would have put us on a path towards long-term fiscal responsibility. I am extremely disappointed that it failed, and I remind those who voted against it today that nations not in control of their finances cannot control their future – and this is not a legacy we want to leave our children and grandchildren.” Background: The Proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States, H.J.Res 2, places a limit on federal spending by mandating that the federal budget be balanced each year.
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan announced his retirement today: “Paul is a fine leader and has demonstrated solid leadership in the House. He skillfully led historic tax reform through Congress, developed a pro-growth agenda, and ensured the rebuilding of America’s military. I look forward to his continued leadership until January 2019. Martha and I wish Paul, Janna, and their beautiful family all the best in the years ahead.“
04.06.2018	Little Rock, Arkansas – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) congratulated his inaugural Future Leaders Council class of 2018, and invites applicants for the 2019 class. During the inaugural class of the Future Leaders Council, the students worked closely with Rep. Hill during quarterly meetings between July 2017 and March 2018. The discussion featured topics including the U.S. Constitution, federalism, checks and balances, and how a bill becomes a law. The students heard from guest speakers, including Arkansas State Representative Doug House and Member of Parliament Rehman Chishti from the United Kingdom. The students also held a “mock congress,” in which they debated bill ideas and drafted legislation. Their bills, the Stronger Teachers Act of 2018 and the Fair Pay for the Armed Services in the Republic (FAIR) Act, demonstrated their commitment to quality education and their appreciation for our servicemen and servicewomen. The members of the 2018 Future Leaders Council included: - Wyatt Forte, Cabot, Bayou Meto Elementary School - Sarah Blanche Finzer, Little Rock, Jefferson Elementary School - Bella Eggleston, North Little Rock, Lakewood Elementary School - Ethan Morrison, North Little Rock, Lakewood Elementary School - Evan Randall, North Little Rock, Lakewood Elementary School - Elli Eaton, North Little Rock, Lakewood Elementary School - Keaden Ingram, Conway, Hurricane Creek Elementary School - Kiri Stephan, Bryant, Hurricane Creek Elementary School - Addison Jones, Benton, Hurricane Creek Elementary School - Madison Grace Crum, Greenbrier, Greenbrier Elementary School Hill said: “I am so proud of the 2018 Future Leaders Council who represented some of the smartest and brightest student in central Arkansas. They were a blast to be with, and their hard work, wit, and passion were impressive. I’m looking forward to keeping in touch with them as their academic and professional careers blossom and to welcoming the 2019 class.” Applications for the 2019 Future Leaders Council are now being accepted. The program is open to students who will be in fifth graders during the 2018-19 school year. Please contact Chloe Maxwell at chloe.maxwell@mail.house.gov or call (501) 324-5941 for more information.
04.06.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House Judiciary Committee announced that the House of Representatives will vote on a balanced budget amendment next week: “Arkansans are fed up with the government spending more than it takes in, which is why in March, I asked House Leadership to put a balanced budget amendment to the House for a vote – and next week we will take this vote. Balancing America’s budget is the first step in stewardship and responsible governing, and it will save our children and grandchildren from the dangerous effects of running our nation on debt.”
03.22.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Right to Try Act, which passed by a vote of 267-149: “Tonight, we voted to remove unnecessary bureaucratic red tape for terminally ill patients and their families. These patients deserve the option to receive investigational drugs that have passed the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) basic safety testing without having to ask the agency for permission first. This common sense measure will facilitate a potentially life-saving chance for dying Americans.” Background: The Right to Try Act, H.R. 5247, allows terminally ill patients who have exhausted all other options to try medications that have passed basic FDA safety protocols but not completed the full, multiyear approval process. This bill safeguards any pharmaceutical company that may wish to participate in Right to Try, but it in no way requires participation, nor does it impose a mandate on anyone. Instead, this legislation gives patients who have no other options a chance. Specifically, the bill will: Establish a robust informed consent to access unapproved drugs. Specify that any unapproved drug used in the new alternative pathway must have an active application and is not the subject of a clinical hold. Include a sponsor and manufacturer notification to the FDA after they make an unapproved drug available to an eligible patient. Guard patients from manufacturers purposefully misbranding or mislabeling drugs. Provide liability protections for manufacturers, sponsors, physicians, clinical investigators, and hospitals that participate in the existing expanded access program and the new alternative pathway unless there is reckless or willful misconduct, gross negligence, or an intentional tort. Obligate sponsors and manufacturers to report adverse events in real time, through notification to the FDA – both within the existing expanded access program and through the new alternative pathway. Provide certainty to manufacturers regarding how the FDA will use patient outcomes when evaluating new drug applications.
03.22.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting a government spending measure that provides stability for our troops by fully funding our defense and also includes funds to combat the opioid epidemic: “We are finally fully funding our airmen and women at Little Rock Air Force Base and in the Arkansas National Guard - giving our troops the first pay increase in eight years. It’s critical that our troops have the tools, training, and supplies they need to protect our homeland and carry out their missions abroad. This bill also makes improvements to and fully funds the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background System (NICS), a necessary step to keep guns out of the hands of people with a criminal history. It also includes funding for Department of Justice grant programs that strengthen protocols, training, and other vital components of school security to better protect our students and teachers. Overall, the bill provides more than $2.3 billion for mental health, training, and school safety programs. Further, the opioid crisis has touched every Arkansas family, and this bill allocates $4.7 billion to fight that crisis. I have spoken with many Arkansans about their priority of keeping their nation and families safe, informing my vote today, and I’m pleased to see my colleagues put the safety of Arkansans and Americans first.” Background: Our budget and appropriations process is broken and this funding bill demonstrates the failure of the Senate to meet the most fundamental Constitutional task of appropriating. Earlier this year, Rep. Hill requested that the House hold a vote on a balanced budget amendment in order to compel the government to better prioritize spending hard-earned tax dollars. He was given a pledge from House Leadership that we will vote on a balanced budget amendment. Since the 1980’s our mandatory spending went from 30 percent of our budget to a startling 70 percent today. Rep. Hill is calling on our President to work with Congress to craft mandatory spending reforms that would put us on a sustainable pathway to fiscal stability, ensuring that future generations are not shouldered with insurmountable debt.
03.21.2018	Today, the Financial Services Committee advanced eight bills for future House consideration, including Congressman French Hill’s legislation, the Volcker Regulatory Harmonization Act. He issued the following statement: “As a former community banker, I have dealt with countless regulatory inconsistencies across the federal banking agencies. The Volcker Rule has been one of the most indecipherable given this rule is over 930 pages long and names five different agencies as regulatory authorities. My common sense bill attempts to streamline the regulatory rule-making and enforcement process, and this simple fix will ease the regulatory burden for our community banks lending in our local economies. It also will improve liquidity in the stock and bond markets and contribute to better pricing and services important to all Arkansas families like home mortgages and credit cards.” Click here to watch Rep. Hill discuss his bill. Background The Volcker Rule Regulatory Harmonization Act. on H.R. 4790, would do the following: Amends Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act to streamline the regulatory authority over the Volcker Rule by granting the Federal Reserve the exclusive rulemaking authority and providing the primary federal banking agency for a banking entity the sole examination and enforcement authority. Excludes community banks with $10 billion or less in consolidated assets and minimal trading assets from the Volcker Rule Requirements. This provision is similar to Section 203 of S. 2155, “Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act,” which passed the Senate on March 14, 2018.
03.19.2018	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) and member of Parliament Rehman Chishti today announced an educational partnership between Little Rock Central High School and the Rainham Mark Grammar School of Gillingham, Kent. In 2017, at the invitation of Congressman Hill, MP Chishti visited Little Rock and had the opportunity to see historic Central High. MP Chishti met principal Nancy Rousseau and learned of their nationally recognized academic excellence. He was also impressed with the school’s historic and critical role in the American civil rights movement. Congressman Hill, in a recent visit to Kent, had the opportunity to meet the head teacher at Rainham Mark, Simon Decker, as well as an impressive group of students. He was pleased to learn that faculty are most interested in a student exchange centered on history, politics, and computing, as well as the opportunity to learn more about each other's lives, dreams, and aspirations. Congressman French Hill said, “We are pleased to announce the twinning of our schools. I’ve enjoyed working with my good friend MP Chishti, along with Principal Rousseau and Principal Decker to make this partnership a reality. This is an excellent opportunity for our students and teachers, both in central Arkansas and Gillingham, Kent, to immerse themselves in rich educational and cultural exchanges.” Member of Parliament Rehman Chishti said, “Delighted to work with my good friend Congressman French Hill in getting our two local schools connected and students and staff sharing ideas on many key issues which affect students in both our local constituencies. In today’s interconnected world great to see our future generation sharing ideas working together in helping make our world a better place for all.” Central High Principal Nancy Rousseau said, “This partnership will be mutually beneficial for both schools.” Rainham Mark Grammar School Principal Simon Decker said, “It was great to meet Congressman Hill on his recent visit to Kent and Rainham Mark are very much looking forward to this exciting link with students and staff at Little Rock. Students are already busy planning for next month’s online student discussion, which will include the important issue of encouraging more girls into Computing, Science and Technology subjects. English and History links are also planned and we know that this will be the start of a constructive exploration of the similarities and differences between British and American issues, views and cultures.”
03.15.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) issued the following statement after the administration announced their plan to place sanctions on five entities and 19 individuals connected to the Russian cyber-attacks on the United States and our allies: “Last month, I questioned Treasury Secretary Mnuchin during his testimony before the House Financial Services Committee about the timing of these sanctions, and I was told they would be executed in the coming months. I’m pleased to see Secretary Mnuchin and his department living up to his pledge by sanctioning Russian bad actors for meddling in the 2016 elections. These sanctions against Russia send a powerful message that America will not tolerate incursions into our democracy.” These sanctions are pursuant to the Countering Our Adversaries Through Sanctions Act. Background: The Countering Our Adversaries Through Sanctions Act I supported H.R. 3364, which was signed into law in August 2017, and lists 12 types of sanctions that can be imposed on Russians and it obliges the President to use at least five in many case against those targeted. They can include freezing assets, revoking US visas, and banning exports from the United States to those sanctioned. Actions to be sanctioned for committing human rights abuses, significant acts of corruption, helping the Syrian government obtain arms, significant relationships with Russia's energy sector, intelligence, and defense agencies, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and annexation of Crimea, and Russia undermining US cyber security. The Fight Russian Corruption Act Additionally, in June 2017, I coauthored with Rep. Tom Suozzi (D-NY) H.R.2820, a bipartisan piece of legislation. This bill would amend the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to require the Department of State to establish the Office of Anti-Corruption relating to Illicit Russian Financial Activities in Europe. This office would: (1) analyze financial networks of the Russian Federation operating in European countries that relate to real estate, energy, media, infrastructure, and other sectors; and (2) train U.S. liaison officers to serve in key U.S. diplomatic and consular posts in such countries to cooperate with foreign partners in uncovering and prosecuting illicit Russian financial activity. In addition, this office would work with the Treasury Department to train U.S. diplomats in working with foreign partners in uncovering and prosecuting illegal Russian financial activity, among other things. It would also work with our NATO allies in elevating anti-corruption as part of NATO’s Readiness Action Plan.
03.14.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting a measure to help protect students, parents, teachers, and others at school: “Central Arkansas families deserve to know that their kids are safe and secure at school. As a father of a high school student and college student, this issue hits close to home. It makes no sense that we protect our airports, homes, and businesses, but don’t adequately protect our own kids and teachers at school. We took action in the House today by passing legislation that dedicated $75 million to strengthening protocols, training, and other vital components of school security. This is just a first step to enhance the safety of our students, parents, teachers, and others. “Our children should feel safe everywhere they go in America - especially in our schools. Sixteen days ago, I joined the Arkansas Congressional Delegation in a meeting with Governor Asa Hutchinson to discuss ways to make our schools safer. In 2015, Arkansas passed legislation to enable Arkansas schools to improve security by certifying personnel to be licensed as a commissioned school security officer. Nineteen schools, including three in central Arkansas, have taken advantage of this program. Also, yesterday, Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) and I met with White House Domestic Policy Council staff at the White House to discuss this program, and other suggestions, in preparation for Education Secretary Betsy DeVos’ upcoming school security commission – and I look forward to continuing this discussion and finding ways to increase school safety and security throughout the country.” Background: The STOP School Violence Act, H.R. 4909, creates a grant program to train students, teachers, school officials, and local law enforcement how to identify and intervene early when signs of violence arise, creates a coordinated reporting system, and implements FBI and Secret Service-based school threat assessment protocols to prevent school shootings before they happen. The legislation authorizes funding for: Evidence-based investments in the development and operation of FBI and Secret Service-based school threat assessment teams to help schools to intake and triage threats before tragedy strikes. Implementation of anonymous reporting systems for students in coordination with local law enforcement. Training and technical assistance for students, school personnel, and law enforcement to identify signs of violence and intervene early to prevent students from hurting themselves and others. Facilitating coordination between schools and local law enforcement. Measures at the discretion of the Director that may provide significant improvement in school security.
03.08.2018	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Department of Defense (DoD) as February’s winner of the Golden Fleece award for the mismanagement and waste of taxpayer funds in Afghanistan. In the letter to the Department of Defense Secretary James Mattis, Congressman Hill wrote: March 8, 2018 The Honorable James Mattis Secretary Department of Defense 1000 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Mattis: I write today to inform you that your agency is February’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) for waste outlined in a recent report by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR). According to the SIGAR 18-19 Audit Report, DOD’s Task Force for Business and Stability Operations (TFBSO) awarded at least $675 million in contracts between 2010 and 2014. Of that total, $316 million in projects that were funded between 2010 and 2014 to boost the Afghan economy, and 78 percent of the contracts failed to meet their goals. One example is the awarding of a more than $400,000 sole source contract for the construction of a cold storage facility. According to contracting documents, the contractor completed its construction work for the shell building, but upon inspection by the SIGAR in 2017, no evidence was found that the building existed. Further, an internal TFBSO memorandum acknowledged this contract was awarded without doing an industry analysis or fully vetting the recipient company. Another example is TFBSO obligating $51 million between 2010 and 2014 for legal, technical, and commercial experts to support the Afghan Ministry of Mines and Petroleum with tendering contracts for Afghanistan’s mineral deposits. The goal was for TFBSO to facilitate the award of at least eight mineral contracts. However, with four of these, TFBSO’s assistance stopped partway through the process, and the four others have yet to be awarded at all. The SIGAR report expressed concerns that even if these contracts are all eventually awarded the government of Afghanistan lacks the audit and enforcement capabilities to hold the contract awardees accountable if they violate the terms of the contract. These are just two out of dozens of examples of projects that failed to meet few or any of their contract goals. I am committed to ensuring effective spending practices at our Nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress
03.08.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s announcement on the implementation of tariffs on aluminum and steel: “While I respect President Trump’s decision to protect American interests, I remain concerned with the unintended consequences that these tariffs on aluminum and steel will have – especially on Arkansas’s workers and employers. Tokusen U.S.A. in Conway, Arkansas, a company primarily in the business of manufacturing steel tire cord, could be negatively impacted by these across-the-board tariffs, and said the result would be ‘catastrophic’ for their business. Tariffs are a blunt instrument that should be used in only targeted ways on specific countries and products. Steel tariffs didn’t work when President Bush implemented them in 2002 or when President Obama proposed them on tires in 2009. I regret President Trump’s decision to implement these tariffs, because as recent history has shown us, they could ultimately backfire and hurt American workers and consumers.”
03.07.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s announcement on tariffs for aluminum and steel as a result of the Department of Commerce’s Section 232 Investigations: “Hardworking Arkansans and Americans are reaping the benefits of tax reform with record low unemployment, bonuses, and more money in their wallets. While I respect President Trump’s decision to protect American interests, I remain concerned with the unintended consequences that his proposed tariffs on aluminum and steel could have – especially on Arkansas’s workers and employers. Tokusen U.S.A. in Conway, Arkansas, a company primarily in the business of manufacturing steel tire cord, will be negatively affected if the proposed across-the-board tariffs are implemented, stating that it would be ‘catastrophic’ for their business. That’s why today, 106 of my colleagues and I urged the President to address distortions caused by China’s unfair trade practices in a targeted way that doesn’t include sweeping tariffs that could backfire if the ultimate goal is to help American workers and employers.” Read the letter here. Background: Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 affords the president broad powers in determining whether certain imports have a negative effect on the country’s national security. First, the secretary of the Department of Commerce must present the president with a report and recommendations on the import in question within 270 days of launching an investigation. Then, the president has 90 days to act. Last April, President Trump issued two Presidential Memorandums to Secretary of Commerce Wilbur L. Ross, Jr. directing the Department of Commerce to initiate two Section 232 investigations into the impact of aluminum and steel imports on national security. During the investigations the Department of Commerce examined: Whether aluminum or steel imports impair the ability of the domestic aluminum industry to meet U.S. national defense needs. Whether aluminum or steel imports have any substantial effects on employment or government revenue. Whether aluminum or steel imports weaken the U.S. internal economy, recognizing the close relationship between economic welfare and national security.
03.05.2018	Senators Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) and John Boozman (R-Arkansas), and Congressmen Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03), and Bruce Westerman (AR-04) today released the following statement applauding CMS’s approval of work requirements for Arkansas’s Medicaid program: “Encouraging people who can work to find employment is a common-sense policy with a track record of success. It not only focuses Medicaid dollars on those who need it most; it also helps people get back into the workforce and move up the income ladder. We’re glad to see Governor Hutchinson pursue a reform for which we’ve long advocated, and we applaud the Trump administration for approving our state’s new policy.”
02.28.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after Entergy Arkansas, Inc. committed to lower utility rates. Entergy Arkansas, Inc. stated that there will be approximately $466 million dollars in benefits for hardworking individuals and families in Arkansas as a result of Congress passing tax reform: “I want to thank Entergy Arkansas for their commitment to lower the utility rates for hardworking Arkansans as a direct result of the House’s tax reform that passed in December. This is yet another positive result of the tax reform.” Background In January, the Arkansas Public Service Commission (APSC) issued an order directing investor-owned utilities to record for accounting purposes a regulatory liability consisting of the estimated tax benefit from January 1 forward. In response, Entergy Arkansas Inc. filed a plan Tuesday to pass along $466 million in benefits to their customers because of the federal tax cut Congress approved last year. The company said that if approved by the APSC, the plan could result in an estimated $20 in savings per month for every 1000 kWh consumed from April to December 2019 by residential customers. In December, Congress passed and President Donald Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Energy providers will benefit from the corporate tax cut included in that legislation, according to a news release.
02.27.2018	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the House passed a bill by a vote of 388-25 to give states additional tools to fight human trafficking: “Sex trafficking is an appalling criminal enterprise. According to the FBI, sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. As many as 300,000 children in the United States are at risk of becoming victims, and my vote today is for all of the Arkansans who agree that this scourge needs to be shut down once and for all. In Central Arkansas, I am proud to work with the Centers for Youth and Families, which, for over 130 years, has worked to buildup healthy children, families, and community centers. These centers have expanded their missions for care by providing trauma-informed treatment for victims of human trafficking. Partners Against Trafficking Humans (PATH) also provides key services to victims while raising awareness and advocating on their behalf to insure survivors receive the care and services they deserve. Closing the paths and punishing the perpetrators is the only way to stop the victimization of our children and communities, and I was proud to take this bipartisan vote today.” Background: The Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act, H.R. 1865, creates a new federal criminal law against websites that intentionally promote prostitution, lowers the standard of proof necessary to prosecute websites for hosting sex trafficking content, creates a civil right of action for sex trafficking victims, and ensures that certain state-level prosecutions for sex trafficking can proceed notwithstanding Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act.
02.26.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced a change in date for the Saline County Mobile Office Hours. It will now take place Wednesday, March 7, 2018. Saline County WHEN Wednesday, March 7, 2018 | 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE Bob Hetzfeld Memorial Library 1800 Smithers Drive Benton, AR 72015 *Please note that the Saline County Mobile Office Hours originally were slated to take place Wednesday, February 28, 2018.
02.17.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement on Mueller’s indictment of the 13 Russian nationals: “I was glad to see the Special Counsel indict 13 Russian nationals that sought to interfere with our political system. Their actions once again prove to us that Russia is not to be trusted as they continue their longstanding tradition of trying to meddle in our political affairs. This time, though, they added manipulation of the popular and now ubiquitous social media platforms in effort to influence American voters – committing federal crimes. I’m grateful to hear from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein that they were not successful in their attempt to alter the outcome of the 2016 Presidential election. And I’m glad we are learning how to better counter external interference by future Russian or any other foreign actor in election meddling. Which is why I helped design and sponsor Rep. Tom Souzzi's bill (D-NY), the Fight Russian Corruption Act, that establishes an office of European anti-Russian corruption in the State Department and provides for American expertise to help our European allies fight corruption and Russian political interference. "
02.15.2018	Congressman French Hill, Majority Whip of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement, criticizing Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s request for a $4 billion bailout from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and calling for Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Director Mel Watt to suspend payments to the Housing Trust Fund. “As a taxpayer in this country, I am deeply troubled by the recent multi-billion-dollar bailout request by our largest government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We, the taxpayers, through the Treasury Department, still back the GSEs with a line of credit standing at over $250 billion. It’s ludicrous that at the same time he is requesting a multi-billion-dollar bailout, FHFA Director Mel Watt continues to direct taxpayer dollars into the Housing Trust Fund. This is unacceptable, and I urge my colleagues to support my bill, H.R. 4560, the GSE Jumpstart Reauthorization Act, because rather than increasing taxpayer exposure by withholding money, it is time to mandate that the GSEs pay their bills to taxpayers before growing this Trust Fund.” “I encourage Director Watt to meet with the House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo to come to an agreement on the architecture of successful secondary market reforms that facilitate housing markets and operates in a safe and sound manner for taxpayers.”
02.14.2018	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the House passed his bill, the TRID Improvement Act, by a vote of 271-145: “For an Arkansas family, purchasing a home is one of the most important events, and the last things they want are hidden costs and fees. Arkansas families can breathe a little easier tonight because my bill that passed the House eases one part of the complex maze of regulations created by Dodd-Frank regulations, ensuring that homebuyers are able to get from financial institutions to share accurate information about the cost of title insurance during the mortgage closing process. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to join the House in passing this common sense bill.” Click here to watch video. Background Information: The TRID (TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure) Improvement Act, H.R. 3978, modifies requirements related to mortgage disclosures and offers clarification to consumers and regulatory relief to financial institutions. In October 2015, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) implemented the Know Before You Owe (KBYO) or TRID mortgage disclosure rule. This rule integrated a series of mortgage forms and was designed to assist consumers with better understanding the home closing process, but it has had the opposite effect. In the majority of states, consumers are not receiving an accurate disclosure of their title insurance premiums. In these states, the CFPB does not allow the calculation of a discounted rate known as “simultaneous issue,” which is a rate title insurance companies provide to consumers when they purchase a lenders and owners title insurance policy simultaneously. This rate provides consumers with an effective discount on their owners title insurance policy in order to protect their property rights for as long as they own their home. The CFPB is unwilling to fix this problem on its own, calling on Congress to act.
02.13.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that members of his staff will hold Mobile Office Hours in Van Buren, Conway, White, Perry, Faulkner, Pulaski, and Saline counties from Tuesday, February 20, 2018 to Wednesday, February 28, 2018. “Because Central Arkansans are not always able to visit my staff in our Conway and Little Rock offices, my team will be on hand at locations throughout Central Arkansas ready to assist you,” said Rep. Hill. “During office hours, my staff can assist you with Social Security, Veterans Benefits, Immigration Services, and Internal Revenue Service questions, as well as other constituent services such as flying a flag over the U.S. Capitol and student nominations to the U.S. Service Academies.” Van Buren County WHEN: Tuesday, February 20, 2018 | 2:00 PM – 4:00 PM WHERE: Chimes Community Center 4254 Hwy 254W Leslie, Arkansas 72645 Conway County WHEN: Wednesday, February 21, 2018 | 2:00 PM – 4:00 PM WHERE: Menifee City Hall 68 N. Mustang Street Menifee, AR 72107 White County WHEN: Thursday, February 22, 2018 | 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM WHERE: Pangburn Library 914 Main Street Pangburn, AR 72121 Perry Country WHEN: Friday, February 23, 2018 | 1:00 PM – 3:00 PM WHERE: Perryville City Hall 613 N. Fourche Avenue Perryville, AR 72126 Faulkner County WHEN: Friday, February 23, 2018 | 4:00 PM – 6:00 PM WHERE: Greenbrier Event Center (Community Room) 5 Lois Lane Greenbrier, AR 72058 Pulaski County WHEN: Tuesday, February 27, 2018 | 3:00 PM – 5:00 PM WHERE: American Legion – Post 74 (Veteran’s Mobile Office) 821 Magnolia Street North Little Rock, AR 72114 Saline County WHEN: Wednesday, March 7, 2018 | 10:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Bob Hetzfeld Memorial Library 1800 Smithers Drive Benton, AR 72015
02.09.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting for the Bipartisan Budget Act: “I supported this measure because I’m strongly committed to keeping our government open and funding our common defense in order to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the resources and tools they need to protect our homeland and carry out their missions abroad. After years of severe cuts to our military, we are properly funding our defense by giving our troops their first pay raise in eight years and providing them with weapon upgrades, enhanced missile defense systems, and better training and supplies. “However, our budget process is broken. We need to end the cycle of running our nation on short-term spending bills. I believe that extending our debt limit without any substantial reforms will only provide greater uncertainty in our financial markets, and, in turn, negatively affect Arkansan and American families. I commend bipartisan leadership for their efforts to reform the appropriations process, but this is not sufficient in and of itself. Which is why I requested that the House hold a vote on a balanced budget amendment in order to compel the government to better prioritize the spending of hard-earned tax dollars, and I’ve gotten a pledge from House Leadership that we will vote on a balanced budget amendment before the next spending deadline. I’m also calling on our President to propose mandatory reforms to put us on a sustainable pathway to fiscal stability and ensure that future generations are not shouldered with insurmountable debt. “We’ve been successful in delivering comprehensive tax reform to families, so it’s time to apply that same level of dedication to getting our nation’s checkbook under control. Our children and their children’s children deserve to have the opportunity to live out their dreams and hope in a better future - and that starts with getting our fiscal house in order.”
02.07.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting a short-term spending bill that funds vital priorities like the U.S. military and public health programs until March 23, 2018: “Running our nation on short-term spending bills is not a responsible way to govern, and I am proud of the House’s work to pass all twelve appropriations bills last year. Right now, however, we must ensure our common defense is fully operational, and this bill gives our soldiers the tools and resources they need to carry out their missions. When I talk to the men and women serving in the Arkansas National Guard and the Little Rock Air Force Base, I consistently hear why stable budgets are central to protecting our homeland. This bill also funds public health priorities that Arkansans rely upon including Community Health Centers that over 195,000 Arkansans use. This measure secures a permanent repeal of Medicare’s current cap of paying for roughly $2,000 in outpatient therapy services, as well as a five-year extension of Medicare add-on payments for rural home health and ambulance services, which will greatly benefit Arkansans who use these services.” Background: Click here to read the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1892 – Further Extension of Continuing Appropriations Act.
01.31.2018	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as the first winner of the Golden Fleece award of 2018 for the mismanagement of manufactured trailers during their response to 2017 natural disasters. In the letter to the FEMA Administrator William B. “Brock” Long, Congressman Hill wrote: January 31, 2018 The Honorable William B. "Brock" Long Administrator Federal Emergency Management Agency 500 C St SW Washington, DC 20024-2523 Dear Administrator Long: I write today to inform you that your agency is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for what appears to be the mismanagement of manufactured trailers during their response to 2017 natural disasters. First, on December 27, 2017, the Associated Press reported that FEMA typically buys manufactured trailers at around $150,000 each, leases these trailers to disaster victims, and then auctions off the trailers after 18 months of use or the first sign of minor damage. According to the report, these trailers are sold for “pennies on the dollar,” and more than 100 were auctioned off in the two days leading up to Hurricane Harvey’s landfall. Also, FEMA has continued auctioning off these trailers while awarding more than $278 million in contracts to trailer manufacturers and despite thousands of people still applying for temporary federal housing. I believe that selling off trailers needed for disaster victims with only minor damage or 18 months of use is a waste of resources, depriving desperate individuals of potential homes. Second, while I was pleased to see local reporting that overstocked food owned by FEMA and intended for Puerto Rico was distributed to local communities, I heard disturbing reports from constituents in Arkansas that overstocked disaster food owned by FEMA was going to waste and FEMA was unable to redistribute that food. I request that you please address the following questions: What is FEMA’s official policy for the purchase and sale of manufactured trailers intended as temporary housing after natural disasters? How many trailers has FEMA auctioned off in the last five fiscal years, at what average cost, and how long after initial purchase by FEMA? What is FEMA’s official policy for the redistribution of food that is no longer needed in the originally intended disaster area? Did any food intended for disaster stricken areas after the 2017 hurricanes have to be thrown away? How much food intended for disaster areas was able to be redistributed to other communities? Last year’s hurricane season was the costliest in our nation’s history, and when our country is currently more than $20 trillion in debt our federal agencies must be good stewards of taxpayers’ dollars. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration, and I look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress
01.30.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting to fund the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018: “Today’s vote in the House to fully fund the Department of Defense will directly benefit Arkansas families through a 2.4 percent pay raise for our troops, enhanced programs to support our military families, and additional funds for cutting edge defense technology. The House has voted three times now to fund these priorities without action in the Senate. Our Armed Forces need the tools and resources to respond to the unprecedented national security threats both home and abroad, and we call on our colleagues in the Senate to take this consensus bill up and pass it.” Background: For more information on House Amendment to Senate Amendment, H.R. 695, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2018, click here.
01.22.2018	Congressman Hill’s Little Rock and Washington, D.C. offices are open and will remain open during regular business hours. The Conway office is temporarily closed due to limited staffing. If you need immediate assistance, please call (501) 324-5941 or (202) 225-2506. You may also contact me at hill.house.gov.
01.22.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after the House and Senate passed a measure to reopen the government: “I’m glad to see Senate Minority Leader Schumer come to his senses and persuade his colleagues to provide the votes to fund our government including our military and health care for children. The 120,000 kids in Arkansas are thankful that during this flu season, they will be able to access the care they need through the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). Our men and women in uniform will again be paid for their service and they will have the tools they need to respond to the unprecedented national security threats across the nation and globe. The House has passed all of our spending bills through the committee process and approved them before our September 30, 2017 deadline. I urge the Senate to pass these measures, so we will not continue running our country on short-term continuing resolutions.”
01.21.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) required that his pay be withheld until the government reopens.
01.20.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats shut down the government: “Instead of doing the right thing by funding our military, providing health care for our children, and supporting key governmental entities that serve Arkansans and all Americans, Democrats have shut down our government over unrelated issues and unrelated deadlines. I’ve said it a dozen times, but I’ll say it again – unlike the Senate, the House passed all of our spending bills through the committee process and approved them before our September 30, 2017 deadline. “It’s utterly shameful that the other side of the aisle is using our children and men and women in uniform as political bargaining chips. I have publicly stated that I strongly support finding an equitable solution for those undocumented immigrants brought here by their parents through no fault of their own. I have met with some of these Dreamers from Arkansas, and I believe the Democrats are only using them as leverage to score political points on the last page of a budget bill that has nothing to do with immigration. Further, at this time of unprecedented national security threats, Democrats are jeopardizing funding, training, new systems, and strategic upgrades to meet the rapidly changing landscape in North Asia, the Middle East, and in the global cyber sphere. “Republicans want to find a solution to this issue, and there are multiple proposals currently in the Congress, but the political grandstanding from the Democrats saying ‘it’s our way or nothing’ only hurts the chances of finding a compromise. Instead of playing politics, I urge Democrats to prioritize funding for our military, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), federal agencies and our federal workers, and other key governmental entities to ensure they have the resources they need to fulfill their duties and serve hardworking Arkansans and Americans.”
01.19.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement supporting a short-term measure to fund government operations at current funding levels until February 16, 2018: “I’m sick and tired of voting on short-term spending bills, but I’m not going to vote to shut down the government at the expense of our men and women in uniform, especially given the evolving threats around the world. As I have said repeatedly, the ball is in the Senate’s court because the House has already passed all twelve of our spending bills. We need to stop playing politics with our military, our Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), and broken immigration system. I supported this measure the House passed tonight to ensure our common defense is fully operational and our soldiers have the proper tools and resources to carry out their missions. It’s also critical to fund priorities that Arkansans reply upon such as CHIP and the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which this bill does. We must ensure our military, federal agencies, and other key governmental entities have the resources they need to fulfill their duties and serve hardworking Arkansans and Americans.” Background: Click here to read the Continuing Appropriations Act of 2018.
01.19.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting in favor for the Born Alive Abortion Survivor’s Protection Act, which passed the House by a vote of 241-183: “Any baby who survives the brutality of an abortion deserves the same care and treatment as any other child. I’m proud to support this measure today because life is sacred. As a Catholic and pro-life Arkansan, I believe we have a moral obligation to protect every life, no matter how small, and I remain committed to this fight. As we gather from across the country this ‘Right to Life’ weekend, we call attention to the pain and trauma of abortion. I urge all Americans to continue to pray for changes in the hearts and for families to select adoption.” Background: The Born Alive Abortion Survivor’s Protection Act, H.R. 4712, ensures that any child born alive during an abortion procedure receives the same degree of professional care to save the life of the child that any other child born alive at the same gestational age would receive. This measure also mandates that abortion survivors be immediately admitted to a hospital, and protects women who receive abortions from being prosecuted and allows them to file civil action.
01.18.2018	This week, Speaker Paul Ryan appointed Congressman French Hill (AR-02) to serve on the Japan-United States Friendship Commission, an independent federal government agency established by Congress in 1975. The commission’s mission is to promote partnerships that advance common interests and aims to strengthen the U.S.-Japan relationship through educational, cultural, and intellectual exchange. “Japan and the United States share a vital partnership, and I’m grateful for the opportunity to serve on this worthy commission,” said Rep. Hill. “Japan is the fourth largest recipient of Arkansas exports, and Japanese-owned Tokusen USA, which is located in my Congressional District, is an important part of our Central Arkansas community. I thank Speaker Ryan for appointing me to this commission, and I’m honored to be a part of our efforts to further strengthen the economic and national security of the U.S.-Japan relationship.” “Representative Hill’s background representing the United States in the historic bilateral talks with Japan known as the Structural Impediments Initiative (SII) and his work strengthening U.S.-partnerships around the globe make him a great addition to this commission,” said Speaker Ryan. “I appreciate his willingness to serve, and I’m confident he will do a great job helping to advance our U.S.-Japan relationship.”
01.18.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the World Bank Accountability Act: “The World Bank’s extravagant and unaccountable spending practices have been in conflict with the values of Arkansans and Americans for far too long. This bill helps put an end to sending hard-earned American dollars to despots and corrupt regimes, stop the culture of measuring success not by ‘how effective’ but by ‘how much,’ and see these funds used how they were truly intended, which is to help lift individuals out of poverty and put them on the pathway to success.” Click HERE to watch Rep. Hill’s floor speech on the World Bank Accountability Act. Background: The World Bank Accountability Act, H.R. 3326, withdraws up to 30 percent of future appropriations for the World Bank’s International Development Association (IDA) until the Secretary of the Treasury reports that the Bank has undertaken reforms to fight corruption, strengthen management accountability, and undermine violent extremism. This legislation also calls for the United States to oppose Bank assistance to IDA countries that knowingly fail to enforce UN Security Council sanctions against North Korea.
01.12.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after President Trump signed his bill, H.R. 2611, the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act, into law: “It’s an exciting, historic day for Arkansas and Little Rock as President Trump signed my bill into law today that preserves Arkansas’s important role in ending so-called ‘separate but equal.’ This could not come at a better time as we recently celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Little Rock Nine’s brave actions integrating Little Rock Central High School. Together with the school, seven homes across the street from Central High will now stand as living monuments to the civil rights movement in Arkansas and the United States. I was pleased to work with Senator Tom Cotton, the neighborhood, and the National Park Service to make this a reality, and I’m pleased that this bill is now law because Arkansas's history is America's history.”
01.12.2018	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced the Volcker Rule Regulatory Harmonization Act of 2018, H.R. 4790, to increase enhanced coordination among the federal banking regulatory agencies as it relates to the Volcker Rule. Congressman Hill, the Majority Whip of the House Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement: “As a former community banker, I have dealt with the confusion associated with regulatory inconsistencies across the federal banking agencies, the Volcker Rule having become being one of the most indecipherable. Given the Rule has over 270 federal register pages and names four different agencies as regulatory authorities, my bill attempts to streamline the regulatory rulemaking and enforcement process. This simple clarification will not only ease the regulatory burden for our local banks, it will enhance capital formation and financing options.” Background Information: The Volcker Rule Regulatory Harmonization Act of 2018 would do the following: Amends Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act to streamline the regulatory authority over the Volcker Rule by granting the Federal Reserve the exclusive rulemaking authority and providing the primary federal banking agency for a banking entity the sole examination and enforcement authority. Excludes community banks with $10 billion or less in consolidated assets from the Volcker Rule Requirements.
01.12.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after the Arkansas Public Service Commission (APSC) issued an order to investor-owned utilities in Arkansas: “Thanks to the tax reform bill passed by Congress and signed into law in December, the APSC was able to take the first step in in lowering utility payments for hard-working Arkansans. This is yet another positive benefit of tax reform for the people of our state.” Background The APSC issued an order today directing investor-owned utilities to record for accounting purposes a regulatory liability consisting of the estimated tax benefit from January 1, 2018 forward. In December 2017, Congress passed and President Donald Trump signed into law the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Energy providers will benefit from the corporate tax cut included in that legislation. Governor Asa Hutchinson also wrote a letter yesterday to the APSC stating, “Investor-owned utilities have a monopoly, regulated by the Public Service Commission, on providing electricity and natural gas services to Arkansas’ families and businesses. Arkansas law allows utility providers to charge rates that recover the cost of providing utility service plus a rate of return on investment. Federal income taxes paid by the utility are one such cost.” Read the letter here.
01.11.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting for the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017: “I believe this measure achieves the delicate balance of prioritizing national security interests while ensuring the privacy of everyday Americans. FISA Section 702 is a critical tool to keep our homeland safe from terrorism, and this bill reauthorizes this vital program while protecting the constitutional and individual privacy rights of U.S. citizens. I’m committed to working closely with my colleagues in Congress to ensure sensitive information concerning our national security is kept secure, while constitutional freedoms for all Americans are protected.” Background: The FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act of 2017, S. 139, reauthorizes Section 702 (set to expire on January 19, 2018), which permits the government to target non-U.S. persons located outside the United States for surveillance for the purpose of acquiring foreign intelligence information. This is to occur while protecting the constitutional and privacy interest of any U.S. person whose information may be incidentally acquired during the collection activity.
01.09.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting for a resolution supporting the Iranian people, H.Res.676, that passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 415-2. “I stand with the people of Iran in their peaceful protests against the oppressive and corrupt mullahs of Iran. The measure we passed today in the House states without question that we condemn the mullahs’ brutal actions and affront to freedom of expression and respect for the rule of law.”
01.08.2018	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi participated in this Saturday’s Orthodox Christmas Mass: “Many of us in the Congress were pleased to see Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi join Coptic Pope Tawadros II in participating in Saturday’s Orthodox Christmas Mass at the recently opened Nativity of Christ Cathedral in Egypt’s New Administrative Capital east of Cairo. “President el-Sisi’s words of tolerance and hope are appreciated by those who respect peace for all who live in Egypt and all who favor religious freedom there and across the globe. However, while he spoke words of tolerance, there are greater actions that he and the Egyptian government can take to protect the rights of Egyptian Christians seeking merely to raise their families, pursue their work, respect their leaders, and love their ancient nation. “For this reason, I introduced H.Res. 673 to urge continued progress in religious tolerance in this important country. There are many constructive steps that will enhance tolerance, provide better security for Christians, and improve education and opportunities for all Egyptians. My colleagues and I offer this resolution because of our long friendship and partnership with Egypt. We are partners in regional peace efforts, regional economic growth, and in our mutual desire to defeat militant terrorist groups and nations — and those who finance them.”
12.22.2017	Today, seven other members of the House of Representatives from Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Kansas joined Congressman French Hill (AR-02) in writing a letter to President Donald Trump asking him to include public and private stakeholders from waterway systems in his discussions and plans to improve our nation’s infrastructure. The seven Members of Congress stressed the importance of including the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System (MKARNS) as part of infrastructure improvements. In the letter to President Trump, Rep. Hill and seven other Members of Congress wrote: “Dear Mr. President: We write to express our support for the U.S. inland waterways, and request that you include our waterways systems as a part of your infrastructure principles when they are released next year. As you are keenly aware, a strong infrastructure is essential to a strong U.S. economy and key to encouraging job growth and promoting commerce. We applaud your continued messages on the needed improvements to U.S. infrastructure, and we believe our inland waterways also serve as important economic drivers and are vital parts of our nation’s infrastructure. For example, the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System (MKARNS) opened as an official inland waterway system in 1971. The MKARNS originates at the Tulsa, Oklahoma Port of Catoosa, and runs through Oklahoma and Arkansas to the Mississippi River. In 2016, the MKARNS had more than 11.5 million tons of commerce traverse the system, totaling more than $4.6 billion. From 2007-2016 more than 114.4 million tons of commerce, totaling more $42.6 billion, traversed the system. Further, local, state, and federal stakeholders have been working together for years to find a solution to increase the depth of the MKARNS from nine to twelve feet, which could significantly expand the capacity for commerce on the system. According to the American Waterways Operators, a 15 barge tow can carry the equivalent of more than 200 rail cars and more than 1,000 semi-trucks. Further, barges can move one ton of cargo 616 miles per gallon of fuel, compared to 478 miles by rail and 150 miles by truck per gallon of fuel. These three modes of transportation complement and rely on each other to move commerce through our country, and the use of our inland waterways as economic highways helps to decrease road congestion and air pollution, and reduces stress on our nation’s rails, roads, and highways. Unfortunately, the MKARNS is more than 45 years old, and its future use is at risk as there is currently more than a $100 million backlog in critical maintenance along the entire system. This includes locks, dams, and other important equipment that is deteriorating to dangerous levels. Critical maintenance is defined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as having a 50% chance of failure in the next 5 years. The MKARNS is vital to the economies of Oklahoma and Arkansas, as well as to farmers in Kansas, and a critical failure on the system could result in it being shut down for months. Even a temporary shutdown of the system could put future use of the system at risk, as businesses would no longer see the MKARNS as reliable and would likely find other means to transport their goods. Due to these concerns, we respectfully request that you include proposals to include our waterways infrastructure, specifically the MKARNS, in your infrastructure principles. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and please do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any questions or concerns. We look forward to working with you on improving our nation’s infrastructure. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress Ron Estes Member of Congress Tom Cole Member of Congress Markwayne Mullin Member of Congress Steve Womack Member of Congress Rick Crawford Member of Congress Bruce Westerman Member of Congress Frank Lucas Member of Congress”
12.22.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (R-AR), along with Congressman David Cicilline (D-RI), Dave Trott (R-MI), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) and Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa Chair Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), introduced a resolution expressing concern over attacks on Coptic Christians in Egypt. “I had the opportunity to travel to Egypt earlier this year,” said Rep. Hill. “While preparing for the trip, visiting the country, and returning home, I repeatedly heard about the plight of the Coptic Christians in Egypt. Although the Copts have been victims of numerous terrorist attacks by groups like ISIS, what is most disturbing to me is the amount of attacks against Copts carried out by their fellow Egyptians. “While I appreciate Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s actions to reform education and his support for religious tolerance, along with our U.S.-Egypt partnership to combat terrorism, I believe that it is critically important for the Egyptian government to end the marginalization of Copts in Egyptian society and make a legal example of any perpetrator who persecutes Egyptian Christians.” Background: House Resolution, H.Res. 673, acknowledges the importance of the United States-Egypt partnership in advancing our common interests, recognizes Egypt’s need for certain government reforms, and calls on the Egyptian government to end the culture of impunity and make examples by arresting, prosecuting, and convicting those responsible for attacks on Christians.
12.22.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after President Trump signed comprehensive tax reform legislation into law: “For the first time in over three decades, we delivered comprehensive tax reform to Arkansans and Americans to create new jobs, bring jobs back home, and let people keep more of their hard-earned dollars. This bill streamlines the filing process, doubles the child tax credit, doubles the standard deduction – all of which means that Arkansas families will be able to keep more of what they earn and decide how they will spend it to support the dreams of their children and grandchildren. I appreciate President Trump signing this historic measure into law today.”
12.22.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after the Senate passed his bill, H.R. 2611, the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act, and was sent to President Trump’s desk for signature: Congressman Hill said, “It’s an exciting day for Arkansas and Little Rock as my bill to preserve Arkansas’s civil rights history passed the Senate and is now onto the President’s desk for his signature. This could not come at a better time as we just celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Little Rock Nine’s brave actions integrating Little Rock Central High School. Together with the school, seven homes across the street from Central High will now stand as living monuments to the civil rights movement in Arkansas and the United States. “I want to thank my friend and colleague Senator Tom Cotton, for his leadership moving this bill through the Senate and my colleague, civil rights pioneer, and courageous leader, Congressman John Lewis, for co-authoring this bill with me in the House. Finally, this accomplishment would not have been possible without Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop and Ranking Member Raul Grijalva and Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Lisa Murkowski and Ranking Member Maria Cantwell. Each played a key role in seeing this important measure become a reality. I am proud of our efforts, and I look forward to this bill becoming law because Arkansas's history is America's history.” Senator Tom Cotton said: “To be able to see exactly how it looked when the Little Rock Nine walked their way into Central High School—and into history—will remind all of us and generations to come that we must continually stand guard against hatred and intolerance. I’m grateful to Congressman French Hill for working with me on this important bill and I’m glad it’s now passed both the House and Senate. I urge President Trump to sign it into law quickly.” Background: The Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act expands seven homes located near Little Rock Central High School to include them in the school’s national historic site designation, which consists of approximately 1.47 acres and is preserved by the National Park Service (NPS).
12.21.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) as the final winner of the Golden Fleece award of 2017 for wasteful spending and an institutional lack of accountability. In the letter to WMATA General Manager and CEO Paul Wiedefeld, Congressman Hill wrote: Dear Mr. Wiedefeld: I write today to inform you that your agency is this month’s recipient of my Golden Fleece Award. I am awarding this to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) for its wasteful spending, its failure to its customers, and its institutional lack of accountability. In the implementation of the SafeTrack Program, WMATA failed in its fiduciary responsibility to its customers and the federal government. As reported by the Washington Post on November 16, 2016, SafeTrack was expected to cost between $60 million and $80 million and to be completed in twelve months. In fact, according to the Federal Transit Authority’s May 2017 Monthly Oversight Report, SafeTrack took nearly three months longer than expected. and cost the agency nearly twice what was budgeted. Specifically, the overall costs were $154 million, $75.5 million of which was federal funding. This demonstrates a lack of good stewardship of taxpayer dollars. Additionally, even after all of the time and funds poured into SafeTrack, since the completion of SafeTrack, customers are still without the level of service they deserve. Despite WMATA’s Back 2 Good” campaign, in fact, service hours have not returned to pre-SafeTrack times and WMATA continues to shut down sections of the system for weeks at a time. This is not the level of customer service that would be expected of a Program costing as much taxpayer and dollars this. Finally, reports are now surfacing WMATA’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) was in a situation that prevented them from operating independently. Specifically, the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs wrote to you recently with their concerns that WMATA does not properly empower the OIG as an independent monitor of WMATA, and they cited reports that any WMATA employee with administrator rights can track the OIG’s work and investigations since they share the same computer network. A truly independent investigator is critically important to ensuring the safest and most reliable service to WMATA customers. It is also important to ensure that changes can be made to ensure the mistakes of the past are not repeated. We all watched with sorrow at recent tragedies and accidents including the 2015 smoke incident that sent more than 80 people to the hospital and resulted in one death and the 2009 crash that killed nine people. Then, we learned of the history of WMATA workers falsifying reports. This is unacceptable, and WMATA must do better. Our nation is currently over $19 trillion in debt, and it is important now more than ever that we carefully scrutinize our government programs to ensure that we are only funding essential programs and projects while eliminating frivolous and wasteful spending – and ensuring we have in place necessary accountability mechanisms – like independent Inspectors General. While WMATA continues to push for a dedicated funding source, it should focus on safety and improving its accountability to its customers. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue. Sincerely, French Hill Member of Congress
12.21.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement supporting a short-term measure to fund government operations at current funding levels until January 19, 2018: “Generally, I am not in favor of short-term spending bills, and, as I have said repeatedly, the ball is in the Senate’s court because the House has passed all twelve of our spending bills this year. With that said, it was important and responsible for the House to move today’s bill to ensure that we continue to fund priorities that Arkansans reply upon such as $2.85 billion for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and the Veterans Choice program. I look forward to coming back early January to fully exercise our Article 1 ‘power of the purse,’ and I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that taxpayers dollars are being spent wisely with oversight and accountability.” Background: Click here to read the House Amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1370 - Further Continuing Resolution.
12.21.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting additional funding for disaster relief: “Across the nation, we have neighbors in need not only in Arkansas but in Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Puerto Rico, and in the West where communities are still suffering and recovering from hurricanes and disastrous wildfires. The measure we passed today will provide $81 billion over ten years (about $11 billion in fiscal year 2018) in disaster relief for Arkansan and American families in need as they put their lives back together after destruction from these natural disasters. I am proud that we were able to include an important provision that makes seed cotton eligible for the farm safety net, which is vitally important to Arkansas’s cotton farmers. Also, this measure structures a good beginning for the critical challenges Puerto Rico faces as they rebuild their communities. I was proud to support this legislation today to aid those in need of recovery because America is strongest when neighbor supports neighbor.” Background: Click here to read H.R. 4667 - Making further supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, for disaster assistance for Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria, and calendar year 2017 wildfires, and for other purposes.
12.21.2017	This morning, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) and the U.S. Treasury Department announced an agreement that deprives taxpayers of the compensation they are entitled to under the current conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac – both Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs). This agreement modifies the prudent practice of the Obama Treasury Department that determines how taxpayers are compensated for the continued risk of their financial backing of the failed GSEs. Under the new proposals, the GSEs will be permitted to reserve $3 billion in capital. The Majority Whip of the House Financial Services Committee, French Hill (AR-02), issued the following statement: “I’m very troubled by this morning’s agreement between the FHFA and the Treasury Department. We, the taxpayers, through the Treasury Department, still back GSEs with a line of credit standing at over $250 billion and, while Fannie and Freddie remain in conservatorship, taxpayers continue to be on the hook. If policy makers want to end a decade of negligence and finally reform and modernize our broken and bankrupt secondary mortgage market entities, then I encourage FHFA Director Watt to meet with the House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling and Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo. Together, we can design a successful secondary market that facilitates housing markets and operates in a safe and sound manner for taxpayers.”
12.19.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting in support of the Conference Report to accompany H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed the House: “The House has achieved a major victory by passing tax reform legislation to help hardworking Arkansas families can keep more of their hard-earned dollars, to bring jobs back home, and to create new jobs. Reforming our broken tax code is about providing better opportunities for our children and grandchildren to succeed and live out their dreams. “This bill lowers individual taxes, meaning that hardworking Arkansans can keep more of what they have earned. For the majority of the over 50,000 families in Central Arkansas who claim the child tax credit, they will see this claim go from $1,000 to $2,000 per child. The bill also doubles the standard deduction, eliminating the requirement for some to itemize their taxes and protecting more of what Arkansans earn each year. Right now, almost seven out of ten households in our area take the standard deduction. Even more Arkansas families will now be helped with a simpler tax filing system. “For the job creators in the Second District, this bill lowers the corporate rate to 21 percent. This significant reduction from today’s marginal rate of 35 percent will help Central Arkansas’s job creators grow and expand their businesses. “Families deserve a simple and fair tax system – one that promotes new and better paying jobs. I am excited that, with this bill, the House is delivering on our promise to Arkansans and Americans with a tax code that provides the opportunity and relief they deserve.”
12.19.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting H.R. 3312, the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act of 2017: “I am pleased to support this measure to remove one more Dodd-Frank creation that has penalized and burdened our banks through a completely arbitrary asset threshold of $50 billion to designate firms as ‘systemically important financial institutions.’ This provision was created by plucking a number out of thin air – without regard to the actual business of the institution – and in doing so, it gave them a government stamp of ‘too big to fail.’ I thank my good friend, Chairman Blaine Luetkemeyer, designing this flawed Dodd-Frank requirement and I look forward to the Senate considering this thoughtful approach to reform.” Click HERE to watch Rep. Hill’s speech in support of H.R. 3312 Background: H.R. 3312 will do the following: Removes arbitrary thresholds posed by the Dodd-Frank Act to create more flexible and efficient regulation of financial institutions. Removes the $50 billion asset threshold used to automatically designate certain financial institutions as SIFIs. Replaces the arbitrary asset site with enhanced regulatory standards for these financial institutions based upon the specific nature and risk of their activities rather than an arbitrary asset threshold. Authorizes the Financial Stability Oversight Council to subject bank holding companies to enhanced supervision and prudential standards by the Federal Reserve if the institution has been identified as a global systemically important bank (G-SIB). Substitutes G-SIB status in place of the current monetary threshold as the determinant for the Federal Reserve’s heightened authority over certain bank holding company actions.
12.18.2017	Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee Chairwoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27), Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee Ranking Member Ted Deutch (FL-22), Congressman David N. Cicilline (RI-01), and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) led 71 of their House colleagues in asking Vice President Mike Pence to hold the Egyptian government accountable for systemic human rights violations during a scheduled meeting in Cairo this week. “For decades American foreign policy has been based on promotion of our values of freedom, equality, and right to democratic representation. We have enjoyed a long and fruitful partnership with the government and people of Egypt and we very much support this continued relationship,” they wrote in a letter signed by 71 Republican and Democratic colleagues, including House Middle East and North Africa Subcommittee Chairman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). “However, the close U.S-Egypt relationship is at risk as long as the Government of Egypt engages in widespread violations of internationally recognized civil and human rights. We respectfully ask that you do everything you can to ensure this message is delivered forcefully and regularly to the Egyptian government at all levels, particularly during your visit this month.” Vice President Pence is visiting Cairo this week to meet with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. The Egyptian government has engaged in mass detentions, attacks on journalists, and efforts to restrict civil society. The full text of the letter sent to Vice President Pence is embedded below. A PDF version of the signed letter can be downloaded by clicking here. ---------------------------------------------------------- The Honorable Mike Pence Vice President Eisenhower Executive Office Building Washington, DC 20501 December 18, 2017 Dear Mr. Vice President: We write to you ahead of your upcoming visit to Egypt to raise concerns about recent actions taken by the Egyptian government that constitute a widespread crackdown against civil and human rights. Egypt and the United States have had a long and enduring partnership, predicated on strong military and counter-terrorism cooperation, shared security goals, and a shared vision for peace in the region. We value the benefits that the U.S-Egypt partnership has brought to both of our countries over the past four decades. In particular, our mutual interest in deterring and combatting the spread of terrorism is only underscored by the horrific attack perpetrated on the al-Rawda mosque in Sinai which killed over 300 worshippers. So while we urge you to extend our condolences and offer our continued support to Egypt’s fight against terrorism we also urge you to raise our concerns over Egypt’s domestic civil and political repression. In recent years, independent civil society groups have been the target of a concerted government effort to silence their voices and limit their ability to operate. Minority groups, including religious minorities and the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) community have been the targets of discrimination and violence. Independent media organizations have been shuttered, and dozens of journalists, bloggers, and citizens have been jailed for their speech. The Egyptian government has been engaged in a wide-ranging effort to crack down against public discourse, civil society activity, and independent media using a variety of methods and tools, including the use of legislation ostensibly designed to promote public safety or regulation, but practically used to stifle dissent. In particular, the NGO law ratified by President al-Sisi in May 2017 threatens to devastate the ability of independent organizations to operate within Egypt and calls into question the Egyptian Government’s own commitments to freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. The government routinely pressures journalists and private citizens to suppress criticism of the government, and has used criminal prosecution, gag orders, arbitrary detention, and serious physical abuse in police custody to target free speech. The criminalization of legitimate NGO activity complicates the effectiveness of the foreign assistance package that the United States provides to Egypt annually. The usage of these funds, and their compliance with U.S. law under the Brownback Amendment, relies on the ability of implementing partners on the ground to function freely. Recently, the Egyptian government has participated in the disturbing global trend of government authorities targeting directly, as well as fostering an environment of discrimination and violence against, members of the LGBT community. The most recent wave of anti-LGBT persecution has been ongoing since September, when authorities in Cairo arrested seven people who had been photographed at a concert raising a rainbow flag. These arrests marked the beginning of a widespread crackdown on LGBT Egyptians with reports of 65 people being arrested. Most have been charged with sentences ranging from 6 months to 12 years in prison. Reports that the Egyptian Parliament will consider legislation that would criminalize same sex relations are further cause for concern. While the Egyptian government has demonstrated an interest in achieving greater parity for Coptic Christians, Copts continue to be the frequent target of systemic discrimination as well as violence carried out by non-state actors, including fellow Egyptians. Despite statements of support, the government has not taken sufficient steps to protect Copts from violence and ensure equal treatment under the law. Finally, the Egyptian government has repeatedly stated its intent to find a satisfactory resolution in the case against 43 NGO workers, including 19 Americans, who were unjustly convicted under the Morsi government in 2013. This issue has been an irritant in U.S.-Egyptian relations for too long and has set a troubling precedent with regard to Egypt’s treatment of democracy, human rights, and governance efforts, including programs funded by U.S. tax dollars. Given your stated commitment to the protection of free speech and human rights, we ask that you raise these issues during your meetings this month with the highest levels of Egyptian leadership. Specifically, we respectfully ask that you raise with your counterparts the following: 1. The case against the 43 NGO workers must be resolved as soon as possible and without a retrial, specifically by Egypt’s court of cassation swiftly allowing an appeal in the case to be heard, the court issuing a ruling, and then President Sisi pardoning every individual (not just the Americans) convicted in the case. 2. The repressive NGO law should be repealed and independent civil society organizations should be allowed to operate, free from government interference. 3. The arrest, harassment, and incitement against LGBT individuals inside Egypt must cease immediately, the individuals in detention must be released, and the government should oppose any laws that seek to criminalize the speech or activities of the LGBT community. 4. The Government of Egypt should take additional steps to end the culture of impunity for attacks on Coptic Christians and continue to undertake the arrest, prosecution, and conviction of individuals who carry out attacks on Copts and other Christians in Egypt. 5. The government must stop impinging on freedom of speech and release journalists, bloggers, and citizens who have been arrested on political charges. 6. The government should take steps to release any American citizens or Legal Permanent Residents who have been arbitrarily detained and comply with international human rights standards for detention of all prisoners. For decades American foreign policy has been based on promotion of our values of freedom, equality, and right to democratic representation. We have enjoyed a long and fruitful partnership with the government and people of Egypt and we very much support this continued relationship. However, the close U.S-Egypt relationship is at risk as long as the Government of Egypt engages in widespread violations of internationally recognized civil and human rights. We respectfully ask that you do everything you can to ensure this message is delivered forcefully and regularly to the Egyptian government at all levels, particularly during your visit this month. Thank you for your attention. Sincerely,
12.14.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting two pieces of legislation to provide stronger oversight over Iran’s financial transactions in an effort to stop Iran’s sponsorship of terrorism: “I am pleased that, as a member of the House Financial Services Committee, I have the opportunity work on legislation that has a direct effect on the safety and protection of Arkansas and American families. This rogue regime poses one of the greatest threats to our nation and allies. These two bills help stop the flow of funds to Iran - known as the foremost sponsor of terrorism and a habitual money launderer. We will continue to assess how we can change laws to block money used to finance terrorism. Through the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act, we also expand awareness of the corruption of the Iranian Mullahs and Military.” Click here to watch Rep. Hill’s floor speech in support of H.R. 4324. Background: The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act, H.R. 1638, requires the Secretary of the Department of Treasury to publically maintain a list estimating the “funds and assets” of senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and how those assets are employed. The Strengthening Oversight of Iran’s Access to Finance Act, H.R. 4324, requires the Treasury Secretary to submit a report to Congress regarding financial transactions authorized in connection with commercial passenger aircrafts sales to Iran.
12.13.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for wasteful spending on an idle data warehouse. OPM has spent over $10 million to build a data warehouse for health claims data from beneficiaries of the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHB), data that OPM does not have, according to a recent Politico article. “For an agency that reveals the misuse of tax dollars within the federal government, OPM missed their own mark by wasting millions of taxpayer dollars on a warehouse to store data they don’t have,” said Rep. Hill. “I question whether OPM should even have access to FEHB beneficiary data after Chinese hackers breached their security system in 2015 and accessed 21.5 million OPM files. I sent a letter to Acting Director of OPM Kathleen McGettigan to raise these concerns with her.” To view the letter sent to Acting Director of OPM Kathleen McGettigan, click here.
12.12.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after President Trump signed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law: “I appreciate President Trump signing into law a bill that continues our support for Arkansans - and their families - serving in our nation’s military. This is the fifty-fourth consecutive year that Congress has worked in a bipartisan fashion to ensure funding for vital functions of our armed forces. This includes more than $200 million for modernization for the C-130 Hercules fleet, which is the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard airmen and airwomen at Little Rock Air Force Base. It also gives our military personnel a much-deserved 2.4 percent pay increase. Our military is the most effective military in the world, and our brave men and women in uniform deserve the funding, tools, and support to successfully complete their strategic missions around the globe.”
12.11.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 4560, the GSE Jumpstart Reauthorization Act of 2017. This legislation would extend an existing prohibition while preventing the U.S. Treasury Department from selling its Government-Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) preferred shares. It also would require the GSEs to pay dividends to the Treasury Department prior to making payments to the Housing Trust Fund for that year. “By allowing the GSEs to retain earnings is beside the point,” said. Rep. Hill. “The U.S. Treasury still backs the GSEs with a line of credit standing at over $250 billion and, while Fannie and Freddie remain in conservatorship, the taxpayers continue to be on the hook. Rather than increasing taxpayer exposure by withholding money, it is time to mandate that the GSEs pay their bills to taxpayers before growing this Trust Fund.” Background Information: H.R. 4560, introduced December 6, 2017, would do the following: Extends the S. 1217, GSE Jumpstart language in the 2015 Omnibus for one year through December 1, 2019. This provision prevents Treasury from selling its GSE Senior Preferred shares and its warrant for 79.9 percent of the GSEs’ common shares. Expands the current provision in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA) that states the Federal Housing Finance Authority “shall temporarily suspend” GSE payments to the Housing Trust Fund if it thinks those payments would weaken their finances. The bill adds a second provision to HERA, which says that if the GSEs fail to pay their any of their dividends to Treasury in a year then FHFA must prohibit payments to the Housing Trust Fund for that entire fiscal year.
12.07.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting to fund the federal government through December 22, 2017: “We’ve already done our job in the House by passing all twelve government funding bills this year, but the Senate hasn’t done their job by passing any of them. In addition to these twelve funding bills, the House has also successfully passed reforms to the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and reauthorized the critically important funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). “I have said it many times and I will say it again, Continuing Resolutions are no way to govern. They particularly punish our men and women in uniform who are actively engaged around the world protecting America’s interests. We must ensure our military, federal agencies, and other key government entities have the resources they need to fulfill their duties and serve hardworking Arkansans and Americans.” Background: Click here for more information on the Continuing Appropriations Act, H.J.Res.123.
12.06.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting for legislation that upholds the Second Amendment: “The right to bear arms is firmly established by our Constitution, and that right should extend across state lines. After being robbed twice and fearing for her and her children’s safety, Shaneen Allen obtained her concealed carry permit in Pennsylvania and legally purchased a firearm. When she traveled from Pennsylvania to New Jersey, she was stopped by a State Trooper and told him she had a firearm on her person and a concealed carry permit. Shaneen was then arrested on lawful weapons charges and resided in jail for 48 days. New Jersey Governor Chris Christie pardoned her two years later. “From day one, I strongly supported this common sense legislation that allows law-abiding citizens like Shaneen with concealed carry permits to travel from state to state with their legally-obtained firearms. This bill clarifies the disarray of concealed carry reciprocity agreements between states, and it does not alter or change any local laws. Every person who wants to buy a firearm in America would still have to go through a thorough federal background check. We’ve taken a great step in the House today to preserve Arkansans’ and Americans’ right to bear arms. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill, and I am committed to upholding our Second Amendment rights.” To view myth vs. fact, click HERE. Background: The Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, H.R. 38, does the following: Grants reciprocity to U.S. law-abiding citizens with concealed carry permits who are in other states that also issue concealed carry permits. A qualified individual must: (1) be eligible to possess, transport, or receive a firearm under federal law; (2) carry a valid photo identification document; and (3) carry a valid concealed carry permit issued by, or be eligible to carry a concealed firearm in, his or her state of residence. Maintains states’ rights to determine permitting requirements and allows citizens who meet the qualifications for concealed carry in their home states to carry in any state they may be travelling in as long as they follow the local firearm laws, including those governing concealed carry permits. Contains strong provisions to ensure states and federal agencies upload records that are already required to be included in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) and would have ensured that the Virginia Tech, Charleston church, and Sutherland Springs shooters would have been flagged in the NICS system and prevented their firearm purchases.
12.01.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting bipartisan legislation to help provide Americans with affordable housing options: “Hardworking Arkansans, especially those in our rural communities, depend on manufactured homes as an affordable housing option. With only a handful of lenders making loans for manufactured home, it is already difficult for homebuyers to get the financing they need without needless obstacles. The days of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s prescriptive, one-size fits all regulation standing the way of affordable home ownership are numbered thanks to the bill we passed today, which I was proud to support. “I appreciate Rep. Andy Barr’s (R-KY) thoughtful work on this measure to help hardworking Arkansans and Americans who are attempting to obtain the dream of homeownership.” Click HERE to view Rep. Hill’s floor speech in support of H.R. 1699. Background: The Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act, H.R. 1699, helps protect consumers’ ability to buy a manufactured home. It clarifies that a manufactured home salesperson is not originating a loan when helping a consumer apply for a mortgage or prepare loan information, unless they are compensated by a creditor, lender, or mortgage broker.
11.29.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after voting for and cosponsoring legislation to require Members of Congress and staff to complete sexual harassment training each session of each Congress: “Sexual harassment in the workplace is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. Before this legislation was introduced, my office staff and I had completed the House’s sexual harassment training. I expect more entities - businesses, institutions, and offices – to follow suit and put in strong accountability measures to make workplaces free from inappropriate behavior. Today, the House declared that we are taking sexual harassment seriously and that there is no place for misconduct in Congress. I look forward to additional recommendations on what other steps can be taken by House Administration.”
11.16.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed the House: “We achieved a major victory today by passing comprehensive tax reform in the House to help create new jobs, bring jobs back home, and let Americans keep more of their hard-earned money. Washington’s tax system has been broken for far too long and the system has been punishing Arkansans and Americans, keeping us from getting ahead and tapping into our full potential. “Today’s historic vote was about helping Arkansans have better opportunities to succeed and live out their dreams. Under this legislation, hardworking Arkansas families will be able to keep an additional $2,020 of their income and provide Arkansans with 8,277 new full-time jobs according to the Tax Foundation. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce found that in Arkansas’s Second District 52,530 taxpayers claim the child tax credit, which will increase from $1,000 to $1,600 per child. For our entrepreneurs and small business owners, this bill creates small business tax rates of no more than 25 percent - the lowest tax rate on small businesses since World War II. This is a significant reduction from today’s rates, which will help our Central Arkansas job creators grow and expand their businesses. And, for the over 6,000 taxpayers in my district who are negatively impacted by the Alternative Minimum Tax, this bill eliminates it. “In addition, by lowering our corporate tax rates, more money will be flowing into our country with businesses returning home – creating even more jobs in our state and country. “Families deserve a simple and fair tax system – one that promotes new and better paying jobs. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to give hardworking Arkansans and Americans hope and relief with a tax code that they deserve.”
11.15.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Richard Cordray announced his plans to resign: “The CFPB has been arguably the least accountable independent government agency. I’m pleased to hear that Director Cordray will be stepping down. We need new leadership that brings accountability to this rogue agency and respects our laws while implementing much-needed reforms.”
11.15.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and other members of the Financial Services Committee advanced 23 bills for future House consideration. Among the measures advanced included H.R. 3978, the TRID Improvement Act and H.R. 4278, the Independence from Credit Policy Act, introduced by Congressman Hill, the Committee’s Majority Whip. Rep. Hill’s Statement on H.R. 3978, the TRID Improvement Act: “Consumers deserve to know the costs of their title insurance premiums when they purchase a home. As TRID has become a massive, complex rule, it is hindering financial institutions’ ability to share accurate information to consumers during the mortgage closing process. This legislation seeks to correct this error by ensuring that consumers know the exact cost of their title insurance – not the number reported as one price on a lending estimate and another price on a closing document. I am proud to work with my colleague, Representative Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), to take the first step in undoing this compliance nightmare.” Rep. Hill’s Statement on H.R. 4278, the Independence from Credit Policy Act: “After a period of unprecedented monetary expansion, including the extraordinary quantitative easing measures and emergency lending programs, it’s time for the Federal Reserve to return its balance sheet to a normal size as a percent of our economy and normal composition of gold, U.S. Treasury securities, other sovereign debt and central bank obligations. H.R. 4278 is a constructive reform for the Federal Reserve by establishing a bright line between the independent role of the central bank and separate, equally important role of credit policy of the United States as established by the Congress and carried out by the Secretary of the Treasury.” Background H.R. 3978, the TRID Improvement Act In October 2015, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) implemented the Know Before You Owe (KBYO) or TRID mortgage disclosure rule. This rule integrated a series of mortgage forms under the Truth-In-Lending and Real Estate Settlement Statutes and was designed to assist consumers with better understanding the home closing process. Sadly it has had the opposite effect. In the majority of states, consumers are not receiving an accurate disclosure of their title insurance premiums and are burdened by closing delays and inaccurate information. In these states, the CFPB does not allow the calculation of a discounted rate known as “simultaneous issue,” which is a rate title insurance companies provide to consumers when they purchase a lenders and owners title insurance policy simultaneously. This rate provides consumers with an effective discount on their owners title insurance policy in order to protect their property rights for as long as they own their home. The CFPB is unwilling to fix this problem on its own, resulting in the need for Congress to act. H.R. 4278, the Independence from Credit Policy Act This bill would require a Federal Reserve-Treasury asset swap, where non-Treasury assets transfer from the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet to the Treasury and the Federal Reserve receives an equally valued portfolio of Treasuries in return. In addition, this bill restricts subsequent open market asset purchases to only direct obligations of the United States.
11.14.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House passed the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report by a vote of 356-70: “This marks the 54th consecutive year that the House and Senate have come together to fund our defense. Our armed forces are the most effective in the world, and our brave men and women in uniform deserve the funding, tools, and support they need to successfully complete their strategic missions around the globe. I was proud to support authorizing our nation’s critical defense funding today that boosts our military’s readiness, combats global terrorism, and gives military personnel a much-deserved 2.4 percent pay increase. “This legislation also authorizes more than $120 million to increase modernization of the C-130 Hercules fleet, which is the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard at Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB). LRAFB is the nation’s tactical airlift ‘Center of Excellence,’ and this essential funding will guarantee these planes remain an essential part of our national security.” Background: To read more about the NDAA Conference Report, click here.
11.14.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting legislation to reauthorize and reform the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP): “The current flood program is unsustainable and broken. This legislation makes significant structural reforms that provide consumers with more choice and more information about flood risks. Through mitigation, curtailing repetitive losses, and the use of reinsurance, these changes will place the existing program on sounder footing. By passing this legislation today, it will help provide much-needed reforms to the program, paving the way for responsible oversight and transition to market-based solutions. “I thank Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Chairman for the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance Sean Duffy (R-WI) for their leadership on this legislation, and for my colleagues who worked hard to ensure the passage of this common sense bill in committee.” Background: The 21st Century Flood Reform Act, H.R. 2874, reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) for five years, introduces private market competition, and provides programmatic reforms to help policyholders.
11.13.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after Senate Banking Chairman Mike Crapo (R-ID) released the summary of a bipartisan proposal to reform banking regulations: “I congratulate Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, my colleague from Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton, and a strong bipartisan group of senators who worked on the financial regulatory proposal announced today. “These proposed bipartisan regulatory improvements will contribute to economic growth and enhance opportunities for our community financial institutions to help their Main Street businesses grow, expand, and create jobs. “I look forward to following the progress of this legislation and working with Senate colleagues on reforms that we can send to the President’s desk.”
11.07.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after cosponsoring and voting in favor of the Save Local Business Act: “More jobs, more opportunities for entrepreneurs, and a better chance for American businesses to thrive, grow, and create jobs is what brings success to Americans across the country. The House rolled back an Obama-era regulation that blocked entrepreneurs’ ability to launch franchise businesses and made it harder for contractors to work with small business owners. Today, we helped restore a commonsense definition to employers that provides more certainty and stability for workers and employers all over the country and helps promote good jobs for hardworking Americans.” Background: The Save Local Business Act, H.R. 3441, amends the National Labor Relations Act and the Fair Labor Standards Act to restore the commonsense definition of what it means to be an employer. The legislation clarifies that two or more employers must have “actual, direct, and immediate” control over employees to be considered joint employers.
11.03.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and fund Community Health Centers (CHC): “Communities across Arkansas and America depend on programs that help provide access to vital, high-quality health care for our children, and I was pleased to support today’s measure that does so in a fiscally responsible way. This legislation is paid for while at the same time helps to modernize and strengthen Medicaid, lowers health care premiums, redirects dollars to proven public health programs, and ensures that those most vulnerable and most in need of care get the help they need. I’m pleased that we have worked in a bipartisan manner in the House to pass this bill that helps provide our communities with access to reliable health care services.” Background: The CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act, H.R. 3922, helps fund the state Children’s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP) and other public health priorities, like extensions for funding Community Health Centers.
11.03.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) announced that David Carnahan will be joining as a District Representative for Military & Veterans Affairs – becoming a permanent staff member. Since October 2015, Carnahan served as a Military Fellow in Rep. Hill’s office through the U.S. House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program. After Graduating from Russellville High School in Russellville, Arkansas, Carnahan joined the Marine Corps as an Infantryman. During his career in the Marines, he achieved the rank of Lance Corporal. Currently, Carnahan is a Staff Sergeant in the Arkansas Army National Guard. David’s fellowship with the House Wounded Warrior Program began in November 2015. He is a graduate of the University of Arkansas in Little Rock. “David has been on the front lines of battle and understands the challenges that Central Arkansas’s brave warriors face,” said Rep. Hill. “He brought to the position experience helping veterans with the VA. Over the past two years, David has faithfully served our veterans as a Military Fellow in my office, and I’m excited to have him on board as a permanent member of the team. David will continue his work in helping veterans get the care and benefits they deserve.” “David has been an integral member of the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program,” said Sol Jennings, Program Manager for the Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program. “His work ethic, professionalism, and commitment to other veterans, constituents, and his Congressman have been noteworthy. As a full-time member of Congressman French Hill’s staff, he will undoubtedly continue to be a force multiplier. We wish him and his family the best as he makes this transition.”
11.02.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after House Republicans released their tax reform bill: “Families deserve a simple and fair tax system – one that promotes new and better paying jobs for Arkansans and Americans. We’re one step closer to reforming our broken tax code, and I appreciate Chairman Brady’s leadership on this tax reform legislation that is scheduled to go through the Ways and Means Committee markup next week. I look forward to working with my colleagues on this critically needed measure because we must make good on our promise to hardworking American people to deliver a tax system that works for all.”
11.01.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Alex Hoyle has joined his staff in the capacity of Executive Assistant. Hoyle, originally from Mulberry, Arkansas, graduated from the University of Central Arkansas (Conway, Arkansas) with a B.B.A. in Accounting, and recently completed a M.A. in Accountancy at George Washington University’s School of Business. Hoyle’s previous professional experience includes working at US Compounding in Conway, Arkansas, interning for Congressman Don Bacon (R-NE), and serving on the staff of the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington, D.C. as a Staff Accountant. “Hoyle brings to our seasoned team enthusiasm, experience, and organizational skills that will help him to flourish in his new role,” said Rep. Hill. “I’m confident he will excel and provide exceptional service to the great people of Central Arkansas.”
11.01.2017	Anna Wilbourn, Executive Assistant for Congressman French Hill (R-AR), has been promoted to Legislative Correspondent / Legislative Assistant. Born and raised in Little Rock, Wilbourn graduated from Episcopal Collegiate School and received a B.S. in Biology of Global Health at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. Wilbourn’s professional experience includes interning for Senator John Boozman (R-AR) and Congressman French Hill. She joined Rep. Hill’s office as a permanent member of the staff in January 2016. “I am proud of Anna’s hard work over the past two years, which has led to her promotion,” Rep. Hill said. “She brings to the team knowledge of Central Arkansas as well as subject matter expertise in health which will benefit my constituents. I am confident that Anna will excel in her new role.”
10.31.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after House Financial Services Committee Chairman Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) announced he will retire at the end of his current term: “I congratulate my colleague and, more importantly, my friend for his more than 15 years of public service. Since joining the House in 2015, I have had the pleasure of working under Chairman Hensarling’s exceptional leadership of the Financial Services Committee and continue to admire his dedication to create an environment where Main Street businesses can grow and prosper. I look forward to working with him over the coming months. Martha and I send our best wishes to him and Melissa as they and their family prepare to embark on a new chapter.”
10.26.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) and Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) have called upon Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee Chairman Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Ranking Member Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to assist in lifting the hold placed on their bill that would expand the historic site at Little Rock Central High School, the site of integration by the Little Rock Nine 60 years ago. Their bill, the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act, H.R. 2611, would extend the historic site’s boundaries to include seven homes along South Park Street, preserving the streetscape that provided the backdrop to this significant event in Arkansas history. Doing so would allow visitors to the site to site to picture the tranquil street and architecturally significant façade as it looked in 1957. H.R. 2611 passed the House unanimously by a vote of 390-0 on September 12, 2017, and it is languishing in the U.S. Senate. “I’m calling on the leadership of Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee to lift the hold on our bill and allow it to pass the Senate and go to the President’s desk for signature,” said Rep. Hill. “Preserving the streetscape on South Park Street as close to what it was in 1957 will serve as a historic reminder for all modern-day travelers retracing the steps of the civil rights movement. It’s vitally important that together with the high school, these historical homes are able to stand as living monuments to the civil rights movement in Arkansas and the United States.” Additional Information: H.R. 2611 was placed on the Senate “Hotline” calendar after passing in the U.S. House, but it has been delayed due to a hold being placed on the bill. Without the hold, it would be able to pass the Senate by unanimous consent to be sent to the President for signature. Letter:
10.26.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the FY2018 Budget Resolution: “By passing this non-binding budget resolution today, we are paving the way for comprehensive tax reform, moving ahead through the process of budget reconciliation. This is a pivotal step in accomplishing our goal of passing tax reform by the end of the year. While the House passed a budget resolution that had many superior features on spending control and long-term reforms in federal mandatory spending, passing the Senate version facilitates a more expeditious consideration of badly needed tax reform for our families and businesses.” Additional Information: To read the House’s Tax Reform Framework, click here.
10.26.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting a series of four bills related to countering Iran’s missile program and the Foreign Terrorist Organization known as Hizballah: “In our terrorism and illicit finance subcommittee, we continue to hear testimony that Iran continues to finance their nuclear and conventional weapons programs. We know that the Iran Nuclear Deal did nothing to make Iran our friend and that their nefarious activities and support for terrorism have only increased. In fact, Iran is at work disrupting Persian Gulf military and Red Sea transit and building a ‘land bridge’ of supply and terror across Iraq to Syria linking up with Hizballah units in Germany. This is why I supported the House’s additional steps to counter Iran’s missile and conventional weapons programs. “One of the greatest recipients of financial support from Iran is the known terrorist organization Hizballah. This terrorism group is responsible for numerous rocket and conventional attacks on Israel and is directly involved in the fighting in Syria. They also were responsible for the 1983 Marine Corps barracks bombing in Beirut, Lebanon, which killed 241 U.S. service personnel. I will continue to support measures that prevent Iran, Hizballah, and any other bad actors from harming the United States and our allies.” Background For more information on the series of four bills that the House passed today, please click on the links below. 1) H.R. 1698 - Iran Ballistic Missiles and International Sanctions Enforcement Act. 2) H.Res. 359 - Urging the European Union to designate Hizballah in its entirety as a terrorist organization and increase pressure on it and its members. 3) H.R. 3342 - Sanctioning Hizballah’s Illicit Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act. 4) H.R. 3329 - Hizballah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act.
10.25.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Department of Defense (DoD) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for having never conducted a financial audit. An annual financial audit by each federal agency, including DoD, is required by the Chief Financial Officer’s Act of 1990. Further, DoD financial management has been on the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) “High Risk List” since 1995, and there have been many reports on financial mismanagement and cost overruns at the DoD. "As a former banker and businessman, it is concerning to me that our largest federally funded agency has never conducted a financial audit,” said Rep. Hill. “The DoD represents more than 50 percent of the nation’s discretionary budget. I believe conducting its first financial audit will help the DoD identify savings and efficiencies, as well as identify mismanaged funds that can be redirected and put to better use for our men and women and uniform.” To view the letter sent to the Secretary of Defense, click here.
10.25.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after voting in support of legislation that passed out of the House Financial Services Committee and that would impose stronger sanctions on North Korea: “We took action in the House Financial Services Committee to impose stronger sanctions on North Korea. We passed legislation out of the committee with a strong bipartisan vote that would incentivize stricter sanction enforcement by foreign countries and require regular reports on sanction implementation from the Department of the Treasury. The legislation also would impose economic restrictions on a number of North Korean and Chinese banks as well as trading corporations and individuals associated with those entities. It also would give the International Monetary Fund the ability to use its budget to assist member states with improving their capacity to prevent money laundering and terrorism finance. “This legislation comes at an important time as the United States and the international community are taking significant actions against the North Korean regime and their many threats. This legislation adds to the actions the Administration and Congress have already taken to reign in this rogue nation.” Click HERE to listen to my remarks on this legislation. Background: The Otto Warmbier Nuclear Sanctions Act, H.R. 3898, incurs strict penalties on any individual that facilitates transfers to North Korea through U.S. accounts or any foreign account that may touch the U.S. financial system.
10.20.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after working with colleagues to investigate the recent data breach at Equifax: “My family has had our private, personally identifiable information illegally accessed from both government and private company databases due to fundamental data security failures. Over the past few months, my colleagues and I have been working in the House Financial Services Committee to find the underlying cause of the recent Equifax breach and to learn from it to change key policy and safeguards. Equifax announced the social security numbers and other highly sensitive information of 143 million U.S. consumers – including 1.2 million or 40 percent of Arkansans. “Equifax officials had much to answer in our recent Financial Services Committee hearings, and we continue to hold them accountable for this lapse in cybersecurity. When millions of Americans have their personal, sensitive information stolen, it’s Congress’ job to act and ensure that safeguards are in place to prevent this kind of breach from ever happening again.” Click HERE to watch me question now former Equifax CEO Richard Smith.
10.13.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after President Trump announced to decertify the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “The Iran Nuclear Deal was a bad deal for the American people that puts our safety and security at risk, especially our nation’s allies such as Israel. This deal has major flaws, including sunset provisions that should have never been included, zero monitoring of Iranian military sites, and continued Iranian research on advanced centrifuges. Without decertification, this deal allows Iran to head in the same direction as North Korea, and it is now up to Congress to decide if new sanctions against Iran’s nuclear program are warranted. I support the President’s decision to decertify the Iran Nuclear Deal and I will continue to support policies that target Iran’s terrorist financing, its missile technology, its violations of human rights, and its nuclear program.” Additional Information: The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 was signed into law by President Obama in 2015 and requires the President to submit a report to Congress every 90 days on whether Iran is fully implementing and abiding by the JCPOA.
10.13.2017	After voting against the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement and sent the following letters to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Mick Mulvaney and Republican Leadership: "I firmly believe that as Americans we have an obligation to extend aid to our neighbors in need, but I do not believe this was the right way or the compassionate way to do it. Continuing the trend of adding massive amounts onto our national debt and doing nothing to change programs that are in dire need of reforms hurts hardworking Americans both today and tomorrow who will have to pay for this unfunded package. Forgiving $16 billion of NFIP’s debt with no reforms is just business-as-usual for Washington. We once again are not taking seriously our national debt and putting it on the shoulders of future generations. “Following this vote, I wrote Director Mulvaney and Republican Leadership raising the concerns I have with the Puerto Rico short-term recovery package and called for a Joint Task Force. I also highlighted my disappointment with the process and policy provisions of the supplemental appropriations. We must find better, creative solutions to help those in need that don’t come at a harmful cost to hardworking Americans. Emergency spending for natural disasters must be limited to emergency spending.” Letters: Click here to view the letter sent to OMB Director Mulvaney. Click here to view the letter sent to Speaker Ryan.
10.12.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting a bill to strengthen accountability and transparency in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and other federal agencies: “Central Arkansas is home to many of our nation’s brave veterans – and like all veterans, they have earned the right to have a VA that is free of waste, fraud, and abuse and that allows staff to speak up without fear if they see something that is wrong. I am proud of the House’s vote today in honor of Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick, who took his own life after being fired for questioning excessive prescription practices at a VA facility in Wisconsin. This continues the House’s effort to insist on greater accountability across the executive branch. I am glad that those who share Dr. Kirkpatrick’s passion for helping our veterans will be free from fear of reprisal.” Background: The Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act, S. 585, provides additional protections to federal employees who are retaliated against for disclosing waste, fraud, and abuse. The legislation increases awareness of federal whistleblower protections, increases accountability at government agencies, and requires discipline for supervisors who retaliate against whistleblowers.
10.05.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced the TRID (TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure) Improvement Act of 2017, which modifies requirements related to mortgage disclosures and offers clarification to consumers and regulatory relief to financial institutions. Rep. Hill issued the following statement: “Consumers deserve to know the costs of their title insurance premiums when they purchase a home. As TRID has become a massive, complex rule, it is hindering financial institutions’ ability to share accurate information to consumers during the mortgage closing process. This legislation seeks to correct this error by ensuring that consumers know the exact cost of their title insurance – not the number reported as one price on a lending estimate and another price on a closing document. I am proud to work with my colleague, Representative Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), to take the first step in undoing this compliance nightmare.” Background Information: In October 2015, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) implemented the Know Before You Owe (KBYO) or TRID mortgage disclosure rule. This rule integrated a series of mortgage forms and was designed to assist consumers with better understanding the home closing process, but it has had the opposite effect. In the majority of states, consumers are not receiving an accurate disclosure of their title insurance premiums. In these states, the CFPB does not allow the calculation of a discounted rate known as “simultaneous issue,” which is a rate title insurance companies provide to consumers when they purchase a lenders and owners title insurance policy simultaneously. This rate provides consumers with an effective discount on their owners title insurance policy in order to protect their property rights for as long as they own their home. The CFPB is unwilling to fix this problem on its own, calling on Congress to act.
10.05.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the House Concurrent Budget Resolution: “By passing the House Budget today, this is the first step in paving the way for comprehensive tax reform. The House has already done our job passing all twelve funding bills for fiscal year 2018, and we’re making progress to responsibly govern and balance our budget within 10 years. This budget achieves $6.5 trillion in deficit reduction and sets our overall discretionary spending at $1.132 trillion. “I am pleased to see that House Budget Committee Chairwoman Diane Black (R-TN) addressed the true drivers of our national debt, such as mandatory spending, in this budget resolution. By cutting down on wasteful government spending and reforming government programs, we can better spur on economic growth for Arkansans and Americans, which will help put our nation on a healthy, sustainable path forward.” Background: To read the House Concurrent Budget Resolution, H.Con.Res.71, click HERE
10.03.2017	Congressman Hill (R-AR) announced that Neatric Norwood will be joining his staff to serve as his new Staff Assistant. Norwood graduated from Pulaski Academy in Little Rock, Arkansas and attended Tufts University where he earned his bachelor’s degree in International Relations. His professional experience includes working in Mayor Mark Stodola’s office of Little Rock, Arkansas, the Undergraduate Admissions Office at Tufts University, and serving as an intern in Congressman French Hill’s office. “Over the past several months, Neatric has interned in my Washington and Little Rock offices - answering calls, giving tours, handling flag requests, and assisting Arkansas families,” said Rep. Hill. “He’s been terrific in helping our Central Arkansas neighbors, and we’re excited to have him on board as a permanent member of the team.”
10.02.2017	Congressman Hill (R-AR) released the following statement after the Las Vegas massacre took place, taking and injuring innocent lives: “I am deeply saddened by the devastating attack on innocent lives in Las Vegas. Martha and I are praying for the families and victims of this senseless act of evil. We are thankful for our courageous first responders, doctors, and hospital staff for their treatment of those wounded. We must continue to work together to stop this kind of terror.”
09.28.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after House Republicans released their unified framework on tax reform: “We need a tax code that supports American families while promoting financial growth and giving our businesses the certainty needed to grow, expand, and create jobs for Arkansans and Americans. The tax code and its regulations have grown to over 70,000 pages. There is nothing simple or fair about that. It’s been over 30 years since we’ve made any significant changes to the tax code, and it’s time to deliver a simpler, flatter, and fairer tax system. “Consolidating seven tax brackets of taxable income into three and repealing the death tax are two components of many things included in our tax reform package. In total, these recommendations will bring American businesses and jobs back home and let families keep more their hard-earned income. I have always advocated for lower taxes, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to give hardworking Americans hope and relief with a tax code that helps them and their families.”
09.27.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Senate companion to H.R. 910, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act. Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 910, which passed the House with overwhelming bipartisan support on May 1, 2017 by a vote of 405-2. The Senate’s version would add minor amendments to H.R. 910. “During my three decades the financial industry, I witnessed the explosive growth in the exchange-traded funds (ETF) industry and the lack of available research caused by outdated securities law. My commonsense bill, with Senate amendments, clarifies current law to allow broker-dealers to publish ETF research, facilitating investors’ access to useful information in this rapidly growing market. This is a good bill because it removes barriers to investment and promotes capital formation. “I thank my friends, Representative Foster of Illinois and Senator Heller of Nevada, for working with me on this bipartisan, common sense issue.” Background: The Fair Access to Investment Research Act, S. 327, directs the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to establish and implement a "safe harbor" for certain investment fund research reports published by brokers and dealers. Such reports shall not be deemed "offers" under specified provisions of securities law, even if the broker or dealer participates in the registered offering of the investment fund's securities.
09.26.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that members of his staff will hold Mobile Office Hours around Pulaski County Thursday, September 28, and Thursday, October 5. “As Congressman for central Arkansas, part of my responsibility is helping constituents with passports, veteran benefits, and other issues before federal agencies,” said Rep. Hill. “The doors to my Little Rock and Conway offices are open, but to serve constituents directly, I frequently hold Mobile Office Hours throughout the community as my staff will be doing in the coming week in Pulaski County at the Dunbar Community Center, the Southwest Community Center, and the West Central Community Center. We are here to serve the community, and I encourage anyone in need of assistance to visit with us.” Dunbar Community Center WHAT: Community Mobile Office WHEN: Thursday, September 28, 2017 | 5:00 PM CT – 7:00 PM CT WHERE: Dunbar Community Center (Upstairs Classroom) 1001 W 16th Street Little Rock, AR 72202 Southwest Community Center WHAT: Veterans Mobile Office WHEN: Thursday, October 5, 2017 | 9:00 AM CT – 12:00 PM CT WHERE: Southwest Community Center (Classroom) 6401 Baseline Road Little Rock, AR 72209 West Central Community Center WHEN: Thursday, October 5, 2017 | 5:00 PM CT – 7:00 PM CT WHERE: West Central Community Center (Small Conference Room) 8616 Colonel Glenn Road Little Rock, AR 72204
09.25.2017	Congressman Hill (R-AR) announced that Dylan Frost has been promoted to Legislative Director effective immediately. Little Rock native, Frost graduated from Little Rock Central High School and completed his bachelor’s degree at the University of Arkansas where he studied Political Science and Middle East and Islamic studies. He earned his Master’s Degree in Statecraft and National Security Affairs from the Institute of World Politics in Washington, D.C. Frost joined Congressman Hill’s office in January 2015 as a Senior Legislative Assistant. Immediately prior to this, he served two years as a legislative staffer for then-Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AR). Rep. Hill said: “Dylan has faithfully served on my staff since I came to Congress nearly three years ago. He brings to bear a deep knowledge of the legislative process and the issues affecting central Arkansas families. I am proud of his work on behalf of central Arkansans and look forward to his continuing this work in his new role as Legislative Director.”
09.14.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (R-AR) voted for the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, a package of eight federal spending bills to fund the government before the new fiscal year. Rep. Hill issued the following statement after the House passed the bill: “It has been more than twenty-one years since Congress has passed all twelve funding bills and had them signed into law before the start of the new fiscal year. It’s what Americans expect of their government, and it lets Congress prioritize the spending that is necessary and best benefits our republic. I appreciate the House Appropriations Committee completing their subcommittee review and amendment process and then bringing the twelve bills to the House floor for a spending debate and vote. I was pleased that important reforms were also included in the financial services section, especially rolling back harmful provisions of Dodd-Frank. I’m proud to support this bill, and I believe it goes far toward achieving my priorities of enhanced national and homeland security, growing a healthy economy, and helping Arkansan and American families thrive. “I urge the Senate to take up this measure, pass it, and put it on President Trump’s desk.” Background: The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, H.R. 3354, packages the remaining eight government funding bills for the new fiscal year. Click here for additional information.
09.12.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed his bill, the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act: “Just ahead of the historic 60th anniversary, we’re commemorating the Little Rock Nine and their brave role in the fight for equality. As we celebrate, this legislation that passed the House today ensures the proper historical inclusion of the seven homes located across South Park Street from Little Rock Central High School. Together with the school, they will now stand as living monuments to the civil rights movement in Arkansas and the United States. Preserving the streetscape as close to what it was in 1957 serves as a historic reminder for all modern-day history travelers retracing the steps of the civil rights movement. “I thank my colleague, civil rights pioneer, and courageous leader, John Lewis, for his cosponsorship. I also thank our Majority Leader, Chairman Bishop, and the Natural Resources Committee for their expeditious treatment of this important measure. I’m grateful to my friend and colleague, Senator Cotton, for his leadership in initiating and shepherding this effort and the companion bill S.1202 in the Senate. I look forward to President Trump signing this bill, and again recognizing that we have to embrace our past and learn from our history.” Click here to watch Rep. Hill’s remarks on the House floor regarding H.R. 2611. Additional Background: The Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act, H.R. 2611, expands seven homes located near Little Rock Central High School to include them in the school’s national historic site designation, which consists of approximately 1.47 acres and is preserved by the National Park Service (NPS). Additionally, the bill authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to enter into separate cooperative agreements with the owners of such residences to mark, interpret, improve, restore, and provide technical assistance for the preservation and interpretation of their properties.
09.08.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after voting against House Resolution 504: “I strongly support giving additional emergency aid to victims of Harvey and Irma, and I voted earlier this week to provide such assistance. However, when we sent the standalone aid bill to the Senate, it came back to the House with added spending and no budget or flood program reforms. “While I am pleased to help those impacted by these horrific disasters, I believe raising the debt limit for three months without any reforms will only provide greater uncertainty in our financial markets, and, in turn, negatively affect Arkansas and American families. This bill provides no certainty for our military due to the continuing resolution now in place of our House-approved military budget passed July 27, 2017. Further, the Senate slipping in funding for the Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG), which has demonstrated a lack of accountability by losing millions of dollars allocated for victims of Katrina, is a mistake. “I want to see structural budget reforms connected to an increase and extension of the federal debt ceiling, and I want to see House reforms to our failing federal flood insurance program included. As the new December deadline approaches, I look forward to working with President Trump and Congress to pass our appropriations measures to fund our military and government operations, as well as historic tax reform to benefit our American families and businesses and to create millions of new jobs.”
09.08.2017	Matt Karvelas, a Legislative Staff member for Congressman French Hill (R-AR), has been named a Woodrow Wilson Foreign Policy Fellow for 2017. The Woodrow Wilson Foreign Policy Fellowship Program is housed in the Wilson Center in Washington, D.C., and is a six-week program facilitating congressional staff dialogue on foreign policy issues driving the congressional agenda. The Program seeks to provide Fellows with the opportunity to hear from some of the nation’s leading scholars and practitioners in an atmosphere promoting the civil, thoughtful, and bipartisan exchange of ideas. “Programs like the Wilson Fellowship program are important for training our future leaders on policies that directly affect our nation and providing opportunities to network with thought leaders and counterparts across the aisle. I appreciate the Wilson Center’s organizing this program, which will enhance Matt’s professional development and enable him to best serve the people of Central Arkansas.”
09.06.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting funding to assist with the ongoing federal response to Hurricane Harvey in Texas and Louisiana: “I am proud of all of the Arkansans who over the past week have done the American thing by helping the Texas and Louisiana families suffering from Hurricane Harvey’s historic destruction. I was proud to support legislation today for additional aid for Harvey relief and recovery because America is strongest when neighbor supports neighbor.” Background: H.Res.502 provides $7.85 billion in emergency funding for the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) and the Small Business Administration (SBA) to fund the initial response and recovery efforts following Hurricane Harvey.
09.05.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump announced the end of the Deferred Action for Childhood (DACA) program: “Our immigration system is inflexible and outdated, but attempting to fix it through executive action was not the answer. The president’s actions mark a return of legislation authority – where it rightfully belongs - because we are a nation ‘of and by the people.’ My colleagues and I are committed to improving our broken immigration system compassionately and thoughtfully to ensure that those coming to our country can easily comply with our laws in order to pursue a bright and promising future.”
09.01.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR), Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR), and Congressman Rick Crawford (R-AR) congratulated Little Rock’s Aristotle, Inc., President and Chair of the Board Elizabeth Bowles on her appointment as Chairman of the Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee (BDAC). In February 2017, the three lawmakers supported Bowles’ nomination for the broadband panel. In January 2017, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai formed the BDAC for a two-year period in order to provide advice and recommendations for the Commission on how to accelerate the deployment of high-speed Internet access. “Arkansans couldn’t be prouder to have Elizabeth in this leadership position,” said Congressman Hill. “Her deep understanding of the broadband industry makes her an outstanding choice to lead the council in finding innovative ways to ensure rural communities across Arkansas and our nation have an equal competitive footing.” "Elizabeth Bowles is an excellent choice for this position,” said Senator Tom Cotton. “She has consistently demonstrated her commitment to expanding access to broadband in rural Arkansas and -- rural America at large. I commend Chairman Pai on his decision, and congratulate Elizabeth on her appointment.” “Congratulations are in order for Ms. Bowles, who will represent well the interests of rural Arkansas as the Chairman of the Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee,” said Congressman Crawford.
08.31.2017	Congressman French Hill (R-AR) named the Customs and Border Protection (CBP) as the latest winner of the Golden Fleece award for their wasteful spending on polygraph tests. Earlier this month, an Office of Inspector General (OIG) report found that the CBP had spent more than five million dollars on polygraph tests for job candidates who had previously disclosed disqualifying conduct, such as drug use. According to the OIG’s report, “CBP administered polygraph examinations to applicants who previously provided disqualifying information on employment documents or during the pre-test interview. This occurred because CBP’s process did not stop, and is not sufficient to prevent, unsuitable applicants from continuing through the polygraph examination. As a result, we estimated CBP spent about $5.1 million completing more than 2,300 polygraphs for applicants with significant pre-test admissions.” “The inability of the CBP to stop spending money on people they are never going to hire is just one more example of inefficient government bureaucracy,” said Rep. Hill. “Hardworking Arkansans and Americans across the nation should not have their tax dollars spent on this kind of waste. This is the kind of oversight and accountability I am proud to deliver for my constituents.” Earlier this year, the House passed Rep. Martha McSally’s (R-AZ) bill, H.R. 2213, the Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act. One provision in this bill gives the CBP hiring flexibility for certain qualified candidates. If signed into law, full-time law enforcement officers and members of the Armed Services that meet certain qualifications, such as previously having a Top Secret clearance, may have the polygraph exam requirement waived. “I have visited our southern border several times and I’ve heard about how hard it is for the CBP to hire qualified candidates,” said Rep. Hill. “Part of that has to do with the polygraph process. While I am giving the CBP this month’s Golden Fleece award, it is time for the Senate to act on the House’s bill and get it to the President’s desk to sign so that the CBP will have the flexibility they need.”
08.15.2017	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement regarding the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia: "During World War II, my father-in-law helped to liberate Buchenwald concentration camp. He bore witness to Nazi terror – a terror that started with an ideology of hate and superiority based upon race and creed. He and so many other Americans and Allies fought against that ideology, which was an affront to American values and continues to have no place in our civil society. I reject, in the strongest terms possible, the speech of hate and bigotry of white supremacists and others. It's repugnant and un-American. I condemn acts of domestic terror as the tools of cowards. Let's pray for civil discourse in our country, and my thoughts are with the community, those hurt, and those grieving over loss and injury."
08.14.2017	Little Rock, Arkansas – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after Frank Broyles passed away today: “Arkansas lost an incredible coach, athletic director, advocate, and friend in the passing of Frank Broyles today. He led the Razorbacks to their first National Championship, leaving his mark forever on Razorback and Arkansas history, and he inspired those who knew him to live lives of no regret. He will be missed, and his family and loved ones are in my prayers as they celebrate this life well lived.”
08.09.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after the House Natural Resources Committee adopted his bill, the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site Boundary Modification Act: “This September, we will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Little Rock Nine and their brave role in the fight for equality. This bill will ensure the proper historical preservation of this living monument to the civil rights movement in Arkansas and the United States. I thank Chairman Rob Bishop, Chairman Tom McClintock, and the Natural Resources Committee staff for their timely work in moving this bill and taking us one step closer to passing it in time for the milestone anniversary.” Additional Background: Last month, Congressman French Hill (R-Arkansas) and Congressman John Lewis (D-Georgia), along with Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont), introduced legislation that would expand the boundaries of the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site. This expansion would mean seven homes located near Little Rock Central High School would be included in the school’s national historic site designation and preserved by the National Park Service (NPS). For more information, click here.
08.02.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) sent a letter to President Donald J. Trump, U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, and Interim Permanent Representative at the U.S. Mission to the Organization of American States (OAS) Kevin Sullivan, calling for immediate action regarding the ongoing crisis in Venezuela. He issued the following statement: “Right now, Venezuela faces the worst economic, political, and human rights situation in its country’s history. President Nicolás Maduro's government has been violently clashing with protesters for weeks, underscoring Sunday’s dramatic vote by eight million Venezuelans to create a constitutional assembly. For too long, the United States has abdicated its role in the region, standing by as a witness to the current crisis in Venezuela. Now is the time for the United States to reengage with the countries in our own backyard, and not sit idly by as Venezuela falls into further chaos.” Letter This letter was also sent to U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley, and Interim Permanent Representative at the U.S.Mission to the Organization of American States (OAS) Kevin Sullivan.
07.31.2017	Little Rock, Ark. - Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced mobile office hours in each of the seven counties in Arkansas’s Second Congressional District during the week of August 7. “Our doors are always open in my offices in Central Arkansas, and in an effort to best serve the needs of my constituents, my office will be holding mobile office hours,” said Rep. Hill. “A representative of my staff will be available to meet with you to assist with issues you may be having with the federal government and listen to any of your concerns. I appreciate the opportunity to be a resource to you, and I want to make sure your voice is heard and your needs are met.” Perry County Perryville Library | Monday, August 7 | 10:00 a.m. CT - 12:00 p.m. CT 609 Aplin Ave, Perryville, AR 72126 Saline County Bauxite City Hall | Monday, August 7 |1:00 p.m. CT - 3:00 p.m. CT 6055 Stanley Cir, Bauxite, AR 72011 Faulkner County Twin Groves Library | Tuesday, August 8 | 10:00 a.m. CT - 12:00 p.m. CT 10 Twin Groves Ln, Twin Groves, AR 72039 Van Buren Shirley City Hall | Tuesday, August 8 | 2:00 p.m. CT - 4:00 p.m. CT 489 Highway 9 E, Shirley, AR 72153 Conway County Opello City Hall | Wednesday, August 9 | 9:00 a.m. CT - 11:00 a.m. CT 8 Municipal Dr, Oppelo, AR 72110 Pulaski County Wrightsville Library | Thursday, August 10 | 10:00 a.m. CT - 12:00 p.m. CT 13024 Highway 365, Wrightsville, AR 72206 White County El Paso Library | Thursday, August 10 | 1:00 p.m. CT - 3:00 p.m. CT 1607 Ridge Road, El Paso, AR 72045
07.27.2017	Today, the House passed the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, which would enhance America’s national security and keep Americans safe. Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement after supporting the bill: “It is vital that we keep Americans safe and secure and honor our commitments to those who have served in defense of our great nation. Today’s funding bill will bolster our national security efforts, secure our border, and provide our veterans with the care and benefits they have earned and deserve. Years of improper funding and overuse has worn down our military, but the bill's increase in defense funding will help to ensure our military preparedness, maintain our technological advantage, and modernize and repair our military facilities, equipment, vehicles, sea craft, and aircraft - including our C-130 fleet at Little Rock Air Force Base. This much-needed funding will protect Arkansans and Americans across the country from those who seek to do us harm. “I have urged House leadership to stay in session for the coming days in order to complete our duty on all 12 appropriations bills.” Additional Background: The Make America Secure Appropriations Act, H.R. 3219, funds the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, energy and water projects, and the legislative branch. To read more, click here.
07.25.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after supporting legislation that places sanctions on Russia, Iran, and North Korea: “When countries directly threaten our national security and weaken global stability, we take action. Today’s bill addresses the failings of past administrations’ policies by sanctioning Russia, Iran, and North Korea for their aggressive actions. As a member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance, I was pleased that the bill also includes important provisions that enhance the anti-terrorism tools at the Department of the Treasury. This action demonstrates that America is returning to serve as an engaged world leader that takes action against corruption, gross violations of human rights, support for terrorism, illegal testing of ballistic missiles, and invasion of neighboring countries.“ Additional Background: For more information on the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, H.R. 3364, click here.
07.20.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House passed a series of bills aimed to improve America’s energy infrastructure, modernize environmental laws, and enhance energy security: “We’re working hard to implement American energy policies that boost our energy independence, benefit consumers, protect our environment, and preserve our natural resources. The common sense bills we passed this week remove unnecessary red tape and provide flexibility to our states—creating jobs, moving towards energy independence, and promoting a strong national energy policy. Enhancing our energy resources across Arkansas and the nation will greatly increase jobs and benefit hardworking Americans.” Additional Information: The Ozone Standards Implementation Act, H.R. 806, allows states to submit their geographical pollution studies by 2020, and requires the EPA to perform a study on how air pollution affects states’ abilities to comply with the Clean Air Act. The Promoting Interagency Coordination for Review of Natural Gas Pipelines Act, H.R. 2910, allows the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to facilitate the construction of new pipelines more efficiently to keep up with a growing demand for natural gas. The Promoting Cross-Border Energy Infrastructure Act, H.R. 2883, facilitates the international transportation of pipelines and electricity more efficiently by making sponsors of such facilities receive a “certificate of crossing.” The Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and Emergency Preparedness Act, H.R. 3050, enhances the energy emergency planning requirements established in 1990 with the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. This strengthens the capability of states to secure the energy infrastructure of the United States against physical and cybersecurity threats and mitigate the risk of energy supply disruptions. ###
07.18.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) commend U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson for appointing Ambassador Kurt Volker to serve as the United States Special Representative for Ukraine negotiations. Since the collapse of the 2014 Minsk Protocol ceasefire and the attempts of Minsk II in 2015, there has been a lack of progress between Russia and Ukraine to resolve the ongoing war in the Donbass region of Ukraine. On March 2, 2017, Rep. Hill and Rep. Rohrabacher jointly sent a letter to Secretary Tillerson, requesting that a special envoy be appointed to help advance America’s effort to achieve the Minsk agreements, which calls for peace and stability in the Donbass region of Ukraine. “The lack of progress for peace in Ukraine for more than two years has been troubling, and has only increased the tensions between Russia, the European Union, and the United States,” said Rep. Hill. “It’s imperative we strive for peace now, and I strongly commend Secretary Tillerson for appointing Ambassador Volker. This appointment is another example of the United States returning to the table as an engaged world leader in helping achieve the objectives in the Minsk agreements.” “We welcome the appointment of a Special Envoy to Ukraine,” said Rep. Rohrabacher. “We look forward to working together with Ambassador Volker and the parties to the Minsk II agreement. We are optimistic that by fair negotiation we can end the fighting and get Ukraine on track to a peaceful and prosperous future.”
07.14.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House passed the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a bipartisan vote of 344-81: “Today, I was proud to support the authorization of our nation’s critical defense funding that boosts our military’s readiness, combats global terrorism, and gives military personnel a much-deserved 2.4 percent pay increase. Our military is the most effective military in the world, and our brave men and women in uniform deserve the funding, tools, and support they need to successfully complete their strategic missions around the globe. “The NDAA also authorizes more than $200 million for modernization of the C-130 Hercules fleet, which is the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard airmen at Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB). LRAFB is the nation’s tactical airlift ‘Center of Excellence,’ and this essential funding will guarantee these planes remain an essential part of our national security for years to come.” To read more about the NDAA, click here.
07.12.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Caroline Thorman recently joined his staff to serve as his new Communications Director. Thorman, a graduate of the University of North Georgia, comes with nearly three years of Capitol Hill experience, which includes working with the Financial Services Committee’s press team and national media. Thorman’s background also includes print media as well as being a Legislative Aide at the Georgia General Assembly and Legal Assistant at a law firm. Rep. Hill said: “I am excited that Caroline has joined our team and the valuable communications experience she will bring as we our work on behalf of the people of central Arkansas and our key initiatives strengthening our financial sector. Her enthusiasm and professional background will contribute to our office’s mission, and we are excited to have her on board.” ###
06.29.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, which would prevent select federal grant funding for cities that fail to cooperate with federal enforcement of immigration law, and H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law, which would increase penalties for illegal aliens reentering the United States after being denied admission, excluded, deported, or removed on three or more prior occasions. Kate’s law is named after Kate Steinle who was shot and killed by Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez in 2015. The shooting occurred in San Francisco, which is a sanctuary city. Lopez-Sanchez was still in the United States despite being an illegal alien with several felony convictions and five deportations from the United States. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), released the following statement: “The passage of Kate’s law and the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act this week is a message to any illegal aliens with a criminal past that they will no longer be afforded any safe havens in the United States. Those who abuse our laws and bring havoc and pain to American cities and our citizens deserve swift justice, and these bills will ensure that happens. The vast majority of Americans want comprehensive immigration reform, and policies that protect all law-abiding people living in our country from criminals who are here illegally. These bills are an important part of our long-term goals for immigration reform.” ###
06.27.2017	At 5:25 PM CT on Wednesday, June 28, 2017, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a telephone town hall with constituents of the Second Congressional District. This will be the 13th telephone town hall Congressman Hill has hosted since 2015 and the fifth he has hosted this year. Constituents or media that would like to participate can do so by signing up here. After signing up, your number will be added to the list of numbers dialed at the beginning of the call. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Telephone Town Hall When: 5:25 PM CT on Wednesday, June 28, 2017 Where: https://vekeo.com/repfrenchhill/
06.26.2017	U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman today announced that 11 Arkansas airports will receive $5.5 million from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to support facility upgrades and expansions. "These investments will strengthen infrastructure in Arkansas. Local airports are valuable assets for communities across the state. This critical funding will provide our airports with the resources they need to upgrade safety features and support economic growth and development,” members said. The airports receiving funding are as follows: Arkadelphia: Dexter B Florence Memorial Airport will receive $49,500 to conduct a study to identify options for improving drainage on the airport. Bentonville: Bentonville Municipal Airport will receive $1,496,258 for taxiway construction. De Queen: J Lynn Helms Sevier County Airport will receive $82,581 to rehabilitate the apron. Fayetteville: Drake Field Airport will receive $135,000 to widen the taxiway. Hope: Hope Municipal Airport will receive $90,000 to conduct a study to identify solutions to improve airport drainage. Little Rock: Bill and Hillary Clinton National Airport will receive $2,250,498 to construct new runways and reconstruct runway lighting systems. Magnolia: Magnolia Municipal Airport will receive $338,531 to construct a runway and install runway lighting systems. Morrilton: Morrilton Municipal Airport will receive $312,848 to rehabilitate the runway. Mount Ida: Bearce Airport will receive $232,696 to rehabilitate the apron. Ozark: Ozark-Franklin County Airport will receive $168,891 to construct a taxiway. Paragould: Kirk Field Airport will receive $161,511 to acquire eight acres of land. An additional grant of $180,000 will be used to conduct a master plan study to show current and future needs of the airport.
06.22.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act. The bill would reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act for the first time in more than ten years, empower state and local leaders, modernize career and technical education (CTE) programs for today’s jobs, and help students throughout the country obtain the skills needed to find long-term, meaningful employment. Following passage of the bill, the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Skilled American Workforce Caucus, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), released the following statements: “I hear from employers in Arkansas regularly about the issues they have filling important and well-paying jobs at their companies due to the ‘skills gap,’ which accounts for nearly six million unfilled jobs in the United States. Our challenge in Congress is alerting people that these good jobs exist and promoting policies that offer American workers and students different types of training to match our diverse job market. Today’s bipartisan vote is just an example of Congress doing our part to help our young people better prepare for their futures.” – Congressman French Hill “In order to grow our country’s skilled workforce and close the skills gap, federal investment in high-quality career and technical education is a must. This bill will help support skilled job education programs, apprenticeships, and ensure open doors of opportunity for historically underserved students. Today’s bipartisan effort is vital towards closing our country’s skills gap and filling millions of good-paying jobs. According to the National Association of Manufacturers, over the next decade our nation will need to fill up to 3.5 million manufacturing jobs. However, 2 million of those will go unfulfilled due to this growing skills gap. The numbers are clear and the need is great. I am proud to support this legislation that helps to invest in American workers and strengthens us as a nation.” – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence Watch Hill and Lawrence Talk Skilled Workforce on MSNBC
06.16.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – On Saturday, June 17, 2017, at 2:00 PM CT, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host an academy sendoff reception for the eight students in the Second Congressional District who will be entering their first year at a service academy this fall. The event will take place at the MacArthur Museum of Arkansas Military History in Little Rock. Below are the names of the students who will be honored: United States Air Force Academy Thomas Miller Paladino of Little Rock (Little Rock Catholic HS for Boys) Pierce Austin Risinger of North Little Rock (Episcopal Collegiate School) United States Military Academy Justin David Charette of Little Rock (Pulaski Academy) Adam Benjamin Hoxeng of Little Rock (LISA Academy) United States Naval Academy Zachary Daniel Robbins of Little Rock (Little Rock Catholic for Boys) Sean Fitzgerald of Little Rock (Sheridan High School) Myles Fells of Bigelow (Joe T Robinson High School) United States Naval Academy Prep School Adrianna Evelia Munoz of Center Ridge (Nemo Vista HS) The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Academy Sendoff When: 2:00 PM CT, Saturday, June 17, 2017 Where: MacArthur Museum of Arkansas Military History, 503 E 9th St, Little Rock, AR 72202
06.16.2017	U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman today announced that the Arkansas Department of Health will receive $361,120 from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to support drinking water systems across the state. "Arkansans deserve access to safe, clean drinking water. This funding will help ensure people across the state have healthy and reliable sources of water,” members said. The grant will go to the Arkansas Department of Health which supervises the state’s public water system, including maintaining and evaluating drinking water systems. Under the Safe Drinking Water Act, EPA assists with public water system supervision programs and providing reliable, safe drinking water to consumers and comply with national drinking water standards. ###
06.15.2017	U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Association (FEMA) approved a disaster declaration for the State of Arkansas. “This quick response in support of Governor Huthinson’s request is necessary to help Arkansas families, businesses and communities recover from the severe storms, flooding and tornado that affected our state this spring,” members of the Arkansas Congressional Delegation said. Under this designation individual assistance is available for residents and households of Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Faulkner, Fulton, Jackson, Lawrence, Pulaski, Randolph, Saline, Washington and Yell Counties. Public assistance for emergency work and the repair or replacement of disaster-damaged facilities is available for Baxter, Benton, Boone, Carroll, Clay, Cleburne, Conway, Craighead, Cross, Faulkner, Independence, Izard, Jackson, Lawrence, Madison, Marion, Mississippi, Montgomery, Newton, Ouachita, Perry, Poinsett, Prairie, Randolph, Saline, Washington, White and Woodruff Counties. All Arkansas counties are eligible to apply for assistance under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, which helps prevent or reduce long-term risks to life and property. Arkansans eligible for individual assistance can register with FEMA by: Applying online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Calling the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. Last week the Arkansas Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Trump in support of Governor Asa Hutchinson’s request for a federal disaster declaration.
06.13.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) would receive the Golden Fleece Award for the rash of drug thefts at VA health facilities. Recent data from the Drug Enforcement Administration shows the rate of reported missing drugs at VA health facilities was more than double that of private sector hospitals. Since reinstituting the Golden Fleece Award in 2015, Hill has given VA more awards than any other federal agency. “It is clear that there has been a leadership void at VA for a long time,” said Hill. “Congress has been trying to address this problem for years, but the previous administration continued to protect poorly performing employees who were working against the best interests of veterans and taxpayers. While we experienced these problems in Little Rock through the patient data manipulation and the solar panel debacle, this represented a national trend, as many other areas of the country also underwent some form of mismanagement at their local VA facilities.” Today, in an effort to address the accountability issue at VA, the House passed S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. S. 1094 would allow the VA Secretary to remove or reprimand senior executive service employees as well as most of the non-senior executive service employees for misconduct or performance warranting that action. “Our veterans deserve a VA that doesn’t tolerate data manipulation for personal gain and management that doesn’t waste the valuable tax dollars that were appropriated for helping veterans. Today’s vote, while not a silver bullet, is an important step in changing the culture at VA and ensuring that those serving our veterans are held accountable for their actions and operate in a way that always puts the veterans first,” said Hill. ### Related KATV: Rep. French Hill seeking answers on VA Hospital solar panels Hill Calls for Accountability at VA Regional Office in Little Rock
06.12.2017	Today, House Financial Services Committee Whip Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Little Rock native David “Chip” Bartlett would be joining his staff to serve as a Senior Legislative Assistant. Bartlett, a 2008 graduate of the University of Arkansas, spent the past four years working at the Department of Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), most recently as a Liaison Specialist. Bartlett has also worked as a Financial Examiner at the Arkansas State Bank Department and as a Customer Service Representative at the former Metropolitan National Bank in Little Rock. “As our Committee continues its work in investigating terrorism and illicit finance, having someone with Chip’s practical experience makes him a valuable addition to our team,” said Hill. “I look forward to working with him as the Committee addresses important issues like stopping the financing of terrorism and designing policies for our banks and capital markets that will assure competitive services and access to credit and capital.” ###
06.09.2017	A. Brooke Bennett, Chief of Staff for Congressman French Hill (AR-02), has been named a Stennis Fellow for the 115th Congress. Every Congress, a small cohort of senior-level staff members is selected to be a part of the bipartisan Fellowship program, which is aimed at leadership development and improving the effectiveness of congressional staff. Following the announcement, Congressman Hill stated: “As a former congressional staffer and as a Congressman, I know the positive effect well-trained and effective leaders have on our Nation and on public policy. Brooke’s appointment as a Stennis Fellow will continue her development as a leader on the Hill, and I am pleased that she will be a part of this selective group of congressional staffers as she seeks new ways to better serve the people of central Arkansas.”
06.08.2017	Today, after the House passed H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “As a former chief executive of a locally owned community bank in Little Rock until 2014, I saw firsthand the pernicious effects of Dodd-Frank on our industry. Although smaller financial institutions did not cause the 2008 economic crisis, they have borne the brunt of Dodd-Frank’s regulatory impacts. Our Committee has spent hundreds of hours in over 140 hearings and in meetings with regulators and industry experts to put together strong legislation that will reverse the Dodd-Frank institutionalization of ‘too small to succeed’ and ‘too big to fail.’ “Our bill also will increase government accountability by providing structural reforms to the least accountable federal agency—the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)—making it subject to appropriations and requiring comprehensive cost-benefit analysis for rule-makings. The American people want economic growth and they want a government that is accountable to them, the Financial CHOICE accomplishes both of these goals. I encourage Democrats in the Senate to work with Republicans to make sure the principles of this legislation are made into law in order to provide much needed relief for our community banks and help spur growth in our local economies.”
06.08.2017	Congressman French Hill (AR-02), Congressman Tom Suozzi (NY-03), Congressman Peter Roskam (IL-06), and Congressman Gregory Meeks (NY-05) introduced bipartisan legislation that targets Russian corruption and their illicit financial activities, which they use as a strategic tool to promote their interests while harming democracies here and in Europe. “This bipartisan bill focuses on a very serious threat that is happening to western democracies right now. This isn’t about President Trump or Democrats versus Republicans. Russian oligarchs surrounding Putin are using corruption to discredit our open societies and strengthen their sphere of influence. “For seven decades, America has partnered with Europe to strengthen democratic alliances and economic advances across the globe. The Russian government seeks to undermine those partnerships and the progress we have made. America must work both diplomatically and economically to prevent Russia from violating the sovereignty of its neighbors and encroaching on the freedom of our European partners. This bipartisan legislation will help better use the resources of our government to uncover Russian corruption and influence in Europe,” said Congressman Hill. “Our legislation will monitor Russian corruption in Europe and Eastern Europe to make sure we identify these threats. There’s something very dangerous going on in the world right now with the influence of billions of dollars by the Russian government and oligarchs exporting propaganda and exporting their efforts to try and corrupt democracies throughout the western world,” stated Congressman Suozzi. “The United States must remain active in pushing back against Russian attempts to destabilize and undermine our European allies. Russia is using corruption as a strategic tool to weaken democratic institutions and erode public confidence in the Western system. This bill will greater enable us to analyze the threat of strategic Russian corruption efforts and to develop ways to push back against such subversive actions. We must strongly combat Russia’s efforts to expand its influence across Europe,” said Congressman Roskam. "It's crucial that we work to counter and shed light on the various forms of Kremlin aggression, as our democracy, and democracies like ours in Europe, are at stake. This bipartisan bill aims to shed light on the Russian government’s malign financial influence in Europe. As Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats, I'm pleased to join my colleagues, both Republican and Democrat, on this bill and hope we can continue to help protect democracies and fight Kremlin corruption in Europe,” stated Congressman Meeks. The bill would establish within the State Department the Office of Anti-Corruption Relating to Illicit Russian Financial Activities in Europe, which would analyze Russia’s financial networks in Europe relating to investments in strategic sectors, including real estate, energy, media and infrastructure, among others. They’ll work with the Treasury Department to train U.S. diplomats in working with foreign partners in uncovering and prosecuting illegal Russian financial activity, among other things. The office will also work with our NATO allies in elevating anti-corruption as part of NATO’s Readiness Action Plan.
06.07.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 2213, the Anti-Border Corruption Reauthorization Act. The bill would allow the Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) to waive the polygraph requirement for hiring new agents in limited situations for applicants with previous law enforcement or military experience. After the bill passed the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “During my first term in Congress, I made three separate trips to three unique ports of entry on the U.S.-Mexico Border to get a clear understanding of the challenges we face in securing our border. On these informative trips, Customs and Border Patrol agents and local police officials routinely made it known that one of the biggest obstacles they face in effectively securing our border is a lack of manpower. The requirement to have a polygraph pre-employment greatly slows down their ability to reach staff levels needed to do their job, and eliminating this requirement for veterans or police who have honorably served their county or community will help our government fulfill its responsibility of protecting our border.”
06.06.2017	Today, after the House passed H.R. 390, the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “As a cosponsor of the bill and as a member of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, I am proud to have worked alongside the caucus co-chairs and the bill’s sponsors, Congressman Chris Smith and Congresswoman Anna Eshoo, to help provide emergency relief to religious and ethnic minorities who survived genocide and war crimes in Iraq and in Syria. America must always stand for good in the world, and this legislation will increase our humanitarian work on behalf of those desperately in need of our help.”
05.23.2017	Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) along with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) and Congressmen French Hill (R-Arkansas) and John Lewis (D-Georgia) today introduced legislation that would expand the boundaries of the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site. This expansion would mean seven homes located near Little Rock Central High School would be included in the school’s national historic site designation and preserved by the National Park Service (NPS). “To be able to see exactly how it looked when the Little Rock Nine walked their way into Central High—and into history—will do a lot of good for our country. It will help keep this park as a living monument to the courage of the civil-rights movement. It will allow future generations to come here and begin to understand what it took to achieve equal opportunity. And it will remind all of us that we must continually stand guard against hatred and intolerance. During this 60th anniversary year of the Little Rock Nine, I’m proud to introduce this legislation and give this historic site the recognition it deserves,” said Cotton. "Our history is part of every American’s heritage. We have an obligation to ourselves and to future generations to preserve historic buildings and spaces that help us see, touch, remember and learn from our history, to know where we have come from, where we are now, and to inform our future. I commend Senator Cotton for bringing the Senate together in honoring this Fall’s 60th anniversary of the Little Rock Nine. This is an opportunity for the Congress to continue to support the Little Rock Central High School National Historic Site and recommit ourselves to providing the necessary federal resources to maintain and operate our national park sites across the nation,” said Leahy. “Little Rock Central High School was ground zero for the Civil Rights Movement in the State of Arkansas. Expanding the boundary of the National Historic Site at Central High ensures that the entire story of the Little Rock Nine and their brave role in the fight for equality of all children will be preserved for generations to come. I appreciate the leadership of Senator Cotton, who worked on this legislation in the Senate with Senator Leahy, and I am even more appreciative of the lifetime of leadership on the issue of Civil Rights of Congressman John Lewis,” said Hill. “When I was a high school student, I looked up to the Little Rock Nine. They are a part of American history that needs to be fully interpreted and understood. It takes a lot of planning, organizing, and support for young teenagers to consistently and persistently challenge the way of life of a city, a region and a country. These buildings are a part of the legacy of the Little Rock Nine, and they should also be preserved,” said Lewis. Background: During the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School images of the students, protestors, and law enforcement officers were widely seen across the country. In the backdrop of many of those photos were seven homes located on Park Road near the school. It was in these homes that the Little Rock Nine gathered to wait for their walk to school to begin each day. These homes are an important part of the history of Little Rock Central High School and the Little Rock nine. The U.S. Department of Interior recommended in its 2001 General Management Plan and 2004 Long-Range Interpretive Plan that the homes be included in the NPS boundary, but the boundary was never changed. This legislation would be a simple boundary adjustment that would encourage home owners and the NPS to work together to preserve the exterior facades of these homes. No change of ownership would occur. Letters supporting the boundary change from the homes’ current owners have been submitted to the Congressional Record and can be found here.
05.23.2017	Today, after President Donald Trump released his proposal to balance the budget, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “I appreciate the president and his team for their hard work and commitment to tackling our Nation’s spending problems. Arkansans and people across the country have made it clear they want Congress and our president to work together to produce a balanced budget. While this proposal provides some guidance on how the president wants to accomplish this, it is ultimately Congress that decides the federal spending priorities. As we work through the budget process in the House, I remain committed to limited government that spurs innovation and economic growth, aids the most vulnerable parts of our population, and most importantly strengthens our national security.” ###
05.11.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – The following events on Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) schedule for Friday, May 12, 2017, are open to the press: Tour of Green Bay’s Training Facility 10:45 AM CT 1100 E. Broadway Street, Morrilton, AR 72110 Veterans Advisory Council Meeting 11:30 AM CT VFW Post 4453, Morrilton, AR 72110 ###
05.11.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that this month’s Golden Fleece recipient is the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) during an interview on First News with Kevin Miller. During the interview, Hill stated, “The IRS’ anti-fraud program [is] a really important part of what the IRS does. Just between 2008 and 2010, they lost $458 billion a year on not capturing fraud. They get the Golden Fleece for [their work on] a fraud program to improve their capture rate that is now over budget by $86 million. The original budget was $57 million. We need to catch fraudulent returns, but we also need the kind of management, implementation, and responsibility at the IRS to do that in the right way.” Listen to the entire interview here.
05.10.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – On Thursday, May 11, 2017, at 6:00 PM CT, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a reception for the 2017 Educational Award Program (EAP) winners. The event will take place at Pulaski Academy in Little Rock. The EAP was instituted in 2015 by Congressman Hill to recognize one senior and one junior from each high school in the Second Congressional District as nominated by faculty and staff of those schools. The students who receive the award should show significant commitment to academics, their schools, and their communities. This year’s winners are: Arkansas Virtual Academy: Kelsey Grant and Dane Roset Harmony Grove High School: Janae Guthrie and Chloe Cline LISA Academy North: Marti Boren and Yahya Suid Morrilton High School: John Hopkins and Hannah Russell Nemo Vista High School: Lynnlee Alana Bryant and Ethan Hill Perryville High School: Colby Campbell and Garrison Branscum White County Central High School: Clayton J Smith Benton High School: Jackie R Sherrell Catholic High School for Boys in Little Rock: Aaron Moore and Clark Betts Greenbrier High School: Michael Oluokun and Colton C Ray Little Rock Central High School: Chuang Tang and Zixin (Cindy) Ye Mt Vernon-Enola High School: Elizabeth Jones and Rebecca Davis Pulaski Academy: Reagan Allen and Robert Block Wonderview High School: Jessica Gangluff and Shelby Reynolds The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Educational Award Program Reception When: 6:00 PM CT, Thursday, May 11, 2017 Where: Pulaski Academy, 12701 Hinson Rd, Little Rock, AR 72212 ###
05.05.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – The following event on Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) schedule for Monday, May 8, 2017, is open to the press: Congressional Art Competition Reception 6:00 PM CT Historic Arkansas Museum, 200 E 3rd St, Little Rock, AR 72201 ###
05.04.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act, a first step in fixing the current health care law. H.R. 1628 would repeal both the individual and employer mandates prescribed by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), while ensuring the federal government provides necessary protections and funding for lower-income Americans and providing coverage for those with pre-existing conditions. The House also passed H.R. 2192 to ensure that Members of Congress are not exempt from these changes to our health care system. Now, the legislation advances to the Senate for consideration. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “Last night, Aetna—one of the Nation’s largest insurers—made the announcement it would be pulling out of the ACA exchanges in the state of Virginia. Some counties in Arkansas also now only have one insurance option and, in September 2016, we saw a 25 percent average increase in premiums on the exchanges. Having one option is not choice and is not suitable. This lack of insurers participating in the exchanges, causing massive price hikes for those in search of affordable insurance, has become a repeating theme over the course of the last few years. “The status quo is not working for Arkansas and not working for our country. The reform measure that we advanced today will lower the cost of care for individuals and families, provide coverage for those with pre-existing conditions, and shift power back to the states with added flexibility in determining what policies will have the most positive outcomes on their own citizens and populations. What works in Arkansas might not work in California and this bill reflects that important understanding. “This bill is just one important step in fixing our current health care system and still must undergo review and approval by the Senate before it may be signed into law. We also must continue to work with the administration and the Department of Health and Human Services to stabilize our health insurance markets and work with our colleagues in the House and Senate to enact additional legislative polices that will lower health care costs and increase competition and choices for all Americans.” Related House Leadership: Upton-Long Amendment provides additional $8 billion for those with pre-existing conditions CNBC: Aetna will exit Obamacare markets in Virginia in 2018, citing expected losses on individual plans this year President Clinton: "the people who are getting killed [under Obamacare] are small business people and individuals who make a little too much to get into these subsidies”
05.04.2017	Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed the Financial CHOICE Act after three days and approximately 28 hours of bill mark-up and consideration of amendments. The bill would replace Dodd-Frank with a “right-sized” set of regulations that would hold Wall Street accountable while giving smaller financial institutions a level playing field where they can better compete and provide quality services to consumers. The bill also will end ‘too big to fail’ and the potential for future taxpayer-funded bank bailouts. Dodd-Frank institutionalized ‘too big to fail’ by enabling unelected bureaucrats in Washington to decide what constitutes ‘systemically important.’ The CHOICE Act will allow these institutions to fail without disrupting the economy or leaving the taxpayers on the hook. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), arguably the least accountable federal agency, would become the Consumer Law Enforcement Agency (CLEA), responsible for consumer protection and competitive markets and subject to more congressional oversight through the appropriations process and creation of an independent, Senate-confirmed Inspector General. The CHOICE Act would also repeal the Department of Labor’s Fiduciary Rule, which adversely impacts those trying to save for retirement by limiting consumer choice and access to sound financial advice while increasing costs for lower-income Americans trying to save for their retirements. Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House Financial Services Committee passed the Financial CHOICE Act: “Families, entrepreneurs, and small businesses have been hurt by the results of the over 44,000 pages of complex regulations from the Obama-era Dodd-Frank Act. Today’s vote in the Committee to move the Financial CHOICE Act is a major step toward ending the one-size-fits-all regulatory approach of Dodd-Frank that crippled the ability of our community banks and credit unions to serve their customers. These relationship-driven, locally focused banks historically have played a primary role in providing loans and access to capital to many consumers and small businesses. “The American people do not believe that 1.5 percent economic growth is the new normal, and if we want real economic growth that drives us back into prosperity, then our smaller financial institutions need an environment where they don’t just survive, but they thrive. The Financial CHOICE Act is the way to achieve this goal. I applaud the work of Chairman Hensarling and the Financial Services Committee on this bill and encourage House Leadership to swiftly bring it to the floor for a vote.” ###
05.04.2017	Educational Award Program (EAP) Ceremony at LISA Academy North 1:45 PM CT 5410 Landers Rd, North Little Rock, AR 72117 Purple Heart Ceremony for Timothy Armstrong (see attachment for more details) 3:00 PM CT Old Supreme Court Chamber, State Capitol Note: The EAP was instituted in 2015 by Congressman Hill to recognize those students who have shown strong commitment to high academic achievement. The award is available to one senior and one junior from each high school in the Second Congressional District as nominated by faculty and staff of those schools. The students who receive the award should show significant commitment to academics, their schools, and their communities. Congressman Hill will present the award to students at ceremonies held at the end of each school year and will publicly recognize each student’s achievements.
05.03.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act to complete the government’s funding through the end of Fiscal Year 2017. The bill provides a $21 billion increase in funding for defense and breaks from the Obama-era position that any additional defense spending should be met with an equal amount of additional domestic spending. Per the president’s request, the bill contains a $1.5 billion increase in border security assistance, signaling the largest increase in border security funding in the past ten years. The bill also increases funding for National Institutes of Health (NIH) by $2 billion, money which will go to research institutions like Little Rock's University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children's Hospital. The increase in funding will help these facilities continue to search for cures to the diseases that cost our health care system billions of dollars and take millions of lives each year. This priority spending for NIH was sourced from existing dollars previously appropriated elsewhere in the budget. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “This five-month 2017 fiscal year funding bill achieves our president’s critical priorities of boosting our efforts to support national defense, secure our borders, and provide vital, and life-saving medical research, all while maintaining the spending caps under current law. I remain concerned with the negotiation process of this all-encompassing spending bill and the constant uncertainty that is caused by the inability to pass timely appropriations bills that fund the government and the priorities of Congress and the American people. While I believe the end result of this bill is a victory for the safety and security of the American people, I will continue to urge the president to fight for a superior approach whereby all twelve appropriations bills are enacted in regular order without having to endure a year-end spending bill or continuing resolution.” ###
05.03.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Senior Counsel and Advisor Holli Heiles has left his office to join the House Financial Services Committee as Counsel for its Subcommittee on Capital Markets. Heiles, a native of Star City, Arkansas, and a graduate of the University of Arkansas (Fayetteville) and the University of Arkansas School of Law, has worked for Hill since he was sworn into office in January 2015. Prior to her time in Hill’s office, she served as Counsel and then Legislative Director for Congressman Tim Griffin. Prior to that, she served as an intern for Senator John Boozman while receiving a Master of Laws Degree in Taxation from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. “Holli is a committed public servant who has worked tirelessly for the people of Arkansas in her various roles on the Hill. While her departure is a loss for our office, it is undoubtedly a gain for the American people,” said Hill. “She brings with her to the Committee a deep understanding of the issues, as well as the skill and temperament needed to develop good financial regulatory policy that will promote economic prosperity for all Americans. I appreciate her guidance over the past two years, and I look forward to continuing to work with her in her new capacity.” Hill also announced that Deputy Chief of Staff Peter Comstock will handle the financial services issues until a replacement is identified and appointed. ###
05.03.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that Acting District Director and Senior District Representative Anushree Jumde has been promoted to District Director. Jumde is a Conway native who received a Bachelor of Science from the University of Central Arkansas and a Master of Public Service and Administration from the Texas A&M University Bush School of Government and Public Service. Jumde has served as Senior District Representative for Hill for the past two years, and, prior to that, she served as District Representative for Congressman Tim Griffin. “Anushree has been a talented member of my district staff since I have been in office, and I know she will continue to serve the people of Arkansas well in her new role,” said Hill. “She is always eager to assist Arkansans, and she will be an exceptional leader for our district staff that prides ourselves on our ability to provide quality constituent service.” Hill also announced that John Grove of Little Rock was appointed District Representative in the Little Rock office in March. Grove, a graduate of Ouachita Baptist University, joins the team from the Republican Party of Arkansas where he served as a Field Representative. He also served as an intern in Congressman Hill’s Washington, D.C., office during the summer of 2015. ###
05.01.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 910, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act, by a vote of 405-2. H.R. 910 was introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman Bill Foster (IL-11) in February. The bill would address anomalies in securities laws and regulations that discourage broker-dealers from publishing research on exchange traded funds (ETFs) by directing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide a safe harbor for research reports that cover ETFs. Over the past three decades, ETFs have grown from about 100 funds with $100 billion in assets to over 1,500 funds with $2.1 trillion in assets. However, despite their growth in popularity, due to the anomalies in securities laws, most broker-dealers do not publish research on ETFs. Congressman Hill introduced the same bill in the previous Congress, and it passed the House in June 2016 by a vote of 411-6. Following passage of the bill, Congressman Hill and Congressman Foster released the below statements: “ETFs have seen explosive growth over the past three decades, but there is a lack of available research that could greatly benefit consumers due to the current securities laws. This bill provides a simple and common sense fix to those laws by removing this unnecessary burden that prevents investor access to information. I appreciate the leadership and support of Congressman Foster, and I look forward to our continued partnership in working with the Senate to get this important bill signed into law.” – Congressman French Hill “Our economy is better off when investors have access to the information they need to make sound financial decisions. I am proud to work with Congressman Hill on this bipartisan piece of legislation to help investors make good decisions that help Americans save for retirement more securely.” – Congressman Bill Foster Senator Dean Heller (NV) and Senator Gary Peters (MI) introduced S. 327, a companion bill to H.R. 910 in the Senate. S. 327 passed the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs in March and is pending further action in the full Senate. Watch Hill’s Floor Speech Prior to Passage of H.R. 910
04.27.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling introduced the Financial CHOICE Act: “The Financial CHOICE Act will lead to a healthier, safer, and stronger banking industry by ending the one-size-fits-all regulatory approach of Dodd-Frank that is systematically crippling the ability of community banks to succeed. These relationship-driven, locally focused banks historically have played a primary role in providing loans and access to capital to many consumers and small businesses. The CHOICE Act will create an environment where our smaller financial institutions can fulfill their important role in bolstering economic growth. “The bill also will end ‘too big to fail’ and the potential for future taxpayer-funded bank bailouts. Dodd-Frank institutionalized ‘too big to fail’ by enabling unelected bureaucrats in Washington to decide what constitutes ‘systemically important.’ The CHOICE Act will allow these institutions to fail without disrupting the economy or leaving the taxpayers on the hook. I am also very pleased that bad actors will be held more accountable by increasing penalties for financial fraud and self-dealing.” ###
04.21.2017	Today, House Committee Financial Services Majority Whip Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after President Trump signed executive actions to review the Dodd-Frank Act’s Orderly Liquidation Authority and Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) regulations: “The great misconception of the Dodd-Frank Act was that it would end the harmful reign of ‘too big to fail.’ Seven years later, we know that it only enshrined ‘too big to fail’ by allowing the government to decide through a nontransparent process what constitutes ‘systemically important,’ and by establishing a convoluted resolution process, potentially leaving taxpayers on the hook. Today’s actions by the White House are consistent with the Financial CHOICE Act and House Republican’s plan to finally dismantle ‘too big to fail’ once and for all.” ###
04.21.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on the passing of former Arkansas Congressman Jay Dickey: “It is a sad day for our state; Congressman Dickey was a great public servant who made many contributions to Arkansas and our Nation as a whole. I always loved his irrepressible enthusiasm for lower Arkansas, and no one worked harder for his constituents than Jay. We are all fortunate to have had someone with such a strong character be a leader for our state, and Martha and I send our thoughts and prayers to his family and friends.” ###
04.21.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – On Saturday, April 29, 2017, at 9:00 AM CT, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a disaster preparation seminar at the Brewer-Hegeman Conference Center on the campus of the University of Central Arkansas. Representatives from the Red Cross, National Weather Service, Vilonia Fire Department, Faulkner County Office of Emergency Management, Arkansas Department of Emergency Management, Arkansas Department of Human Services, United Methodist Committee on Relief, and Catholic Charities of Arkansas each will be participate, providing their specific expertise in how to better prepare for tornadoes, flooding, and severe storms. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Disaster Preparation Seminar When: 9:00 AM CT, Saturday, April 29, 2017 Where: Brewer-Hegeman Conference Center, 201 Donaghey Ave, Conway, AR 72035
04.13.2017	On Tuesday, April 18, 2017, at 8:00 AM CT at Trapnall Hall, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will award Robert J. Monette of Madison, Alabama, John F. Deslouriers of Galveston, Texas, Leonard B. Shearer of Glendale, Arizona, and Robert A. Frank of Leavenworth, Kansas, each with Silver Stars for their actions in Vietnam. On April 18, 1972, the four men flew their helicopter into enemy territory to rescue the crew of a downed C-130. They were surrounded by the North Vietnamese Army but still completed their mission. Tuesday will be the 45th anniversary of their heroic actions in Vietnam. Their unit commander, Jack Shields of Maumelle, Arkansas, had worked on behalf of Monette, Deslouriers, Shearer, and Frank to have them awarded Silver Stars since 2005. Last year, Mr. Shields reached out to Hill, and the two were able to work with the Department of Defense to have the four men awarded the Silver Stars they deserved for their heroic combat rescue mission in April 1972. Expected to be in attendance are survivors from the C-130 crash that were rescued by Monette, Deslouriers, Shearer, and Frank. The following event is open to the press: Who: Robert J. Monette, John F. Deslouriers, Leonard B. Shearer, Robert A. Frank, and Congressman French Hill What: Silver Star Ceremony When: 8:00 AM CT, Tuesday, April 18, 2017 Where: Trapnall Hall, 423 E Capitol Ave, Little Rock, AR 72202
04.13.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – High School Students in Arkansas’s Second Congressional District wishing to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition need to submit their entries to the office of Congressman French Hill (AR-02) by Monday, May 1, 2017. The Artistic Discovery Contest is open to all high school students in the Second Congressional District. The winning artwork from the Second Congressional District’s competition will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington. The exhibit in Washington will include the winning artwork from all participating congressional districts from around the country. The winning artwork also will be featured on the U.S. House of Representatives’ Congressional Art Competition page. Artwork entered in the contest may be up to 28 inches by 28 inches, may be up to four inches in depth, and not weigh more than 15 pounds. If your artwork is selected as the winning piece, it must arrive framed and must still measure no larger than the above maximum dimensions. Paintings - including oil, acrylics, and watercolor Drawings - including pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, and markers (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collages - must be two dimensional Prints - including lithographs, silkscreen, and block prints Mixed Media - use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photography For more information on how to participate, please contact Chloe Maxwell at chloe.maxwell@mail.house.gov or at (501) 324-5941, or on Congressman Hill’s website at https://hill.house.gov/services/art-competition. ###
04.11.2017	Senator Tom Cotton (AR) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) today announced they will hold a town hall event at 2:00 PM CT on Monday, April 17, 2017, at the Embassy Suites in Little Rock. Doors will open for the event at 1:30 PM CT. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill and Senator Tom Cotton What: Town Hall When: 2:00 PM CT to 3:00 PM CT, Monday, April 17, 2017 Where: Embassy Suites, 11301 Financial Centre Pkwy, Little Rock, AR 72211 Members of the media who wish to attend the event must RSVP to dylan_haney@cotton.senate.gov or mike.siegel@mail.house.gov.
04.09.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the ISIS attacks in Egypt: "Earlier this year, I visited St. Peter and St. Paul’s Coptic Church in Egypt. Just two months prior to my visit, an ISIS jihadist suicide bomber disguised as a woman entered the church and murdered 25 innocent people. Today, Egypt's Coptic Christians again were attacked by ISIS jihadists. These cowardly acts perpetrated by ISIS in the churches of our allies in Egypt can't be overlooked, and this type of terror must be rejected and defeated by the entire civilized world." ###
04.06.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on the military strikes against Syria: “This strategic attack against Syrian military targets was an appropriate and proportionate response to Assad’s use of deadly chemical weapons. Tonight, our president has told Assad that America will no longer ignore his unspeakable acts of aggression against innocent people. Now, the United Nations must follow our lead and respond to Assad’s actions by pursuing a cease fire in Syria, creating safe zones, and holding him accountable for his war crimes.” ###
04.06.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 1219, the Supporting America’s Innovators Act, by a bipartisan vote of 417-3. The 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act has been successful in encouraging capital formation for small businesses and start-up companies. H.R. 1219 would build upon that success and allow more companies access to angel and venture funding by increasing the limit on the number of investors that can participate in a fund, encouraging innovation and promoting economic growth. Watch Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) floor statement prior to the vote: Hill said: Yesterday marked the fifth anniversary of the signing of the JOBS Act, which has had a positive impact in easing capital formation woes for small businesses and start-ups. I am proud to represent and have the opportunity to be involved with the Venture Center and its FinTech Accelerator and the Innovation Hub in North Little Rock and its medical technology innovation. These high-tech innovations combined with angel funds give good-paying job opportunities to people in the Heartland and not just the East and West Coasts. But in order for these innovative start-ups to grow, they’ve got to have access to greater sources of angel capital, and raising capital in rural America is a challenge. Having helped design and offer private placement for emerging companies during my whole career and participating in angel funds prior to coming to Congress, I know firsthand the importance of having a multitude of options for our small businesses to raise capital. Issues: Financial Services, Jobs and Economic Growth
04.05.2017	Today, after the Department of Labor (DOL) announced that the Fiduciary Rule would be delayed until June 9, in order to provide DOL additional time to determine if the rule would negatively affect investors, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “As someone who has spent decades in the financial services industry, I know the importance of providing all consumers—regardless of income—the opportunity to seek sound financial advice. The DOL’s Fiduciary Rule would greatly diminish access to professional retirement planning and guidance for those who need it the most. This is why a broad, bipartisan majority in Congress has called for the rule to be scrapped as written. The ‘Washington-knows-best’ strategy in the ‘war on savings’ employed by the last administration has come to an end, and it is being replaced with a new regulatory environment that works to create more opportunity for investment choices and lowers costs for consumers.” ###
04.05.2017	Today, after meeting with Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on possible infrastructure spending proposals: “This morning, I met with Secretary Chao to discuss our Nation’s many important infrastructure needs, such as highways, roads, bridges, waterways, and water irrigation. While I believe these projects to be of the utmost importance for encouraging economic growth, I expressed my frustration that much of the regulatory regime currently overseeing infrastructure spending creates significant delays and cost overruns at the expense of the taxpayer. “During our visit, I made it known to her that I have serious reservations about some of the ideas that have surfaced on how to pay for these projects. I cautioned the secretary against what I believe to be very bad policy, and that is the idea of creating an infrastructure bank or any ‘wholly owned Government corporation’ to backstop or direct selection of infrastructure projects. This type of policy doesn’t work and ultimately would unfairly pick winners and losers in determining projects. “In my view, a much more sensible approach would be to create a window whereby any American corporation seeking to repatriate money back to the United States may receive favorable tax consideration if they buy an eligible issue of locally underwritten and issued public securities that would then fund our many diverse infrastructure needs across the Nation.” ###
03.29.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – On Friday, March 31, 2017, in the Old Supreme Court Chamber at the State Capitol, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) —on behalf of the Royal Norwegian Embassy in will award 97-year old World War II veteran Jesse Whitley of Mabelvale, Arkansas with both the Norwegian Defense and the Norwegian Commemorative Medals for his service in Norway during 1945. Mr. Whitley was part of the 474th Infantry that took part in the liberation of Norway. The Defense Medal is given to those with either military or civilian service that participated in the fight against the German Invasion and occupation of Norway between 1940 and 1945. The Commemorative Medal is given by the Norwegian Government to military and civilian personnel thanking them for contributions to Norway during World War II. The medal reads “NORGE TAKKER DEG FOR INNSATSEN (Thank you for your service). The following event is open to the press: Who: Jesse Whitley and Congressman French Hill What: Medal Ceremony When: 4:30 PM CT, Friday, March 31, 2017 Where: Old Supreme Court Chamber, State Capitol, Little Rock, Arkansas
03.27.2017	At 6:00 PM CT on Tuesday, March 28, 2017, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a telephone town hall with constituents of the Second Congressional District. This is the seventh telephone town hall Congressman Hill has hosted since 2015 and the second he has hosted this year. Constituents or media that would like to participate can do so by signing up here. After signing up, your number will be added to the list of numbers dialed at the beginning of the call. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Telephone Town Hall When: 6:00 PM CT on Tuesday, March 28, 2017 Where: https://vekeo.com/repfrenchhill/
03.24.2017	Today, following the State Department’s decision to approve Keystone XL, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “Keystone XL is a pro-growth, private sector investment into energy infrastructure that has already supported over 600 jobs in central Arkansas and would create thousands of ready-to-launch private sector American jobs, while having a minimal impact on the environment. I appreciate the president and the new administration beginning to fulfill their promise of pro-growth policies that will help lead to North American energy independence.” Additional Information Washington Post: State Department releases Keystone XL final environmental impact statement
03.24.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – The following event on Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) schedule for Sunday, March 26, 2017, is open to the press: Speech at Arkansas Run for the Fallen 2:00 PM CT Steps of the Arkansas State Capitol Building, 500 Woodlane St, Little Rock, AR 72201
03.17.2017	This week, the House passed the following veterans bills: H.R. 1367, To improve the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) to hire and retain physicians and other employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes. H.R. 1259, the VA Accountability First Act of 2017. H.R. 1259 would give the VA Secretary increased authority to remove, demote, or suspend any VA employee for poor performance or misconduct. Following passage of H.R. 1367 and H.R. 1259, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “We in the House remain committed to making VA a place that employs the best and brightest and those that take pride in working on behalf of our veterans. H.R. 1367 will give the secretary the ability to recruit the personnel needed to provide top-notch, quality care, and the VA Accountability First Act will ensure that those working at the department fulfill their responsibilities in a way that does right by our veterans and by our taxpayers. I hope the Senate will work with the House to pass both of these bills, so that the president can sign them into law and VA can open a new chapter of increased accountability and quality customer service and care.”
03.17.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) joined all twelve other members of the House of Representatives from Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Kansas in writing a letter to President Donald Trump asking him to include public and private stakeholders from waterway systems in the president’s discussions and plans to improve our nation’s infrastructure. The twelve members stressed the importance of including the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System (MKARNS) as part of infrastructure improvements. In the letter, the members wrote: “We write to express our support for the U.S. inland waterways, and request that you include public and private stakeholders from our waterway systems in your discussions and plans to improve our nation’s infrastructure. “As you are keenly aware, a strong infrastructure is essential to a strong U.S. economy and key to encouraging job growth and promoting commerce. We applaud your message on the needed improvements to U.S. infrastructure in both your inaugural address and your speech to the joint session of Congress, and we believe our inland waterways also serve as economic drivers and are vital parts of our nation’s infrastructure. “For example, the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System (MKARNS) opened as an official inland waterway system in 1971. The MKARNS originates at the Tulsa, Oklahoma Port of Catoosa, and runs through Oklahoma and Arkansas to the Mississippi River. In 2016, the MKARNS had more than 11.5 million tons of commerce traverse the system, totaling more than $4.6 billion. From 2007-2016 more than 114.4 million tons of commerce, totaling more $42.6 billion, traversed the system. Further, local, state, and federal stakeholders have been working together for years to find a solution to increase the depth of the MKARNS from nine to twelve feet, which could significantly expand the capacity for commerce on the system. “According to the American Waterways Operators, a 15 barge tow can carry the equivalent of more than 200 rail cars and more than 1,000 semi-trucks. Further, barges can move one ton of cargo 616 miles per gallon of fuel, compared to 478 miles by rail and 150 miles by truck per gallon of fuel. These three modes of transportation complement and rely on each other to move commerce through our country, and the use of our inland waterways as economic highways helps to decrease road congestion and air pollution, and reduces stress on our nation’s rails, roads, and highways. “Unfortunately, the MKARNS is more than 45 years old, and its future use is at risk as there is currently more than a $100 million backlog in critical maintenance along the entire system. This includes locks, dams, and other important equipment that is deteriorating to dangerous levels. Critical maintenance is defined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as having a 50% chance of failure in the next 5 years. The MKARNS is vital to the economies of Oklahoma and Arkansas, as well as to farmers in Kansas, and a critical failure on the system could result in it being shut down for months. Even a temporary shutdown of the system could put future use of the system at risk, as businesses would no longer see the MKARNS as reliable and would likely find other means to transport their goods. “Due to these concerns, we respectfully request that you include the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and local users of the MKARNS in future meetings and discussions about improving our nation’s infrastructure. Thank you for your consideration of our request, and please do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any questions or concerns. We look forward to working with you on improving our nation’s infrastructure and making America great again.” Final Letter MKARNS.pdf.
03.16.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) awarded the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with its sixth Golden Fleece for missing yet another deadline the ongoing solar panel construction debacle at the John L. McClellan Memorial Veterans Hospital in Little Rock. VA’s continued mismanagement of taxpayer dollars resulted in this month’s version of the Golden Fleece Award being dubbed a “Platinum Fleece.” This is the first ever “Platinum Fleece” given out by Congressman Hill. Earlier this week, Senator John Boozman (AR) and Congressman Hill sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin asking him to “swiftly resolve” the construction delays in Little Rock. The letter was in response to VA missing the deadline to activate the solar panels given in last year’s VAOIG report. VA officials recently indicated April of this year would be the earliest construction would be finished. “I am not intentionally picking on VA by continuously giving them this award, but when a situation carries on for this long without a resolution, and it happens at your local VA facility, there is an obligation to keep shining a lot on the problem,” said Hill. “I am hopeful that a new secretary means a new attitude and culture at VA where veterans are the number one priority and failure is no longer acceptable.” The construction in Little Rock took four years longer than expected and increased the price tag on the project by $1.5 million. The project vendor SunWize, now Eco Clean Solar, Inc., was awarded 25 solar projects by VA, receiving over $23 million in 2012 alone before being placed in receivership in October 2015. “Mismanagement is the easiest failure of government to fix. Our letter this week, and now the platinum fleece aren’t poking fun at the problem, they are an attempt to remind the new secretary of the construction management problems at VA facilities across the country, and that it’s his responsibility as a steward of taxpayer money to make sure large portions of VA’s budget aren’t wasted,” said Hill. Related KATV: Lawmakers calling for investigation into Little Rock VA solar panel project Daily Caller: VA Burns Through $408 Million On Sluggish Solar Panel Projects
03.15.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Senator John Boozman (AR) sent a letter to Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary David Shulkin asking him to “swiftly resolve” the ongoing solar panel construction delays at the John L. McClellan Memorial Veterans Hospital in Little Rock. In April of 2015, local news reports uncovered that VA mishandled $8 million in federal grant money to construct solar panels at the VA hospital in Little Rock, only to have them torn down before they were ever activated because they were not compatible with the local electricity grid. Hill and Boozman called for Department of Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General (VAIOG) to evaluate the planning process for renewable energy programs, like the solar panels at the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC), to ensure these taxpayer-funded projects are able to work once constructed. The VAOIG report, released last August, revealed that VA’s Green Management Program spent $408 million on solar projects from 2010 through 2015 and highlighted mismanagement and delays in solar projects throughout the country. The IG report confirmed the construction in Little Rock took four years longer than expected and increased the price tag on the project by $1.5 million. The report anticipated final completion in January of this year but, missing another deadline, VA officials recently indicated April of this year would be the earliest that construction would be finished. In their letter to Secretary Shulkin, Hill and Boozman wrote: “Congratulations on your recent confirmation. We stand ready to work tirelessly to insure an effective, accountable, and efficient system at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to best serve our Nation’s heroes. “In this regard, since April of 2015, we have been trying to work with the VA to resolve the ongoing issues with the solar panel project at the John L. McClellan Memorial Veterans Hospital in Little Rock. Today, we remain concerned regarding the additional work being done on the project, the delay in the operation of these solar panels, and the ongoing increase in the cost of this project for hardworking taxpayers. “Last August, the VA Office of the Inspector General released a report on the solar panel projects at the VA and noted that the delays at the Little Rock facility had delayed the project by approximately four years from the original completion date and added approximately $1.5 million in the cost of the project. The report also expected that the project would finally be completed in January of 2017; however, January came, and went and the project remains unfinished. “We have now been made aware that the project will be delayed at least until April of 2017, a new contractor has been hired, and new switches and relays have been required to complete the project. The delay and new additions will undoubtedly raise the price, and we request that you provide our offices with an estimate of these additional costs. “Further, we request that you work swiftly to resolve any outstanding issues at this project and ensure that the recommendations from the VAOIG report from August are fully implemented to avoid any future similar issues with solar panel or other construction projects at the VA.” Related KATV: Lawmakers calling for investigation into Little Rock VA solar panel project Daily Caller: VA Burns Through $408 Million On Sluggish Solar Panel Projects
03.15.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced the Return to Work Act of 2017 in the House of Representatives. The bill would reform the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) Program by modernizing the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) classification of disability beneficiaries and incentivizing returning to work for beneficiaries who have recovered. According to the Congressional Research Service, many disability insurance beneficiaries will never re-enter the workforce, and, in 2013, only 0.4 percent of all beneficiaries were removed from disability rolls due to employment. Between 1981 and 2013, the employment rate among working-age individuals with work-limiting disabilities fell nearly in half, from 24.4 percent to 14.4 percent. Senators Tom Cotton (Arkansas), Mike Lee (Utah), and Marco Rubio introduced companion legislation in the Senate. After introduction of the bill, Hill, Cotton, Lee, and Rubio released the following statements: “SSDI was developed to be a safety net for those who suffer from a permanent, debilitating disability and to provide temporary assistance for those with a recoverable illness or disability while they heal, but disincentives to work and delays in continuing disability reviews have resulted in disabled individuals forgoing employment to remain on the program and maintain much needed benefits. In order to ensure that SSDI will continue to aid those who need it most and promote work for those willing and able, SSDI needs to be reformed. This bill is the type of reform that will keep the program solvent by helping those with recoverable illnesses and disabilities live full and independent lives by returning to the workforce. I am pleased to be joined by Senators Cotton, Lee, and Rubio in promoting this smart reform of this crucial program.” – Congressman French Hill “We shouldn’t resign people with treatable conditions to a lifetime of sitting on the sidelines. If they can get back to work, then by all means we should help them. That’s why we’ve got to fix this program so it takes into account people’s different capabilities. This will not only save the program, which is dangerously close to going bankrupt; It will save our aid for the people who need it most.” – Senator Tom Cotton “We can’t keep stealing from the Social Security Trust Fund to bail out the Social Security Disability Insurance system. We need real reforms that will both make it easier for recovering Americans to return to work and make the program solvent.” – Senator Mike Lee. “Social Security Disability Insurance is supposed to be a safety net for people with disabilities. However, rampant abuse, lax enforcement and insufficient accountability have enabled this program to grow unchecked and prevented many people from going back to work. The health of our national economy and strength of our communities depend on able-bodied Americans earning paychecks. This legislation represents a long overdue reform that takes care of working Americans and saves our social safety net for the truly disabled.” – Senator Marco Rubio Background: The SSDI program has grown more than six-fold from $20 to $137 billion (in 2012 dollars) since 1970. At the same time, the number of beneficiaries who leave the program to return to work has dropped from nearly six percent in 1982 to less than one half of one percent in 2013. The Return to Work Act would require disability determiners to classify new beneficiaries based on whether medical improvement is expected. Beneficiaries who are expected to recover would be given a timeline and additional resources to obtain employment while on SSDI. These beneficiaries will also be able to reapply if they have not recovered. Beneficiaries who are not expected to recover will have no timeline for program participation. Related Sen. Cotton, Rep. Hill: The Social Security Disability Insurance Return to Work Act (FOX News)
03.08.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House Passed the FY 2017 Defense Appropriations Bill: “Today’s vote maintains funding as well as active duty and reserve troops at the levels we need in order to carry out strategic missions across the globe and it gives our men and women in uniform a much-deserved 2.1 percent increase. The bill also provides $106,668,000 in funding for C-130 upgrades, a $97,500,000 increase over the request of the previous administration. This funding is crucial toward upgrading the planes at Little Rock Air Force Base. Our local Air Force base remains one of the most technologically advanced and well-run military installations in the entire country, and this funding will help ensure it continues to be a center of excellence for our global airlift operations.” ###
03.06.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order on travel from six countries designated by the Obama Administration as having ties to terror: “The president is justified to place a temporary ban on immigrants from the countries identified by the Obama Administration as countries of concern because of their ties to terror. Over the past two years, we have heard extensive testimony from high-ranking Obama Administration officials, including James Comey, James Clapper, and Jeh Johnson, on the ties to terror and lack of verification of critical data about refugees coming from war-torn countries of the Middle East, particularly Syria. The short pause in refugee arrivals will help the new administration design an effective process for vetting. “On the surface, it appears the rollout of the second version of this executive order is being carried out in a more thoughtful manner, allowing it to fulfill the stated goal of keeping our homeland safe while not unduly affecting those with proper U.S. travel documents. I remain pleased that the administration is keeping to its plan to maintain our long-standing tradition of being a beacon of hope for the world’s refugees by proposing 50,000 refugee admissions per year.” ###
03.01.2017	Today, the House passed H.R. 998, the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act of 2017. The SCRUB Act calls for a bipartisan commission to identify outdated and unnecessarily burdensome regulations that need to be repealed or modified. After passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Last year, I wrote a letter to then-President-elect Donald Trump asking him to create a regulatory relief task force to address the overly burdensome regulations from federal agencies that are hurting economic and job growth. I am pleased that this administration is showing an appetite for eliminating bad regulatory policy and performing cost-benefit analyses for new rules and regulations. We need a task force or commission to help better assess the problem and keep Congress engaged with the administration on the topic of regulatory reform. The SCRUB Act creates the type of task force that can be useful in stopping the debilitating effects bad regulatory policy has on creating a healthier economy.” Additional Information Hill Asks President-Elect to Create Regulatory Relief Task Force
02.28.2017	Today, after President Donald Trump signed an executive action to roll back the previous administration’s “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “We are entering a new era, one where regulatory policy is crafted with a more measured and thoughtful approach. Good regulatory policy protects our environment and our citizens, but it does so in a balanced way that doesn’t dramatically and negatively burden the economy. The WOTUS rule has the potential to cause major economic damage, and I support the president taking action to protect the local highway construction projects and towns as well as farmers and ranchers in Arkansas and across America who are most likely to be harmed by it.”
02.22.2017	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Today, Congressman French Hill announced mobile office hours at seven different locations across the Second Congressional District for the week of February 27. The mobile office hours will take place in the following counties: White, Pulaski, Saline, Van Buren, Faulkner, Perry, and Conway. Mobile office hours are an opportunity to serve constituents who can’t easily access the Congressman’s Little Rock and Conway offices. Constituents can work with staff to help resolve any issues they are having with the federal government—especially veterans in need of guidance on how to receive benefits. Below are the dates, times, and locations for the seven mobile office hours: Monday, February 27, 2017 Maumelle Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM – Maumelle Library (10 Lake Pointe Dr. Maumelle, AR 72113) Van Buren County Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM – Western Van Buren County Community Center (11763 Hwy 95 West, Scotland, AR) White County Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM – White County Library (113 E Pleasure Ave. Searcy, AR 72143) Tuesday, February 28, 2017 Conway County Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM – Conway County Library (101 W Church St, Morrilton, AR) Wednesday, March 01, 2017 Mayflower Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM – Mayflower Public Library (6 Ashmore Dr., Mayflower, AR 72106) Thursday, March 02, 2017 Ponce De Leon Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM – Ponce De Leon Center (1101 DeSoto Blvd, Hot Springs Village, AR 71909, Ouachita Room C) Perry County Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM – Perry County Library (609 Aplin St, Perryville, AR 72126)
02.14.2017	Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced the Children’s Consignment Event Recognition Act, legislation to prevent children’s consignment business owners from unnecessary and burdensome Department of Labor (DOL) regulations. The bill would provide an exemption for volunteers at children’s consignment events from the Fair Labor Standards Act (FSLA). DOL’s outdated policy interferes with the ability of Arkansas families to buy affordable clothes, toys and furniture at children’s consignment events. In 2013, a DOL audit ruled that Conway-based Rhea Lana’s Franchise System, Inc. (Rhea Lana’s) was in violation of FSLA because of the company’s use of volunteers, claiming they were in fact employees. In exchange for the volunteers’ time and services to Rhea Lana’s they are able to get early access to the event and a percentage off of their purchases. This decision has resulted in fewer consignment sales in Arkansas and 24 other states where Rhea Lana’s operates. “Arkansas parents looking to provide for their children are being unfairly targeted by the Department of Labor’s dated and burdensome policies. This commonsense legislation preserves an innovative business model for consignment events and protects parents from unfair federal regulations that limit their ability to save money on items children quickly outgrow,” Boozman said. “As the father of two young boys I know how helpful children's consignment events can be to Arkansas families. The Department of Labor overstepped their bounds when they changed their interpretation of the law to force a volunteer organization out of business. I am hopeful the Trump administration can revoke the misguided interpretation on their own, but if not I will work with my colleagues to fix the issue through legislation,” Cotton said. “In situations where federal regulations unduly impact groups or businesses, we need to find ways to reverse that harm. While the Fair Labor Standards Act is well-intended, there are clearly instances in which enforcing it makes no sense. These children’s consignment events that are designed to help parents find affordable clothing for their kids fall into that category. I appreciate Senator Boozman and Senator Cotton’s leadership on this issue, and I look forward to working with them to create an exemption to the FLSA for consignment events like Rhea Lana’s,” Hill said. “I know the families of Arkansas join me in appreciating Senator Boozman, Senator Cotton and Congressman Hill for introducing the Children’s Consignment Event Recognition Act. For four years we have been fighting the Department of Labor for the rights of families to work together and create a special marketplace to recycle their children’s items,” Rhea Lana Riner, President of Rhea Lana’s Franchise System, Inc. said. This legislation is endorsed by the International Franchise Association. The Senate bill was referred to the Help Education, Labor and Pensions Committee. The House bill was referred to the House Committee on Education and Workforce.
02.10.2017	The office of Congressman French Hill (AR-02) is looking for summer interns in his Washington, D.C.; Little Rock, AR; and Conway, AR offices. Interns will work in a fast-paced environment, gaining valuable exposure and knowledge of the legislative process and the U.S. Congress. Washington, D.C. Intern Responsibilities Include greeting constituents, answering constituent phone calls, opening and sorting mail, guiding U.S. Capitol building tours, and assisting staff with administrative tasks. Interns also will have the opportunity to conduct legislative research and assist with correspondence, as well as attend Capitol Hill briefings, congressional hearings, and press events. Social media and other communications experience is a plus. District Office Intern Responsibilities Include answering phones; organizing, distributing, and inputting mail; assisting staff with casework and constituent outreach. Qualified individuals will display strong writing skills and attention to detail. Applicants for both the D.C. and district offices should have a working knowledge of current events and policy topics, as well as a willingness to assist with daily office tasks. Those interested should please send a resume and cover letter to ar02.applications@mail.house.gov.
02.07.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) wrote a letter to Under Secretary for Health at U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and current VA Secretary Nominee David Shulkin informing him that his department would be receiving the Golden Fleece Award for February. According to a recent audit from the VA Office of the Inspector General (OIG) that reviewed the VA’s use of recruiting, relocation, and retention compensation, the VA failed to enforce the repayments cost for employee failure to reach their goals, costing hardworking taxpayers about $784,000 in fiscal year 2014. Further, the report estimates that this lack of action could cost $3.9 million through 2019 if not effectively addressed. In the letter to Under Secretary Shulkin, Congressman Hill wrote: “The OIG includes critical recommendations to reassess the capabilities of the VA’s human resources Smart system, to ‘review and update procedures,’ and to ‘develop internal controls…to monitor compliance with developing succession plans to reduce VA’s reliance on retention incentives.’” I urge you, especially in your likely new role as VA Secretary, to review this audit and work to adhere to the VAOIG’s recommendations to ensure that critical funds for our Nation’s veterans are not wasted on these payment programs. “Our federal agencies must be good stewards of our federal tax dollars, and I am committed to ensuring effective practices at our Nation’s federal agencies. Should you require any additional authority from Congress to address these concerns, I urge you to notify us as soon as possible. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue.” ### About the Golden Fleece Award Every year, Congress appropriates trillions of dollars to fund the federal government, and every year the federal government wastes portions of these funds in unconscionable ways. As a Member of Congress, and as a taxpayer, this frustrates me to no end. In an attempt to increase accountability for every single government program, Congressman Hill decided to bring back the Golden Fleece Award. Originally introduced by Democratic U.S. Senator from Wisconsin William Proxmire in March 1975, the Golden Fleece Award was a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The Golden Fleece Award became a staple in the U.S. Senate during this time, and Senator Robert Byrd once stated that the awards were “as much a part of the Senate as quorum calls and filibusters.” In reviving this idea, the Golden Fleece Award will again have the opportunity to serve as an important reminder to taxpayers about the need for necessary, commonsense reforms to our federal spending.
02.07.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman Bill Foster (IL-11) introduced H.R. 910, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act. The bill would address anomalies in securities laws and regulations that discourage broker-dealers from publishing research on exchange traded funds (ETFs) by directing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide a safe harbor for research reports that cover ETFs. Over the past three decades, ETFs have grown from about 100 funds with $100 billion in assets to over 1,500 funds with $2.1 trillion in assets. However, despite their growth in popularity, due to the anomalies in securities laws, most broker-dealers do not publish research on ETFs. Congressman Hill introduced the same bill in the previous Congress, and it passed the House in June 2016 by a vote of 411-6. Following introduction of the bill, Congressman Hill and Congressman Foster released the below statements: “The use of ETFs continues to grow at a rapid rate. However this complex market lacks research and information that could greatly benefit consumers. I always will advocate for commonsense legislation that promotes capital formation, removes unnecessary burdens, and improves investor access to information. Last year, the House passed this bill with an overwhelming bipartisan majority, and I look forward to working with my colleague from Illinois, Congressman Foster, to get this important legislation signed into law.” – Congressman French Hill “I am proud to introduce legislation that will strengthen our financial system with Congressman Hill. These funds’ popularity require us to work together to make sure investors have access to the information they need to make sound investment decisions. This legislation would create transparency in financial markets that will ultimately benefit consumers.” – Congressman Bill Foster Senator Dean Heller (NV) and Senator Gary Peters (MI) introduced S. 327, a companion bill to H.R. 910 in the Senate. HILLAR_007_xml.pdf
02.03.2017	Today, after President Trump signed executive orders to review Dodd-Frank and to stop implementation of the Department of Labor’s (DOL) fiduciary rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “From day one, DOL’s fiduciary rule never made any sense to anyone with any real understanding of the industry. This tone-deaf attempt by the Obama Administration to evoke its ‘Washington-knows-best’ strategy in its ‘war on savings’ would have been detrimental for access to professional retirement planning and guidance for those who need it the most. I have stressed to House Leadership and the White House the needed urgency in stopping this misguided decision by the previous administration to prevent confusion and potential disruption of important retirement planning services. I am very pleased that the concerns of the Congress were heard, and now the administration can encourage the SEC to consult with all investment professional and investors and craft improved rules for retirement savings. We all should be optimistic that we are entering a new regulatory environment that works to create more opportunity for investment and lowers costs for consumers.” ###
02.02.2017	Today, the House passed H.J.Res. 40, a resolution to disapprove of the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) rule to share information with the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) on individuals who receive Disability Insurance benefits. Following passage of the resolution, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Having a disability and seeking help through the federal government should not be a factor in considering whether or not someone is mentally capable of owning or purchasing a firearm. This rule from SSA serves no real purpose other than to limit the Second Amendment rights of the American people, and I am confident the administration and Congress will be able to reverse this ill-conceived rule. I will always fight to uphold Arkansans right to bear arms.” ###
02.02.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced The Shift Back to Society Act, which would help those who have been incarcerated transition back into society and find meaningful employment. The bill would establish a pilot program to provide grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) to implement educational programs for eligible offenders and help them successfully transition back into their communities. The legislation would allocate $5 million per year for the program, would require no additional funding, and would ensure that funds already appropriated for the Department of Justice would be used to support the program. Cosponsors of the bill include Congressman Cedric Richmond (LA-02), Republican Study Committee Chairman Mark Walker (NC-06), Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04), and Congresswoman Mia Love (UT-04). Following introduction of the bill, Congressman Hill and Chairman Walker released the following statements: “This is an issue that transcends partisan boundaries. The United States currently spends $34,000 per year per inmate - a tab that is picked up by the taxpayer, and a number that is greatly affected by reoffenders. Addressing the problem of recidivism by encouraging hard work and opening up opportunities that can lead to employment benefits all of us. Any American in good standing with the law, regardless of previous offenses, deserves the opportunity to improve their own lives through the dignity of a job, while playing a role in the betterment of our society as a whole.” – Congressman French Hill “Individuals who have committed minor crimes and paid their dues to society too often suffer diminished economic opportunity. Our criminal justice system should serve not only to punish, but to integrate people back into society. HBCUs are well-positioned to serve in this effort, and this legislation will equip them to strengthen our communities and our judicial system.” – Chairman Mark Walker ### Related Huffington Post: Surprise! Republican Leads The Fight Against Mass Imprisonment Of Black Men HILLAR_047_xml_0.pdf
01.31.2017	Today, after President Trump nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “President Trump has nominated a mainstream intellectual and jurist to fill the vacancy left by one of the greatest justices in the history of the Court, Antonin Scalia. I am hopeful the Senate will move swiftly to confirm Judge Gorsuch so that we can return the Court to full strength to do its essential work.”
01.30.2017	Today, after being named to the British American Parliamentary Group BAPG) Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “Last week, I watched Prime Minister Theresa May address members of Congress in Philadelphia and discuss our shared values of liberty, the dignity of work, family, and love of country. Through these shared values, our two nations have cultivated one of the greatest alliances in human history, and together, we helped define the most historic events of the 20th Century. I am honored to be joining this interparliamentary group whose ultimate purpose is continuing the great alliance of our two nations.” ###
01.30.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order on refugees: “Over the past two years we have heard extensive testimony from high-ranking Obama Administration officials, including James Comey, James Clapper, and Jeh Johnson, on the lack of verification of critical data about refugees coming from war-torn countries of the Middle East, particularly Syria. The short pause in refugee arrivals will help the new administration design an effective process for vetting. I was pleased the executive order maintained a welcoming number of proposed refugee acceptances per year. “As to the temporary ban on immigrants from the countries identified by the Obama Administration as requiring more scrutiny, while I believe the time frame of 90 days is reasonable, the design and implementation appear unreasonable and have unintended consequences for law-abiding citizens of both the United States and other nations. While modest inconveniences are acceptable in order to keep our homeland safe, blocking U.S. green card holders, students and professors possessing proper visas, and those extraordinary men and women who have aided us in our Global War on Terror is not acceptable. “The announcement by Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly last night that the administration will allow waivers to let green card holders avoid the travel ban makes clear that the president is willing to work with Congress and his cabinet to ensure no one is unduly harmed by his travel ban. I look forward to working with the president to develop policies that allow refugees access to our great country while providing the American people the level of security they deserve against the threat of terrorism.” ###
01.26.2017	Today, House Committee on Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) announced that Congressman French Hill (AR-02), who serves as Committee Whip, would serve on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Securities and Investment, Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade, and Subcommittee on Terrorism and Illicit Finance. Following the announcement, Congressman Hill stated: “I appreciate the Chairman assigning me to these three important subcommittees. Our Committee has a full plate in the coming two years to promote a sound financial system and remove the barriers that bad regulations like Dodd-Frank have created for entrepreneurs and small businesses seeking the credit and capital necessary for economic growth and job creation. Being successful in these endeavors will require good subcommittee work. “We also learned over the past two years that the Committee’s expertise in the global financial system plays a critically important role in understanding and cutting off the finances for terrorists and other illicit actors, and I look forward to continuing my role in this national security priority.” ###
01.24.2017	For the second consecutive Congress, Congressman French Hill (R-AR-02) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (D-MI-14) will co-chair the Congressional Skilled American Workforce Caucus. Over the past two years, Congressman Hill and Congresswoman Lawrence have been actively engaged in promoting the need for increased skilled workforce training. In the 114th Congress, the caucus hosted multiple roundtable discussions and traveled to Arkansas and Michigan to meet with local issue experts and stakeholders to discuss federal participation in skilled workforce policy. The caucus plans to expand its outreach with other members and increase the number of site visits in the coming two years. Following today’s announcement, Congressman Hill, Congresswoman Lawrence, Arkansas State Senator Jane English (34th District), Vice President for University Relations at Arkansas State University Shane Broadway, and CEO & President of Focus: HOPE Jason Lee released the below statements: “I am excited to build off the good bipartisan work that Congresswoman Lawrence and I did together in the previous Congress on skilled workforce issues. Finding ways to get more of our colleagues involved will be a critical mission of the caucus this year. As Congress focuses on good policies to increase economic growth, I am optimistic that the work of our Caucus will play an important role in getting people back to work.” – Congressman French Hill “America was built on manufacturing and labor. I am excited to be a part of this much needed movement to boost our economy into the future as we transition our manufacturing through new technology and skilled trade. I am glad to join Congressman Hill as we provide leadership and continue to promote skilled trade opportunities in the American workforce. Skilled trade is a lifeline of the American workforce and is directly connected to the future of this country. We must come together as members of Congress to educate, train and promote our workforce for a better future.” – Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence “I am so pleased that Congressman Hill and Congresswoman Lawrence will be reestablishing the Congressional Skilled American Workforce Caucus in the House. Ensuring the opportunity for all of our citizens to have the education and skills necessary to compete for the growing number of skilled jobs is a priority Congressman Hill, Congresswoman Lawrence, and I all share. I appreciate the willingness of Congressman Hill to partner with the Arkansas state legislature on workforce issues.” – Senator Jane English "We appreciate the leadership and vision of Congressman Hill and Congresswoman Lawrence for focusing their efforts to bring awareness and develop policy to show parents and students the opportunities that exist today and in the future, that technical training can provide. We were honored to host both of them at ASU-Beebe to showcase our highly successful John Deere Agriculture Technology Program that shows how institutions and industry can partner together to provide the workforce that is so desperately needed." – Shane Broadway “Focus: HOPE deeply appreciates and commends the work of Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence, and her colleague, Congressman French Hill, for their efforts to ensure the production of a skilled workforce in communities across the United States. Their work is critical to the economic revitalization of urban centers like Detroit, which have been devastated by job losses and inadequate workforce training. We look forward to working with both of them on these extremely important activities of the caucus.” – Jason Lee
01.24.2017	Today, President Trump signed executive actions to advance the Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines. Little Rock-based Welspun Tubular was contracted to build 700 miles of pipe for the Keystone XL. Welspun officials say that more than 350 miles of pipe lay idle at their Little Rock plant while awaiting approval to complete the project. Following today’s announcement, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “In his first week on the job, President Trump is proving that he is serious about North American energy independence, job growth, and private infrastructure spending. Keystone has already produced over 600 jobs in central Arkansas and would create thousands of ready-to-launch private sector American jobs, while having a minimal impact on the environment. These are the pro-growth decisions that the president promised the American people, and I will continue to work with him to support American energy and job growth.” ###
01.13.2017	Today, House Committee on Financial Services Member Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and House Ways and Means Committee Member Congressman David Schweikert (AZ-06) introduced H.R. 531, the S-Corp Access to Crowdfunding Act. The 2012 JOBS Act made it easier for small businesses to raise capital by expanding Regulation A and through crowdfunding, allowing companies to more easily raise relatively small amounts of capital from a number of investors. However, restrictions placed on S corporations (S-corps)—most notably the 100-shareholder limitation—may hinder their ability to take advantage of these new avenues to raise capital. H.R. 531 would amend the tax code to make an exception to this limitation for shares acquired through crowdfunding or small public offering provisions so that S-corps can also have access to this source of financing. After introducing the bill, Congressman Hill and Congressman Schweikert released the following statements: “The long-term success of any company is linked to its ability to raise the money needed to grow their operations. As House Republicans formulate our plans to restructure tax law in this country, we need to make sure that we are taking into account the problems and concerns of businesses of all sizes. This bill would eliminate a roadblock in the tax code so that all businesses can utilize these new cost-effective methods for raising capital.” – Congressman French Hill “As crowdsourcing in capital becomes a more robust opportunity for our small businesses, archaic legacy rules need to be brought up to date for today’s capital environment.” – Congressman David Schweikert Related The Tax Law Makes It Almost Impossible for ‘S Corporations’ to Use Equity Crowdfunding, The Daily Signal HILLAR_005_xml_2.pdf
01.13.2017	Today, after the House of Representatives voted to give Retired General James Mattis a waiver exempting him from the law that requires a seven-year waiting period for retired military officers to serve as Secretary of Defense, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Voting to grant this one-time waiver to General Mattis was not a decision that I took lightly. However, given the uniqueness of the current situation—never before have we been engaged in the same conflict for so long—I believe General Mattis is the best person equipped to win the War on Terror, and not allowing him to be the Secretary of Defense due to his recent military service would be foolish. We need leadership in the Pentagon that knows how to get the job done, and I look forward to working with him as our next Secretary of Defense.” ###
01.13.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed S. Con. Res. 3, the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for Fiscal Year 2017, which provides reconciliation instructions to facilitate action on the repeal of Obamacare. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “As Speaker Ryan and President-elect Trump have stated, we will not repeal Obamacare without a viable replacement. Today, we set the path to move forward with an open and transparent process to repeal Obamacare and replace it with more workable, patient-centered ideas. Working with a new Health and Human Services Secretary, Congress can fix what Obamacare broke, while ensuring low-income Americans and those with pre-existing conditions have not only health insurance coverage, but have more choices over their health care providers and improved access to health care as well.” Related Hill, RSC members outline Obamacare replacement (video)
01.12.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 78, the SEC Regulatory Accountability Act. H.R. 78 would make the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) rulemaking process more accountable by enhancing its cost-benefit analysis requirements and requiring the SEC to revisit its rules after implementation to ensure they are actually achieving their intended purposes. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “While the SEC has made positive strides toward its economic analysis in the past few years, processes can always be improved. SEC regulations shouldn’t unnecessarily impede or make access to capital more costly. This proposal requires the SEC to perform a robust economic analysis and review past rules that may be outdated, irrelevant, or duplicative to ensure that the rules coming from the SEC are ones that will help the agency fulfill its core missions without stifling much-need economic growth.”
01.11.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017. H.R. 5 is a continuation of House Republicans’ push to limit the administration’s ability to unilaterally create rules and regulations that would have significant impacts on the economy. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “Just last week, I gave the entire Obama Administration the Golden Fleece Award for their last minute effort to enact six more unnecessary regulations that would cost the Nation’s economy over $6 billion. This has been a theme throughout the administration’s tenure, political expedience over the general welfare of our people. “The regulatory regime under the Obama Administration has not just been vast and costly; it also has been unnecessarily intrusive. In Arkansas, we have seen agency regulations have devastating effects on our farmers, small businesses, nonprofits, schools, colleges, universities, and state agencies. No one is immune from the leviathan's overreach. Today’s bill, along with the REINS Act and Midnight Rules Relief Act that were both passed last week, demonstrate the House’s commitment to removing the barriers to our economy that have burdened hardworking Americans.”
01.09.2017	House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) has announced that Congressman French Hill (AR-02) has been selected to the Committee’s leadership team to serve as Whip. “Over the past two years, Congressman Hill has proven to be a tremendously valuable asset to the Committee, and I am looking forward to working alongside him in his new capacity as Committee Whip,” said Chairman Hensarling. “Congressman Hill will play a vital role in helping the Committee craft proposals to increase access to capital, grow the American economy and help create jobs.” For the two decades prior to serving in the House of Representatives, Congressman Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community as a commercial banker and investment manager. He was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp., which was headquartered in Little Rock. Congressman Hill also served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. President Bush appointed Hill to be Executive Secretary to the President’s Economic Policy Council (EPC), where he coordinated all White House economic policy. From 1989-1991, he was Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Corporate Finance. In the 114th Congress, Congressman Hill served on two subcommittees of the House Committee on Financial Services: the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises and the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. Congressman Hill was also a member of the Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. “In the coming Congress, we have an opportunity to build off the good work the Committee has done under its first four years of Chairman Hensarling’s leadership,” said Congressman Hill. “I am excited to be able to continue to use my three decades of work in banking, finance, and public policy to help the Committee reverse the negative effects of Dodd-Frank and give American families and businesses of all sizes the opportunity to once again flourish.” ###
01.09.2017	The Republican Study Committee (RSC) announced that Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will serve as a member of its Steering Committee for the 115th Congress. RSC Steering Committee provides guidance to the Chairman and helps set the policy agenda for one of Congress’s oldest Conservative Caucuses. “We have a unique opportunity in the 115th Congress to do more than simply make an argument – we have the opportunity to make a positive, lasting difference in all of our communities. I am proud to officially announce the members of the RSC Steering Committee,” said RSC Chairman Mark Walker. “This diverse group of conservatives is united by their commitment to advancing pro-active policies with a genuine approach and a strong voice that addresses the challenges facing our nation. With a sense of urgency, I am privileged to work with these professionals dedicated to serving the American people.” Congressman Hill is in his second term as a member of RSC and has cosponsored RSC’s plan to repeal and replace Obamacare with a proposal that would increase and expand access to insurance, spur competition, and encourage innovation, representing an important step forward toward real, patient-centered health care reforms. “RSC remains one of the most influential groups in Congress, and it’s our responsibility to be a voice for good, conservative policies that will change the culture in Washington and help grow the economy throughout the entire country,” said Congressman Hill. “I am excited to be a member of the Steering Committee as we begin crafting policy that matches the expectations that the American people have for their government.” ###
01.06.2017	Today, following the death of former Arkansas State Senator Stanley Russ, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Martha and I were saddened to learn about the loss of our friend, former state senator Stanley Russ. For two decades Stanley was a friend and sound adviser. Our State and the Faulkner County community will miss Stanley's smile, enthusiasm, and ability to get things done to enrich the lives of Arkansans.” ###
01.05.2017	This week, the Republican Study Committee (RSC) unveiled its plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. Since its implementation into law, the so-called Affordable Care Act has created giant increases in premiums and deductibles, forced insurers to withdraw from the markets, and limited choice and access to healthcare for hardworking American families. Congressman French Hill (AR-02), an original cosponsor of the RSC bill, stated, “The RSC proposal would repeal Obamacare and replace it with free-market ideas to increase and expand access to insurance, spur competition, and encourage innovation, representing an important step forward toward real, patient-centered health care reforms that Americans need and deserve. “Between solutions outlined in our Better Way Agenda, including Medicare and Medicaid reforms, and the RSC proposal, House Republicans are working to fix one of the greatest blunders of the Obama Administration—its failed healthcare policy. Obamacare has gone from bad to worse. Vice President-elect Mike Pence came to the Capitol yesterday to outline the president-elect’s commitment to repealing and replacing Obamacare. They are committed to working with Congress to create a plan that will actually accomplish what the previous administration promised, such as lower premiums and deductibles and increased access to care.” ###
01.04.2017	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced that the entire Obama Administration would be the recipient of the Golden Fleece Award for January. A recent report from the American Action Forum found that the administration’s last minute environmental and other regulations would cost the U.S. economy $6 billion. Today, in an effort to prevent similar behavior from future administrations, the House passed H.R. 21, the Midnight Rules Relief Act, which would make it easier for Congress to repeal midnight rules that could cause significant negative effects on the economy. “Fortunately, the administration that has actively imposed billions in unnecessary regulatory costs on hardworking Americans is now taking its final breaths,” said Hill. “Today, we voted on an important measure to prevent similar actions in the future, and with an estimated $6 billion cost for the U.S. economy, this last-ditch rulemaking effort must be opposed, reviewed, and rescinded by the new administration to ensure that we put an end to these types of last ditch efforts by a departing administration.” About the Golden Fleece Award Every year, Congress appropriates trillions of dollars to fund the federal government, and every year the federal government wastes portions of these funds in unconscionable ways. As a Member of Congress, and as a taxpayer, this frustrates me to no end. In an attempt to increase accountability for every single government program, Congressman Hill decided to bring back the Golden Fleece Award. Originally introduced by Democratic U.S. Senator from Wisconsin William Proxmire in March 1975, the Golden Fleece Award was a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The Golden Fleece Award became a staple in the U.S. Senate during this time, and Senator Robert Byrd once stated that the awards were “as much a part of the Senate as quorum calls and filibusters.” In reviving this idea, the Golden Fleece Award will again have the opportunity to serve as an important reminder to taxpayers about the need for necessary, commonsense reforms to our federal spending.
01.03.2017	Today, after being sworn into office for his second term, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “It is an honor to continue to serve the citizens of central Arkansas and to again affirm my allegiance to our Nation and our beloved Constitution. The next two years present us with a unique opportunity to create good common sense solutions to the many challenges we are facing. Fixing our broken health care system, reforming the tax code, increasing access to credit for consumers and small businesses, growing our economy, securing our border, and defeating our enemies across the globe will be the metric for success in the 115th Congress.” ###
12.23.2016	Today, after the Obama Administration failed to veto the United Nations Security Council’s anti-Israel resolution, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement: “Down to the bitter end, the Obama Administration continues to undermine and threaten our relationship with Israel. Ambassador Power’s abstention vote might as well have been a vote in favor of this anti-Israel resolution. For decades, the cornerstone principle of American diplomatic policy toward Israel and Palestine has been that only through direct negotiations between the two countries can peace be achievable. Today, with the help of the Obama Administration, the United Nations delivered a major blow to the possibility of peace. The Republican led House, Senate, and new administration must now work to undo this harm, and restore our unshakeable alliance with Israel.” ###
12.20.2016	Today, after The House Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing released the report from its 12-month investigation into terror finance, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement:. "Over the past two years, I have been working with the other members of the task force finding ways to cut funding to the terrorist organizations that want to harm America and our strategic allies across the globe. This report highlights much of that work, including how terror groups receive funding and solutions to eliminate many of these dangerous threats. I look forward to continuing our efforts in the next Congress and reevaluating our relationships with known state sponsors of terror like Iran and Syria."
12.14.2016	Today, after the Federal Reserve announced its decision to raise interest rates, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “Today’s decision by the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates for the first time in 2016—and just the second time since 2006—is a delayed move considering the increase in market interest rates over the past four months. The Federal Reserve needs to develop a more rules-based approach to monetary policy, such as that contained in the Financial Choice Act, to prevent ambiguity and unpredictability in future decisions.” ###
12.08.2016	Today, after the House passed a Continuing Resolution to fund the Government through April 28, 2017, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Although I am generally opposed to funding the government through a Continuing Resolution, I agree that it is important to give the Trump Administration and the next Congress a clean slate when determining what our spending priorities will be. However, moving appropriations bills through regular order and reigning in unchecked spending must be one of our top priorities next Congress. Only then do we fully exercise our Article 1 ‘power of the purse, ’and I am committed to working with my colleagues to accomplish this important task.” ###
12.07.2016	On Monday, The Washington Post published a report that Pentagon officials buried evidence of $125 billion in bureaucratic waste in 2015. Following the Post’s reporting, Congressman French Hill announced the Department of Defense (DoD) would receive this month’s Golden Fleece Award. The buried report identified $134 billion of the DoD’s $580 billion budget was spent on overhead and operations including human resources, accounting, and property management, and that DoD employed 1 million people in business operations compared to the 1.3 million active-duty troops serving our country. The report suggested offering early retirement, encouraging attrition, using fewer contractors, and making better use of information technology to save nearly $125 billion, but top DoD officials buried the report, expressing concerns that Congress would seek to cut its budget. The Post’s report also notes the intransigence of Congress. “We are all too often to blame for blocking even modest attempts to reform the workforce needs at DoD with local, parochial concerns getting in the way of the bigger picture,” said Hill. “I saw this firsthand last year when a plan to consolidate our Air Force C-130J planes for effectiveness and efficiency was defeated. Previously, U.S. Air Force officials had highlighted the transfer of 10 C-130J aircraft from Keesler Air Force Base to Little Rock Air Force Base as a critical cost saving initiative, along with other force structure changes, of $922 million, across the future years defense plan (FYDP), a five-year plan, for savings.” Last year’s National Defense Authorization Act included language to postpone the transfer of these aircraft, and due to Congressional pressures and the argument for a one-time savings of $24.3 million and a total estimated savings of $751 million over the FYDP, the Air Force rescinded its plan and maintained the more costly unit. U.S. Air Force officials had argued for years in favor of this transfer, stating that the move to LRAFB “would have integrated all three elements of the Total Force at a single location, eliminating the overhead personnel and logistics support required at a stand-alone unit and enabling formal and informal exchanges of personnel, equipment, and expertise.” “Despite calls from the Air Force to make this transfer, Congress’s meddling prevented this common-sense, cost-saving initiative,” said Hill. “While I am giving the Golden Fleece Award to the Pentagon, there is no doubt that Congress can do more to address the pressing needs of our country and better allocate federal dollars and resources for the benefit our country and hardworking taxpayers.” ###
12.06.2016	Today, the House passed S. 3076, the Charles Duncan Buried with Honor Act of 2016. S. 3076, named after Charles Duncan of Little Rock, Arkansas, and introduced earlier this year by Senator Tom Cotton (AR), would amend the Veterans’ Benefits Improvement Act of 2012. Under current law, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) provides a casket or urn for a deceased veteran whose families do not have the financial means to pay for a burial. However, families that utilize the burial benefits are eligible to be buried at national cemeteries only. At the time of his death last year, Charles Duncan’s family require assistance from VA to pay for his burial, and, under current law, he was buried at the closest national cemetery—Fort Smith, Arkansas—which is over 150 miles away from his hometown in Little Rock, Arkansas. S. 3076 would allow veterans in similar situations to be buried at a state or tribal cemetery if it is geographically closer to the veteran’s home. Prior to passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated on the House Floor: “Mr. Speaker: I rise in support of S. 3076, the Charles Duncan Buried with Honor Act. “On Saturday, July 25, 2015, U.S. Navy veteran and Little Rock resident Charles Duncan passed away at the age of 66, leaving behind a daughter, three grandsons, three great-grandsons, and a brother and sister, along with many more family, friends, and loved ones. “Sadly, like too many of our veterans, Mr. Duncan was financially insolvent and could not afford the costs of his funeral. “Thankfully, he was eligible for essential VA benefits to cover these costs, however, these benefits required that he be buried at the national cemetery in Fort Smith, instead of close to his home and family in Little Rock. “By expanding the cemetery burial options offered by the VA to our veterans in need, we can provide families with the solace and peace they deserve. “I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and support the peaceful rest of the veterans we have lost.” ###
12.02.2016	“For the 55th straight year, Republicans and Democrats have come together to fund our military at the levels they need to complete their strategic missions around the globe. We also would be giving a much-deserved pay raise for our men and women in uniform, at a level even higher than the president initially requested. The NDAA would also authorize the modernization of our C-130 Hercules fleet, which is the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard airlifters at Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB). LRAFB has been a center for excellence for a long time, and modernizing the C-130s will guarantee these planes remain a critical part of our national security for years to come.” ###
12.01.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 6392, the Systemic Risk Designation Improvement Act of 2016. A previous version of the bipartisan bill passed the House Financial Services Committee in November of last year by a vote of 39-16. Under current law, a financial instruction is automatically designated as a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) if it has $50 billion in assets. Because of this arbitrary threshold, regional and large community banks are subject to the same level of regulation as complex, trillion-dollar banks, creating an unnecessary burden that affects consumer access to credit and services. This bill would remove the arbitrary SIFI threshold and replace it with an evaluative process that takes into account factors other than size, including complexity and interconnectedness, to determine whether an institution poses a threat to U.S. economic stability. Watch Congressman Hill’s Floor Speech on H.R. 6392 Hill said: “This bill today is not about dangerous agendas, greed or signing bonuses, or wholesale exemptions of regulation for 27 big banks – not at all. This bill is about using common sense and taking off the autopilot that’s in Dodd-Frank, which designates our SIFIs on size alone, and in fact, includes all the factors that should be considered for institutions that might present a systemic risk. “This is a bipartisan bill that has support on both sides of the aisle. Former Chairman [Barney Frank’s] comments have been read into the record, but how about [Federal Reserve Board Member] Dan Tarullo, who said: ‘Resolution planning and ­­­quite elaborate requirements of our supervisory stress do not seem to me to be necessary for banks between $50 billion and $100 billion.’ Tom Curry, our Comptroller of the Currency said: ‘The better approach is to use an asset figure as a first screen and then give discretion to supervisors based on risks in the business plan and operations.’ And Senator Sherrod Brown, certainly a supporter of Dodd-Frank said: ‘I do not agree that some banks over $50 billion should be regulated like Wall Street mega-banks.’ I support this bill, and I yield back.” ###
11.30.2016	Today, the House passed H.Amdt. to S.Admt. to H.R. 34, 21st Century Cures Act, by a bipartisan vote of 392-26. The 21st Century Cures Act provides critical funding in a deficit-reducing manner to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and ensures that great research institutions like Little Rock’s University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children’s Hospital can sustain their search for cures to diseases like cancer and Alzheimer’s. “I lost my mother to cancer and my mother-in-law to Alzheimer’s and know first-hand the devastating affect these diseases can have on families,” said Congressman French Hill (AR-02). “Providing this funding to NIH will move us closer to finally curing these diseases and potentially saving millions of lives.” The 21st Century Cures Act also included provisions that would modernize clinical trials and streamline and improve the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) review of lifesaving medications. It also included the text of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016, which passed the House on July 6, 2016, by a vote of 422-2. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act would refocus and retool mental health programs and create a Senate-confirmed assistant secretary position to oversee and coordinate mental health programs and policies. It also would address severe shortages in our mental health workforce and treatment facilities, increasing the inpatient bed space to ensure patients have access to quality mental health care. This bill also would improve mental health care for children undergoing serious emotional issues and adults struggling with mental illness through targeted authorizations and reauthorizations, including expanding Assisted Outpatient Treatment. “The mental health component of 21st Century Cures is a small but important first step in reforming our outdated mental health care system at the federal level,” said Hill. “But states should also reevaluate their civil commitment laws to ensure those in psychiatric crisis can get treatment.” Similar to the 21st Century Cures Act, the core provisions of H.R. 2646 all passed the House earlier through regular order and by overwhelmingly bipartisan majorities. ###
11.22.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) wrote to President-Elect Donald Trump and Vice President-Elect Mike Pence asking them to create a Task Force on Regulatory Relief to address the overly burdensome regulations from federal agencies that are hurting economic and job growth. Yesterday, President Barack Obama released his semi-annual regulatory agenda, giving insight into what additional regulations the president plans to propose prior to leaving office in January of next year. “Even in the waning moments of his presidency, President Obama still wants to press forward with the regulatory proposals that have stymied economic growth over the past eight years,” said Hill. “This type of deafness to the negative effects of the administration’s burdensome regulatory policy is —in large part— what galvanized the American people to overwhelmingly support the pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda of House Republicans.” In the letter, Hill stated: “Since President Obama took office in 2009, federal agencies have issued approximately 600 major regulations costing taxpayers over $100 million each. The current regulatory regime has decimated many of our communities across the country, impacting many middle-income jobs in important industries, particularly our energy industries of oil, gas, and coal. We have also seen these regulations disproportionately impact our Nation’s small businesses that struggle to succeed under the weight of the increased regulation and compliance costs. “After his inauguration in 1981, President Ronald Reagan established the Task Force on Regulatory Relief, with his Vice President George H.W. Bush at the helm, to help return the Nation to prosperity and productivity with ‘real reform and tangible results’ for the American people. For its charter, the Task Force was tasked with reviewing major regulations proposed by our federal agencies, assessing regulations already on the books for needed changes, and overseeing the development of legislative proposals to address regulatory reform. “In the House, we worked to pass legislation known as the REINS Act to require Congressional approval of major regulations from our federal agencies to ensure their effectiveness and economic benefits to the American taxpayers. With your election, we have the unique opportunity to effectively review our existing federal regulations and implement common sense proposals to restore our economy, provide more jobs for hardworking Americans, and revitalize our communities.” Related Hill Statement on DOL Overtime Rule Hill Statement on DOL Fiduciary Rule Hill Votes to Ensure Small Businesses Have a Voice in CFPB Regulations Hill Highlights CFPB’s Ineffective TRID Implementation at ALTA Conference Hill Statement on WOTUS Injunction Hill Statement on TRID Changes
11.21.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 5711, to prohibit the Secretary of the Treasury from authorizing certain transactions by a U.S. financial institution in connection with the export or re-export of a commercial passenger aircraft to the Islamic Republic of Iran, by a vote of 243-174. Prior to the vote, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spoke on the House Floor, urging his colleagues to support passage of the bill. Watch Congressman Hill’s Floor Speech on H.R. 5711 Hill said: “I was proud to be a member of the Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing. During our hearings, we heard numerous witnesses describe Iran’s support for terrorism and other evil activities. It is staggering to hear as we sit here tonight that we have a member of the other party suggest that Iran is a friend to the United States, there is no friendship between the United States and Iran…. “This legislation is about the belief that the United States should not directly support terrorism and the killing of innocent civilians. It is the mission of Iran to use these aircraft for nefarious purposes. We are already have that guilt on our hands by the release of $100 billion and $1.7 billion in cash, let’s not compound the errors of the past by opposing this bill which will [result in limited] taxpayers’ risk and our financial sector’s risk by financing aircraft to Iran.” ###
11.15.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record after the House passed H.R. 4665, the Outdoor Recreation’s Economic Contributions Act: “As the Natural State, Arkansas’s outdoor recreation and natural beauty draws millions of visitors each year, contributing to our state’s economy and supporting thousands of jobs. “Yesterday, the House passed the Outdoor Recreation’s Economic Contributions Act, which would result in our Nation measuring the economic impact of our outdoor recreation industry, providing Americans with important information on this vital part of the U.S. economy. “This bill would give our federal, state, and local governments the ability to more fully analyze the benefits that outdoor recreation provides so that we may better support our parks and outdoor areas for the enjoyment of all Americans. “In Arkansas, the Department of Parks and Tourism also provides important funding to improve the management and quality of our state’s outdoor recreation areas through the Outdoor Recreation Grants Program. “Through important policies and programs at our federal, state, and local levels, we can continue to support the great outdoors and encourage more Americans to visit and access our country’s vast network of parks, forests, and trails.”
10.18.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Today, Congressman French Hill announced mobile office hours at seven different locations across the Second Congressional District for the week of October 24. The mobile office hours will take place in the following counties: White, Pulaski, Saline, Van Buren, Faulkner, Perry, and Conway. Mobile office hours are an opportunity to serve constituents who can’t easily access the Congressman’s Little Rock and Conway offices. Constituents can work with staff to help resolve any issues they are having with the federal government—especially veterans in need of guidance on how to receive benefits. Below are the dates, times, and locations for the seven mobile office hours: Monday, October 24, 2016 Beebe Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM – Beebe City Hall (321 N. Elm St, Beebe, AR 72012) Jacksonville Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM – Jacksonville Community Center (5 Municipal Dr, Jacksonville, AR 72076) Wednesday, October 26, 2016 Bryant Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM – Lobby of Bishop Park (6401 Boone Rd, Bryant, AR 72022) Clinton Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM – Van Buren County Aging Program (311 Yellowjacket Ln, Clinton, AR 72031) Thursday, October 27, 2016 Mt Vernon Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM – Mt Vernon City Hall (2 Garland Springs Rd, Mt Vernon, AR 72111) Perryville Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00PM – Perryville City Hall (613 N. Fourche Ave, Perryville, AR 72126) Friday, October 28, 2016 Morrilton Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM – Conway County Community Center (1307 N. Business 9, Morrilton, AR 72110)
10.16.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – At 1:00 PM CT on Monday, October 17, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will speak at the dedication ceremony for the Harold George Bennett Post Office Building in Perryville, Arkansas. The ceremony will take place at Perryville High School, 614 South Fourche Ave., Perryville, AR 72126 In June of 2015, Congressman Hill and Senator John Boozman (AR) introduced legislation to name the Perryville Post Office in honor of Sergeant Harold George Bennett, a Perryville native. Sgt. Bennett spent 179 days as a POW during the Vietnam War and his captors executed him on June 25, 1965. Sergeant Bennett was the first American POW killed in Vietnam, and his remains have never been returned home. This bill was signed into law by the president in June of this year. After the bill became law, Congressman Hill said, “Sergeant Harold George Bennett is a highly decorated war hero whose military service is deserving of a tribute that will last for generations to come. Naming this post office after Sgt. Bennett is a small token of our immeasurable appreciation for his and his family’s commitment to this Nation.” The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Sergeant Harold George Bennett Post Office Dedication When: 1:00 PM CT, Monday, October 17, 2016 Where: Perryville High School, 614 South Fourche Ave., Perryville, AR 72126
10.11.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) structure is unconstitutional: “I have said the CFPB is the single most powerful and least accountable agency in Washington—with a director that can only be fired for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance” and because the CFPB is an independent agency located within the Fed—who also has no authority—and is not subject to the appropriations process, neither the administration or Congress has a say over its actions. “I am pleased to see the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals—the second most important court in the country—agrees that the CFPB’s current structure is unconstitutional," stating that “other than the President, the Director of the CFPB is the single most powerful official in the entire United States Government, at least when measured in terms of unilateral power. The House Financial Services Committee has been working to bring accountability to the CFPB and in September, passed the Financial CHOICE Act, which would replace the CFPB’s all-powerful director with a bipartisan commission and subject the agency to the congressional appropriations process. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues to ensure the CFPB is accountable to the American people.” ###
10.04.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host his second Veterans History Project Workshop at 1501 N University Ave, Little Rock, AR 72207 at 9:00 AM CT on Saturday, October 8, 2016. The Library of Congress launched the Veterans History Project in 2000 to collect the stories of America’s veterans. The workshop will train volunteers to interview veterans and submit the recordings of their stories to the Library of Congress. After the training workshop, staff will be able to connect volunteers with veterans to interview. Anyone interested in volunteering, or veterans interested in telling their stories should RSVP to Chloe Maxwell (chloe.maxwell@mail.house.gov or (501) 324-5941). The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Veterans History Project Workshop When: 9:00 AM CT, Saturday, October 8, 2016 Where: 8th Floor of 1501 N University Ave, Little Rock, AR 72207
09.29.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and 85 other House Republicans wrote to Department of Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker urging her to reconsider the administration’s decision to relinquish America’s authority in promoting free speech and open discourse on the Internet. The Department of Commerce recently issued an assurance that the United States will not lose control over the .mil, .gov, .edu, and .us domains after it relinquishes control of Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). The U.S. Government has no statutory authority over ICANN or the domain name system; however the U.S. Government does maintain a limited authority over these entities, which experts describe as administrative and clerical. According to the Congressional Research Service, the Internet community sees the U.S. Government’s role as a “backstop,” which reassures stakeholders that the U.S Government can be a check on ICANN in the event of a crisis. Further, others have also raised concerns as to whether ICANN is capable of operating on its own following the transition. “America’s current role with respect to the domain name system serves as an important security blanket, and I believe the U.S Government should continue its current role as a guardian of Internet integrity,” said Hill. “This is why I cosponsored H.R. 5418, the Protecting Internet Freedom Act, because we need to keep the U.S. Department of Commerce in its current role over ICANN.” “At the very least, this transition should be delayed until any concerns regarding potential foreign influence are answered and the administration can ensure definitively ICANN has the ability to protect and manage Internet domains without government oversight,” said Hill. In the letter to Secretary Pritzker, the members stated: “As you may be aware, the Senate did not include language clarifying the intent of section 539 of the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (Division B of P.L. 114-113), in the short-term continuing resolution that they released on September 22. Despite the lack of clarifying language in the Senate’s proposed short-term continuing resolution, we believe that Congressional intent with regards to section 539 (in last year’s Omnibus) is clear. As Members of Congress, we expect the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) to maintain its current role with respect to Internet domain name system functions, including responsibility with respect to the authoritative root zone file and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) functions. “We urge you to take all appropriate action to ensure the continuation of NTIA’s current responsibilities before the existing contract expires on October 1. While we appreciate your assurances regarding the .mil, .gov, .edu, and .us domains, we urge you to take action this week to maintain NTIA’s current responsibilities over all Internet domain name functions. “We strongly disagree with President Obama’s plans to move forward with the IANA stewardship transition. Numerous concerns remain regarding ICANN’s readiness to enforce its own policies, address concerns raised by the Internet’s stakeholders, and resist pressure from foreign governments intent on limiting speech and the flow of information on the Internet. “The United States has always maintained responsibility for administrating the critical functions of the Internet. Maintaining this responsibility for IANA functions at NTIA will help ensure that we continue to protect the Internet from foreign governments, international organizations and bad actors. “If you had complied with the spirit of section 539 -- which President Obama signed into law – there would be no transition on October 1. Therefore, we urge you in the strongest terms to not allow the IANA functions contract to expire on October 1.” ### Signed Internet Transition Letter.pdf
09.28.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 6094, the Regulatory Relief for Small Businesses, Schools, and Nonprofits Act by a bipartisan vote of 246-177. The bill, cosponsored by Congressman French Hill (AR-02), would provide a six-month delay to the Department of Labor’s Overtime rule set to go into effect on December 1, 2016. Following passage of the bill, Congressman Hill stated: “I have heard from businesses of all sizes, nonprofits, colleges, and our cities across Arkansas about the damaging effects the rule will have on local economies. The simplest fix remains the administration abandoning the overtime rule in its current form, and working with Congress to conduct sound economic analysis to revamp the rule so that it reflects the differing needs of different industries and geographic regions in the United States. However, the administration has shown no interest in taking that action. Enacting this common-sense, bipartisan bill would provide relief for those hit hardest by this unworkable rule while providing Congress the time we need to provide an effective solution.” Related: Hill: Another Misguided Rule From the Department of Labor Hill Statement on 21 States’ Decision to Challenge Misguided Obama Overtime Rule ###
09.28.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 5303, Water Resources Development Act of 2016 (WRDA). WRDA would authorize twenty-eight important Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works projects across the country. The bill addresses the needs of America's harbors, locks, dams, flood protection, and other water-related infrastructure. The last water resources bill was enacted in 2014, and WRDA 2016 is Congress's return to the regular, biannual process of authorizing projects and activities related to our water resources. Arkansas has over 1,800 miles of inland waterways, which support thousands of jobs in Arkansas. In 2014, the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas Rivers Navigation System (MKARNS) had 11.7 million tons of commerce, totaling $4.25 billion. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “Our waterways are a key part of Arkansas’s economy. This year’s WRDA authorization ensures that we have the infrastructure to increase the volume of goods coming through our ports and continue to bring more jobs to our state. I appreciate House leadership fulfilling its commitment to reauthorizing these important programs on a biannual basis, and I will continue to work to promote fiscally responsible ideas that have a positive effect on our economic growth.” ###
09.28.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) issued the following statement on the death of former Israel President Shimon Peres: “In a part of the world full of conflict, few have done as much to promote peace and stability as Shimon Peres. Without his guidance, Israel would not be the great nation state it is today. His historic role in establishing and maintaining Israel’s sovereignty and his work to find peace between his nation and its Arab neighbors are a testament to an extraordinary man and leader.” ###
09.22.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act, introduced by Congressman Ed Royce (CA-39), by a vote of 254-163. H.R. 5931 would prohibit the United States from making cash payments to Iran or any other state sponsors of terrorism, plus North Korea, until they are no longer deemed a state sponsor of terrorism. Earlier this week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) went on Lou Dobbs Tonight to discuss the administration’s cash payment to Iran on the night the four American hostages were released. During the interview, Congressman Hill outlined major contentions from House Republicans on the issue of the payments, including questioning why the administration repeatedly defended its decision to pay in cash by citing sanctions against Iran that prevented them from being able to undergo normal banking transactions when Department of Treasury officials have admitted to using wire transfers to pay Iran in the last 14 months. “For nearly one year, the Obama Administration has misled the American people and Congress on key details related to their settlement and hostage negotiations with Iran. We saw this again last week when the State Department and Treasury officials said the payment was made in cash solely because the United States does not have a banking relationship with Iran, only to find out we have made multiple wire transfers to them in the past 14 months,” said Hill. “Today’s vote addresses these obfuscatory tactics displayed by the administration in their negotiations with the lead state sponsor of terrorism by setting out clear legal guidelines that the administration will have to follow in their dealings with Iran.” H.R. 5931 would also formally make it the policy of the United States not to pay ransom in exchange for American citizens taken hostage abroad. “Whether this was a ransom payment or not is irrelevant, and in handing over cash in exchange for these American hostages, this administration has given bad actors the impression the United States is willing to negotiate and trade money in exchange for hostages. Chairman Royce’s bill will make it clear to our enemies throughout the world the United States will not pay ransom,” said Hill.
09.21.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) went to the House Floor to speak in favor of H.R. 5461, the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act, introduced by Congressman Bruce Poliquin (ME-02). The bill would require the Secretary of the Department of Treasury to publically maintain a list estimating the “funds and assets” of senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and how those assets are employed. The bill passed the House by a vote of 282-143. During debate on the House Floor, Congressman Hill, an original cosponsor of the bill, stated: “Mr. Poliquin’s approach is simply a common-sense thing to do when you consider that this administration, six years ago, turned its back on the Iranian people when they were trying to protest their notorious regime and take to the streets. But then, instead of aiding those citizens, they turned their back on the people of Iran to negotiate with the ayatollahs on, what I believe to be, an ill-conceived, poorly designed nuclear deal. “My friend Mr. Himes from Connecticut makes the point of asset transparency and argues that this bill today would not in fact help advance the transparency of the Qods Force or the aggregation of these assets in the hands of these 80 individuals. But, if the Administration was serious about transparency, they would not give the largest state sponsor of terrorism $1.7 billion in Swiss Francs and Euros, to become an untraceable honey pot for purchase of ballistic missile components, or fund terrorism in the West Bank, or back Assad in Syria. “Representative Price from North Carolina says this act actually strengthens the hardliners, and I would argue that if this is strengthening the hardliners, then what did the JCPOA accomplish when we report a 50 percent increase in incursions from the Iranian military in our air and sea activities in the Persian Gulf? “The hardliners in Iran call the payment of $1.7 billion a ransom, not the people of the United States, and they have taken two more additional hostages as a result of this administration’s process. And if we are not strengthening the hardliners, then why is Iran doubling down on acquiring ballistic missile technology and backing the absolute destruction of Syria? “Mr. Chairman, this is a commonsense measure that will let the people of Iran see what the 80 powerful individuals are doing with the billions that have been freed up and come back to the country of Iran. Street paving is not going on, Mr. Chairman; what is going on is the expansion of terrorism and billions in untraceable money backing a regime that our own State Department and Treasury says is undiminished in their sponsor of terrorism worldwide.”
09.20.2016	Today, after 21 states, including Arkansas, filed a lawsuit against the Obama Administration’s overtime pay rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “In a long line of bad regulatory policy from the Obama Administration, the Department of Labor’s overtime rule is one of the worst. Since the rule’s inception, I have heard from businesses of all sizes, non-profits, colleges, and our cities across Arkansas about the damaging effects the rule will have on local economies and concerns over the lack of sound economic analysis and failure to carefully consider different industries and geographic regions in the United States. While Congress works to enact legislation to prevent its implementation this December, the legality of the rule has also come into question, and I fully support this collection of Attorneys General fulfilling their responsibility and taking this fight to the courts.” Related: Hill: Another Misguided Rule From the Department of Labor
09.15.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 5351, to prohibit the transfer of any individual detained at U.S. Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay (GTMO), Cuba. Just yesterday, it was reported that two more former GTMO prisoners have rejoined militant groups and are fighting against the United States, bringing to nine (9) the total of former GTMO prisoners rejoining militant groups after being released by the Obama Administration. After passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “GTMO offers our Nation a safe and secure facility for the custody of the worst perpetrators of terror. Last year, I visited this base and saw first-hand a state-of-the-art facility that enables the proper adjudication of its detainees. The president’s mission to close it down flies in the face of our national security interests, and I am glad the House has taken this bipartisan step to ensure this doesn’t happen during his presidency. The next commander-in-chief must work with Congress to better utilize GTMO so it can fulfill its purpose as an important strategic asset in the Global War on Terror.” ###
09.14.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act of 2016. H.R. 5620 is a comprehensive accountability bill that would allow the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to swiftly and fairly remove employees who are harming veterans and hurting the credibility of VA, recoup bonuses and relocation expenses from failing employees, and reduce pensions of senior executives convicted of felonies that influenced their job performance. The legislation would also increase protections for whistleblowers at VA and reform the disability benefits appeals process. After passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Plain and simple: VA remains a mess. Despite a multi-year effort from Congress and veterans service organizations to clean it up, the corruption and general lack of accountability that led to one of the largest healthcare scandals in American history still exists within the department. If VA wants to move past this low point its own history, the secretary needs the ability to swiftly remove those who care more about their own personal gain than they do about aiding our veterans. Today’s vote gives the secretary that authority, while also protecting the rights of those at VA already working to fix the department and its reputation. The Senate and president needs to follow the House’s lead by committing to principles that will restore veterans’ trust in the institution that’s charged with delivering them the care and benefits they have earned.” Related Daily Caller: VA Willing To Spend Record Sum To Get Whistleblower Out Of Agency Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: VA staff members in Little Rock altered wait times, inspectors report Arkansas Democrat-Gazette: 2 at VA in Little Rock avoided penalty until inquiries ###
09.13.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 5587, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, which reauthorizes and reforms the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act (Perkins Act). After the House passed the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “One of the great challenges of our education system today is providing students with the necessary skills to ensure successful careers. Whether it is through a four-year college, an apprenticeship, vocational school, or career and technical education (CTE), providing students with an array of options on how to best prepare for the job market is essential to creating a dependable and ready workforce. This has been a point of emphasis during my first term in Congress, as I have been working with leaders on both sides of the aisle as Co-Chair of the Congressional Investment in America’s Skilled Workforce Caucus, where we are searching for the best ideas and practices for workforce training. “Today’s bill would reauthorize the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act for the first time in more than 10 years, empowering our state and local leaders, modernizing our CTE programs for today’s jobs, and ensuring that students in Arkansas and throughout the country obtain the skills needed to find long-term, meaningful employment.” ###
09.09.2016	Today, following North Korea’s claims they successfully tested a nuclear warhead, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Despite sanctions and negotiations in the 1990’s similar to what the Iranians agreed to last year, the North Koreans continue to press forward with enhancing their nuclear program. The Obama Administration needs to commit to stopping this activity by working with the economic powers in Asia to force the North Koreans to abandon their nuclear program. Today’s nuke test serves as a canary in the Iranian uranium mine, and it should be treated as such. The president must change our passive approach in dealing with Iran to avoid a similar situation with them down the road.” ###
09.07.2016	Today, following a 20-month investigation by Congress into claims that the Justice Department was requiring banks—as part of legal settlements—to fund groups that were politically aligned with the president, the House passed H.R. 5063, the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act. H.R. 5063 would prohibit government officials from requiring payments to third-party, non-victim groups as part of settlement agreements with the federal government. After the bill passed the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), a Member of the House Financial Services Committee, stated: “Earlier this year, the Financial Services Committee uncovered settlement agreements with the U.S. Department of Justice that required defendants to direct more than $800 million to political allies of the Obama Administration. Congress holds the power of the purse, and these funds should be awarded to the victims or deposited in the Treasury and subject to the appropriations process. Today’s bill affirms Congress’s authority over these vital funds, providing transparency and accountability for the American people.” ###
09.07.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after it was reported that the United States Government transferred an additional $1.3 billion in cash to Iran after the initial hostage payment: “American diplomacy has operated from a position of strength since before the Cold War, and now for us to allow this historically aggressive regime to strong-arm us into paying a ransom is nothing short of a total failure on the part of the Obama Administration. This latest news only adds to the list of questions they need to answer about this payment. I wrote Secretary Jack Lew and Secretary John Kerry last month, seeking answers to what I believe are the most critical questions about the reports of the initial payment; unsurprisingly I received no response from the Department of Treasury or State. I am now looking forward to tomorrow’s House Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations hearing where I will once again press administration officials for answers to these important questions.” ###
09.06.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 4511, the Gold Star Families Voices Act by voice vote. H.R. 4511 would allow Gold Star Families to contribute the stories of their fallen family members to the Veterans History Project (VHP). The VHP was started in 2000 by Congress and is overseen by the Library of Congress for the purpose of cataloging the stories of war veterans. To date, Gold Star Families have not been able to give the stories of their family members who died fighting for our country. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The Veterans History Project has been a tremendous portal for keeping and archiving the stories of many of our Nation’s war heroes. Today’s vote gives us the opportunity to enhance this great program by creating a way to capture the lives of the veterans who can’t retell their own story because they gave the ultimate sacrifice in service to their country. The Veterans History Project was created for the purpose of preserving the stories of our veterans, and this change will allow it to fulfill its mission completely.” In July, Congressman Hill hosted a Veterans History Project Workshop in Little Rock, to train volunteers on how to interview veterans telling their stories for the VHP. Congressman Hill will host another workshop on October 8, 2016, from 9:00 – 11:00 AM CT at a location to be determined. ###
08.26.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will tour the Arkansas Lighthouse for the Blind in Little Rock at 9:00 AM CT on Monday, August 29, 2016. The Arkansas Lighthouse for the Blind is a local company that employs primarily blind or visually impaired workers. Congressman Hill is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Investment in America’s Skilled Workforce Caucus, a bipartisan group in Congress that promotes the work of local companies, organizations, and initiatives that either employ or help people find employment in the skilled trades. The tour of the Arkansas Lighthouse for the Blind will be an opportunity for Congressman Hill to see the valuable work being done at the facility by primarily blind or visually impaired Arkansans. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Tour of Arkansas Lighthouse for the Blind When: 9:00 AM CT, Monday, August 29, 2016 Where: Arkansas Lighthouse for the Blind, 6818 Murray St, Little Rock, AR 72209
08.19.2016	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) made the following statement after yesterday’s comments from the Department of State confirming that the $400 million cash payment to the Iranian Government was contingent on the release of four American hostages: “Yesterday’s comments from the State Department confirm what many of my colleagues and I previously asserted: the $400 million exchange with Iran was a ransom payment. After months of attempted cover-ups, President Obama’s administration has finally admitted that they directly rewarded Iran for its hostage-taking enterprise, putting a price on the head of every American. This is foreign policy gone awry, and the President and our government officials that were in charge of this exchange have much to answer for.”
08.11.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host his sixth Community Empowerment Initiative roundtable discussion in Little Rock on Monday, August 15, 2016. The Community Empowerment Initiative was created by Congressman Hill last year as a way to hear ideas from community leaders who are involved with successful upward mobility programs. Speaker of the House Paul Ryan has made alleviating poverty a major pillar of his “A Better Way” agenda. Monday’s roundtable will be a continuation of Speaker Ryan’s and Congressman Hill’s work to engage with local communities to find meaningful solutions to help Americans get out of poverty. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Community Empowerment Initiative Roundtable When: 10:00 AM CT, Monday, August 15, 2016 Where: Cox Creative Center, 120 River Market Ave, Little Rock, AR 72201
08.11.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will join representatives from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas (FHLB Dallas) and Habitat for Humanity of Central Arkansas for a “wall-raising” event and check presentation at 8:15 a.m. Friday, August 12 at 29 Purdue Circle in Little Rock, Arkansas. The media is encouraged to attend. Shalaniece Floyd, a 30-year-old single mother of two, will purchase the Habitat home with a zero percent interest loan when construction is complete. Working alongside donors and volunteers, Ms. Floyd will invest 300 sweat equity hours into her home. “I’ve long been a supporter of Habitat for Humanity and all it does to promote affordable housing in Arkansas,” said Congressman Hill, who is also a member of the House Committee on Financial Services. “It is an honor to participate in today’s wall-raising activity and to help build a home for a deserving Little Rock family.” Over the past seven years, FHLB Dallas has partnered with Bank of the Ozarks to provide $347,000 in Affordable Housing Program (AHP) grants. Of those funds, $70,000 will benefit 10 homes, including Ms. Floyd’s home. AHP grants are available annually through FHLB Dallas member institutions such as Bank of the Ozarks to assist in the development of affordable owner-occupied and rental housing for very low- to moderate-income households located across FHLB Dallas’ five-state District of Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, and Texas. This year, FHLB Dallas awarded $7.8 million in AHP grants to 27 projects that will result in 1,499 new or renovated housing units. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Habitat Wall-Raising/Check Presentation When: 8:15 AM CT, Friday, August 12, 2016 Where: 29 Purdue Circle, Little Rock, AR 72204
08.10.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) sent Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Bob McDonald a letter awarding the VA with the Golden Fleece Award for the mishandling of the $8 million solar panel project at the Little Rock VA Medical Center. Last week, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) released its report on the VA Green Management Program Solar Panel Projects. The report was completed at the request of Senator John Boozman (AR) and Congressman Hill following a 2015 news report that the Little Rock VA Medical Center tore down solar panels at the facility that had sat there for two years without ever being turned on. The Little Rock VA solar panel project cost $8 million, and the VA OIG concluded: “The Little Rock VA medical facility did not effectively plan the installation of a solar panel system. The system is not completed and is not generating solar power. The project experienced significant delays and additional contract costs due to disassembly of previously installed solar panel carport structures to accommodate a parking garage. As a result, the solar project is expected to be fully completed in January 2017, over 4 years beyond its original completion date, with unexpected costs of approximately $1.5 million.” In his letter to Secretary McDonald, Congressman Hill wrote: In June 2015, I reestablished the Golden Fleece Award and awarded the inaugural Golden Fleece to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for the mishandling of the $8 million solar panel project at the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC). Now, more than one year later, the VA Office of Inspector General (VAOIG) has released a report highlighting the mismanagement of numerous solar projects at the VA, and once again the VA is the recipient of another Golden Fleece Award. According to the recent report the Little Rock VA medical facility solar project is not expected to be fully completed until January 2017, 4 years beyond its original completion date and $1.5 million over budget. Additionally, the VAOIG report found that planning errors, design changes, a lengthy interconnection process, and contractor delays led to deficiencies in other projects throughout the country resulting in additional costs and no increase in renewable energy for solar project in the planned time frame. It is also troubling that the VA has contested the VAOIG’s comments and recommendations, especially regarding the solar panel project in Little Rock, and that the director and chief engineer during the initiation of this project have since retired and were not available for questioning. The OIG report does little to instill confidence in VA’s ability to effectively manage construction projects. Whether it is a project as complex as hospital construction or one as simple as the proper installation of solar panels, VA continues to waste large amounts of taxpayer funds as a result of its own ineptitude. Now we know that it isn’t solely a Little Rock VA problem but one that has a much larger geographic and fiscal scope than originally believed. While Congress needs to increase oversight into all VA construction activities to ensure these types of avoidable failures do not happen in the future, it is imperative that VA leadership heed the recommendations of the VAOIG. I request that you provide my office with additional details on the VA’s implementation of additional controls to prevent further mismanagement of these construction projects. I remain committed to eradicating this type of inefficient and ineffective spending and today’s Golden Fleece highlights the mismanagement of these essential taxpayer dollars. ### About the Golden Fleece Award Every year, Congress appropriates trillions of dollars to fund the federal government, and every year the federal government wastes portions of these funds in unconscionable ways. In an attempt to increase accountability for every single government program, Congressman Hill decided to bring back the Golden Fleece Award. Originally introduced by Democratic U.S. Senator from Wisconsin William Proxmire in March of 1975, the Golden Fleece Award was a monthly bulletin on the most frivolous and wasteful uses of hardworking taxpayers’ dollars. The Golden Fleece Award became a staple in the U.S. Senate during this time, and Senator Robert Byrd once stated that the awards were “as much a part of the Senate as quorum calls and filibusters.” In reviving this idea, the Golden Fleece Award will again have the opportunity to serve as an important reminder to taxpayers about the need for necessary, commonsense reforms to our federal spending. Learn more at www.hill.house.gov/goldenfleece 2016-08-10 -- Golden Fleece VA Solar Panel Projects (2).pdf
08.10.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) hosted a Tax Reform Roundtable at the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce in Little Rock with Arkansas business leaders, tax professionals, and other stakeholders to discuss House Republicans’ plan for reforming the current tax code. Earlier this summer, House Speaker Paul Ryan unveiled A Better Way, the House agenda to rebuild the economy and strengthen national security. A major component of that plan is a tax reform blueprint that outlines a simpler, fairer pro-growth tax code—one in stark contrast to the burdensome and costly tax code that exists today. “We are putting forth an aggressive agenda to grow America’s economy, and a major pillar of that is tax reform because the current tax code is a never-ending mess that has nearly tripled in size over the past 30 years,” said Congressman Hill. According to the Tax Foundation, Americans spend over $400 billion and almost $9 billion in man hours each year in order to comply with the tax code. Participants discussed a bevy of topics, including the importance of simplifying and lowering tax rates, incentivizing savings and investments, and reforming the corporate and international tax systems to make U.S. businesses more globally competitive. “Our uncompetitive corporate tax rate has driven scores of major corporations out of the United States. For America to be on a level playing field with the rest of the world, we need to create an environment where businesses of all sizes can grow,” said Hill. “The House’s plan will lower corporate rates and provide parity for all business income, as well as create an internationally competitive tax system to make America a more attractive home for companies that will have a positive impact at all levels of our economy.” The Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce has come out publicly in support of the Better Way tax reform blueprint, Randy Zook, President of the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce, said, “We wholeheartedly support this effort to reform the current tax code and applaud Congressman Hill’s efforts. This is a much-needed plan that will stimulate growth in business and create jobs in Arkansas.” The roundtable highlighted Arkansas’s diverse economy, as representatives from the agriculture, financial services, and international services industries discussed how the House Republican agenda could positively affect the economy in Arkansas. “I was pleased by the reaction to the Better Way agenda from those in attendance. Having the input of those who truly are economic drivers in our community is invaluable to me as I continue my work in Congress to grow Arkansas’s economy,” said Hill.
08.05.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) sent a letter to Department of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and Secretary of State John Kerry seeking answers from Treasury and the Department of State on questions over news reports that the Obama Administration authorized a $400 million cash payment to the Iranian Government in exchange for four American hostages. In the letter Congressman Hill, a member of the House Financial Services Committee Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation and the Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, wrote: Since the start of negotiations with Iran on an agreement regarding the future of its nuclear program, I have expressed serious concerns about this agreement’s ability to prohibit Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons capabilities and to ensure the security of the United States and our allies in the Middle East. The final agreement between Iran and the P5+1 countries, as memorialized in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), has only exacerbated these serious concerns, and I believe that the P5+1 countries were out negotiated, particularly in freeing sanctioned funds immediately and granting Iran and her affiliates immediate access to the international banking system and the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT). Further, I believe that critical issues were left off the table such as: a true strict and transparent verification process; complete dismantlement of Iran’s nuclear capacity, as promised by President Obama; freedom of all U.S. hostages; a ban on ballistic missile testing and deployment; and, payment of the $45 billion in claims for the atrocities perpetrated by Iran against American diplomats, military personnel, and dual American-Iranian citizens. Beyond the American hostages whom Iran has taken, the 1983 U.S. Marine Corps Barracks bombing in Beirut, Lebanon, which killed 241 U.S. servicemen, and the untold number of U.S. servicemen killed by Iran’s proxies during the Iraq war from 2003-2011 were all a direct result of Iran’s support for terrorism. With that being said, it is stunning that once again this Administration has demonstrated a lack of negotiating prowess and delivered another blow to U.S. taxpayers on the heels of its misguided and unnecessary purchase with taxpayer money of Iranian heavy water. The news in January 2016 that the United States delivered $1.7 billion on the day that four American hostages were released—an action that was apparently not connected with the JCPOA—and the recent Wall Street Journal report that confirmed $400 million of that sum was secretly paid in cash, including Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Euros, stretches the imagination, is utterly outrageous, and sets a dangerous precedent. Our own State Department reported in June 2016 that “Iran remained the foremost state sponsor of terrorism in 2015,”[1] and because of this cash transfer, the United States is now a direct party to Iran’s nefarious activities, which very likely will result in the killing of our troops in the field along with an unknown number of innocents. While the Iranian government certainly had the right to ask for the return of pre-1979 funds as a part of bilateral discussions, for the United States to agree to the payment, plus interest – and in cash – and for it to have been delivered when our hostages were released is beyond belief. Despite the Administration’s claims that the $1.7 billion payment was not a ransom, it was conveniently transferred on the day the hostages were freed, and we still do not know the status or whereabouts of the longest held American hostage in U.S. history, Robert Levinson. These actions have put a price on the head of every American by directly rewarding Iran for its hostage-taking enterprise. I respectfully request that you provide answers to the following questions within 30 days of the date of this letter: Where is Robert Levinson, and what is the United States doing to get him back? Why did you agree to send cash to the world’s foremost number one state sponsor of terrorism? Did Iran request cash? What was the basis for this request? Was the pre-1979 Iranian money for military equipment kept in an interest-bearing account? If yes, in what account was the money held, and at what rate did it accrue interest? If not, in what account was the money held, and what method of calculation did you use to arrive at the total of $1.7 billion? Was any portion of the $1.7 billion U.S. taxpayer funds or derived from U.S. taxpayer funds? If so, from what account did these funds come? Is the account subject to congressional appropriations? Was any portion of the $1.7 billion borrowed? If so, from whom was the money borrowed, and what are the terms and conditions? How was the $400 million cash payment assembled, namely where and by whom? How and by whom was it delivered? What U.S. laws did you use to design and craft the $400 million cash payment? Did the Administration take efforts to apprise Congress of the $400 million cash payment transaction? If so, when and how? Does current U.S. law prohibit the United States from providing dollars to Iran or facilitating foreign exchange on or offshore? What public or classified reporting obligations do you have in relation to the $400 million cash payment? Who was the lead U.S. negotiator to Iran on the $400 million cash payment? Did the President issue a finding on the $400 million cash payment, and did he directly approve the transaction? Did you directly approve the transaction? As you know, with leadership from House Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce and Rep. Pat Meehan, we have worked in Congress to ensure the payment of nearly $45 billion owed to the American victims of Iran-sponsored terror attacks. What has steps has your Department undertaken to ensure the award of these adjudicated claims? [1] U.S. Department of State, Country Reports on Terrorism 2015, June 2, 2016, at 10.
08.03.2016	Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) released its report on the VA Green Management Program Solar Panel Projects. The report was completed at the request of Senator John Boozman (AR) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) following a 2015 news report that the Little Rock VA Medical Center tore down solar panels at the facility that had sat there for two years without ever being turned on. The Little Rock VA solar panel project cost $8 million, and the VA OIG concluded: “The Little Rock VA medical facility did not effectively plan the installation of a solar panel system. The system is not completed and is not generating solar power. The project experienced significant delays and additional contract costs due to disassembly of previously installed solar panel carport structures to accommodate a parking garage. As a result, the solar project is expected to be fully completed in January 2017, over 4 years beyond its original completion date, with unexpected costs of approximately $1.5 million.” After VAOIG released its report, Congressman Hill and Senator Boozman released the following statements: “The OIG report does little to instill confidence in VA’s ability to effectively manage construction projects. Whether it is a project as complex as hospital construction or one as simple as the proper installation of solar panels, VA continues to waste large amounts of taxpayer funds as a result of its own ineptitude. Senator Boozman and I asked the OIG to investigate both the Little Rock and similar projects in order to determine the efficacy of the solar projects nationwide. Now we know that it isn’t solely a Little Rock VA problem – that cost taxpayers an additional $1.5 million – but one that has a much larger geographic and fiscal scope than originally believed. We need to increase oversight into all VA construction activities to ensure these types of avoidable failures do not happen in the future,” Hill said. “I commend the diligent work that the VAOIG’s office put into this report. The clear takeaway is that there is a lack of accountability and oversight at VA when it comes to the Green Management Program. This must change. VA’s refusal to accept the OIG’s recommendation that it conduct the proper assessments necessary to prevent future failures of this magnitude is unacceptable. Steps must be taken to ensure that resources meant to help our veterans are not squandered on wasteful projects. Congressman Hill and I are committed to ensuring that the poor management practices of the VA’s Solar Panel Projects are addressed,” Boozman said.
08.03.2016	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement in response to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) proposed changes to the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule: “Since TRID was implemented ten months ago, it has been a compliance nightmare. I am glad the CFPB ultimately came to its senses and acknowledged the problems with implementing the rule, and while this proposed update is a positive step, there are still many issues that need to be addressed. I urge them to continue to work with industry representatives and Congress to ensure that the final mortgage disclosure rule is workable for the industry and benefits consumers.” Related In October 2015, just days after CFPB began implementation of the TRID rule, the House passed H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which was introduced by Congressman Hill and would have created a temporary legal safe harbor for those making a good faith effort to comply with TRID, which would have enabled the real estate industry to more effectively navigate the transition to this new, complex closing regime. House Passes Hill's Homebuyers Assistance Act Hill: CFPB Must Provide Guidance on TRID Financial Services Committee Passes Hill's Homebuyers Assistance Act Hill Urges House Leadership to Pass TRID Bill Before New Year
07.25.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a Veterans History Project Workshop at Cox Creative Center in Little Rock at 9:00 AM CT on Saturday, July 30, 2016. The Library of Congress launched the Veterans History Project in 2000 to collect the stories of America’s veterans. The workshop will train volunteers how to interview veterans and submit the recording of their stories to the Library of Congress. After the training workshop, staff will be able to connect volunteers with veterans to interview. Anyone interested in volunteering, or veterans interested in telling their story should RSVP to Chloe Maxwell (chloe.maxwell@mail.house.gov or (501) 324-5941) or Jessica Powell (jessica.powell@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-2506). The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Veterans History Project Workshop When: 9:00 AM CT, Saturday, July 30, 2016 Where: Cox Creative Center, 120 River Market Ave, Little Rock, AR 72201 ###
07.15.2016	Today, after the House passed H.R. 5538, Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017, which grant awards for actionable funds under the Drinking Water State Revolving Loan Fund (DWSRF) to help cities and communities with lead in their drinking water address this issue. A recent report from the National Resources Defense Council, listed eight Arkansas counties for having lead in their drinking water. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “Often in the United States, we take our access to clean water for granted, but the reality remains that many Americans don’t have drinking water that meets the acceptable standard for the leading industrialized nation in the world. In Arkansas and across the country, we have seen the dangers of increased lead levels in our drinking water, and I am relieved that my colleagues in the House support efforts that will assist our communities in need as they tackle this challenge.” H.R. 5538 also contained a provision that would increase EPA Science and Technology by $3 million intended to “help provide fresh drinking water to communities that have been impacted by lead in their drinking water” and would reduce EPA Environmental Programs and Management by $3 million, and another that would eliminate the limitation that 20 percent of funds made available to each state under the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund may be used to provide subsidy for communities in which a state disaster declaration is in effect due to potential exposure to lead in drinking water.
07.14.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on the one year anniversary of the president’s nuclear agreement with Iran: “This administration has given Congress and the American people no shortage of reasons to pan their foreign policy decisions, but, in my view, the Iranian Nuclear Agreement remains the biggest foreign policy blunder of the last eight years. One year after the administration agreed to pay a king’s ransom in exchange for virtually nothing but the word of one of the world’s most dishonest actors, Iran remains an adversary of the West. Whether it’s trading and holding hostages, failing to make good on thirty-five years of claims by victims of the Mullahs murderous rampage, testing long-range ballistic missiles in violation of international law, or their designation in 2015 as the world’s number one state sponsor and financier of terrorism, Iran has made it clear they are not our allies. In short, the Iranian government continues to be an untrustworthy regime, and they dangerous to our strategic missions across the globe.” Related Video Hill: The idea that our government would obligate our tax payers or even possess an option to buy Iranian heavy water in the future is ridiculous. Hill: Terror Finance Is An important But Less Discussed Part of the War on Terror
07.13.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Today, Congressman French Hill announced mobile office hours at seven different locations across the Second Congressional District for the week of July 18. The mobile office hours will take place in the following counties; Perry, Conway, Pulaski, Faulkner, White, and Saline. Mobile office hours are an opportunity to serve constituents who can’t easily access the Congressman’s Little Rock and Conway offices. Constituents can work with staff to help resolve any issues they are having with the federal government—especially veterans in need of guidance on how to receive benefits. Below are the dates, times, and locations for the seven mobile office hours: Monday, July 18, 2016 Bigelow Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM - Bigelow Rosenwald Community Cultural Center (4233 Highway 60 E, Bigelow, AR 72016) Oppelo Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM - Oppelo City Hall (8 Municipal Drive, Oppelo, AR 72110) Tuesday, July 19, 2016 Alexander Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM - Alexander City Hall (15605 Alexander Rd, Alexander, AR 72002) Guy Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1:00 PM - 3:00 PM – Guy City Hall (405 Hwy 25 N, Guy, AR 72058) Wednesday, July 20, 2016 Damascus Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM – Damascus City Hall (17319 US-65, Damascus, AR 72039) McRae Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 1PM -3PM - McRae City Hall (115 N Grand Ave, McRae, AR 72102) Thursday, July 21, 2016 Benton Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM - Benton DHS Building (1603 Edison Ave, Benton, AR 72015)
07.08.2016	Today, after the House passed the Conference Report to accompany S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 by a vote of 407-5, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The crisis of opioid addiction affects too many of our friends, families, and communities across the country. For the 6.5 million Americans who are addicted to prescription drugs and the countless others who watch as loved ones struggle to get the treatment they need, today’s vote signals that help is on the way. Through effective education and treatment programs, we can stop the alarming trend of opioid addiction and save millions of lives.” Additional Information Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Senator John Boozman (AR) assisted the Benton Police Department in Operation Medicine Cabinet XII in April, collecting 1,245 pounds of unused prescription drugs and getting them off the street and out of the hands of potential abusers. H.R. 4063, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act, was included in the final version of the bill. This provision will help address the over-prescribing of opioids to Nation’s veterans that has led to addiction and death.
07.07.2016	Following the passage of the Senate version of the resolution recognizing the 70th anniversary of the Fulbright Program introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Senator John Boozman (AR), Congressman Hill released the below statement: “I appreciate Senator Boozman’s work to facilitate the Senate’s quick action on this legislation to honor the success of Senator Fulbright’s signature achievement in his long and storied career in public service. I look forward to the House moving our version of the resolution, and I will continue to work with leadership to ensure this happens in the near future.” Additional Information Arkansas Leaders Celebrate 70 Years of Fulbright Hill: Afghanistan's Fate Tied to the Fulbright Program Hill and Boozman Lead Efforts Recognizing 70th Anniversary of Fulbright Program ### About the Fulbright Program Established in 1946 by then-Arkansas U.S. Senator J. William Fulbright, this exceptionally American contribution to the world has educated over 360,000 students from 165 countries, including 52 Nobel Laureates and 31 heads of state.
07.06.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, by a vote of 422-2. H.R. 2646, sponsored by Rep. Tim Murphy (PA-18), is a comprehensive mental health care reform bill that seeks to modernize and improve the outdated mental health care system by refocusing and reconfiguring mental health programs, clarifying privacy laws to ensure health care professionals can communicate to caregivers, and addressing the shortages in our mental health workforce and treatment facilities to ensure patients have access to the services they need. After H.R. 2646 passed the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), a cosponsor of the bill, released the following statement: “This exceptionally bipartisan effort from Congress will go a long way in correcting a problem that has disrupted too many families, caused too much violence and pain, and cost far too many lives. Retooling the way we deliver mental health care by giving families a greater voice in seeking care for their loved ones and addressing the shortage of services and mental health care professionals can’t be delayed. The nearly ten million people who suffer from severe mental illness need our help, and I am proud of our efforts this Congress.” ### Watch: Our nation's mental health system has failed...but where there's help there's hope
07.06.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced The Shift Back to Society Act, which would help those who have been incarcerated transition back into society and find meaningful employment. The bill would establish a pilot program to provide grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) to implement educational programs for eligible offenders and help them successfully transition back into their communities. The legislation would allocate $5 million per year for the program, would require no additional funding, and ensures that funds already appropriated for the Department of Justice would be used to support the program. Following introduction of the bill, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “The United States currently spends $34,000 per year per inmate, a tab that is picked up by the taxpayer, and a number that is greatly affected by reoffenders. This legislation would help create a transition phase for inmates to gain academic and spiritual development and would encourage them to continue in their education at an HBCU after their release. Most importantly, it would address the problem of recidivism by encouraging hard work and opening up opportunities that can lead to employment. Any American in good standing with the law, regardless of previous offenses, deserves the opportunity to improve their own lives through the dignity of a job, while playing a role in the betterment of our society as a whole.” ### Letters of Support LetterForShiftBackToSociety_0.pdf Philander Smith College's Shift Back to Society Act Letter_1.pdf
06.28.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – The following events on Congressman French Hill’s (AR-02) schedule for Thursday June 30, 2016 are open to the press: HubX-Life Sciences Demo Day 1:00 PM CT AR Regional Innovation Hub, 201 E. Broadway, North Little Rock, AR 72114 *SCIF Tour at Little Rock Air Force Base with Congressman Will Hurd 2:30-3:30 PM CT 940 Arnold Drive Jacksonville, AR 72099 *Cyber Ops Tour at The Lavern E. Weber Professional Education Center (PEC) at Camp Robinson with Congressman Will Hurd 4:00-5:00 PM CT PEC, Camp Robinson, North Little Rock, AR 72115 *Media will not be able to attend the tour portion, but there will be availability at the main gate following the tour.
06.28.2016	The office of Congressman French Hill (AR-02) is looking for fall interns in his Washington, Little Rock, Arkansas, and Conway, Arkansas, offices. Interns will work in a fast-paced congressional office, gaining valuable exposure and knowledge of the legislative process and the U.S. Congress. Washington DC Intern Responsibilities Include greeting constituents, answering constituent phone calls, opening and sorting mail, guiding Capitol building tours, and assisting staff with administrative tasks. Interns also will have the opportunity to conduct legislative research and assist with correspondence, as well as attend Capitol Hill briefings, congressional hearings, and press events. Social media and other communications experience a plus. District Office Intern Responsibilities Include answering phones, organizing, distributing, and inputting mail, assisting staff with casework and constituent outreach. Qualified individuals will display strong writing skills and attention to detail. Applicants should have working knowledge of current events and policy topics as well as a willingness to assist with daily office tasks. Those interested please send resume and cover letter to ar02.applications@mail.house.gov.
06.25.2016	WASHINGTON – After Speaker Paul Ryan announced the House’s agenda for tax reform, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement:.. share: f t After Speaker Paul Ryan announced the House’s agenda for tax reform, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The current tax code does not work for the taxpayer. It’s complex and burdensome, and it makes zero sense. Even worse, it harms our goal of real economic growth. It is no mystery that we are living through the worst period of economic recovery since World War II, and government needs to do its part to create an environment where businesses of all sizes can thrive. The American people want a tax code that not only is fair and simple, but also will spur economic development and growth. There is a lot of work to do to make this is a reality, but I am excited to join my House colleagues in crafting a worthy replacement for our broken tax code.”
06.24.2016	Today, Senator Dean Heller (NV) and Senator Gary Peters (MI) introduced a companion bill to Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman John Carney’s (DE-At Large) H.R. 5019, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act of 2016. In April, H.R. 5019 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 411-6. The bill would address anomalies in securities laws and regulations that discourage broker-dealers from publishing research on exchange traded funds (ETFs) by directing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide a safe harbor for research reports that cover ETFs. In recent decades, the popularity of ETFs has risen drastically, and along with their growth, ETFs have also become more complicated and require more analysis. After the Senate version was introduced today, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “Since starting my most recent investment firm in the late 1990s, I have seen ETFs grow from about 100 funds with $100 billion in assets to over 1,400 funds with nearly $2 trillion in assets. This rapidly growing, but complex market would greatly benefit from more research and information. I am an advocate for promoting capital formation, removing unnecessary burdens, and improving investor access to information, and this bill fulfills all of these concepts. I appreciate Senator Heller and Senator Peters introducing this bill in the Senate, and I strongly encourage Senate Leadership to bring it up for a vote.” See Also: Hill and Carney Investment Research Bill Passes House House overwhelmingly approves bill to expand distribution of ETF research
06.24.2016	Today Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement in response to the United Kingdom’s vote to leave the European Union: “I respect the United Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union. If the people feel this is in the best long-term interest of their nation, then Americans should support their desire to maintain their sovereignty. Both the United Kingdom and the European Union are, and will remain, crucial partners of the United States.”
06.23.2016	Today, after the Supreme Court’s decision to remand President Obama’s executive action on immigration back to the lower courts, which already issued an injunction against the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after the Supreme Court’s decision to remand President Obama’s executive action on immigration back to the lower courts, which already issued an injunction against the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) program, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “In my view, the Court’s most fundamental responsibility is protecting the Separation of Powers prescribed by the Constitution. The president’s maneuver to bypass Congress in order to create a class of over four million new residents is not exercising prosecutorial discretion, it's legislating in direct violation of the Constitution. The Court’s decision today to uphold the rule of law provides a reminder to an administration who often feels that it is above the Constitution, that, in fact, it is not.” ###
06.21.2016	U.S. Senator John Boozman and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced resolutions recognizing the 70th anniversary of the Fulbright Program, the United States’ flagship educational exchange established by former Arkansas Senator J. William Fulbright. “Senator Fulbright’s vision for connecting our world through education is an important diplomatic tool. The Fulbright program creates a better understanding of different cultures and ideals while promoting peace and higher education. Today, as violence and intolerance grows across the globe, I believe the Fulbright program remains a beacon of hope for a better future,” Boozman said. “Senator Fulbright’s name has been engraved in Arkansas history and his work has had a mighty impact on the lives of countless youth and professors throughout the world. Over the past year, I have had the good fortune to meet with Fulbright Scholars from many different countries, each offering their own unique and inspiring story that was made possible by the legacy of Senator Fulbright. As an Arkansan, I am proud of this extraordinary contribution to the international community, and I am honored to be able to celebrate its global impact by introducing this resolution with Senator Boozman,” Hill said. On Aug. 1, 1946, President Harry Truman signed Fulbright’s legislation into law creating this international exchange program designed to increase mutual understanding between the people of the U.S. and other countries. The Fulbright Program has educated more than 370,000 students from 165 countries, including 54 Nobel Laureates and 33 heads of state. The Senate resolution is cosponsored by Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-VT). House cosponsors include the entire Arkansas House Congressional Delegation Representatives Rick Crawford (R-AR), Steve Womack (R-AR), Bruce Westerman (R-AR) and Tom Cole (R-OK), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Charles Rangel (D-NY) and Mark Takai (D-HI). See Also: Congressman Hill: Afghanistan's fate tied to Fulbright Video: Hill Celebrates Fulbright 70th with Tree Planting on Capitol Grounds
06.16.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 5505, the GSE Review and Reform Act.... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 5505, the GSE Review and Reform Act. H.R. 5505 would require the U.S. Treasury Department to study ending the conservatorship of the Government Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs) Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac on an annual basis. Despite being at the center of the 2008 financial crisis and requiring a nearly $200 billion bailout from American taxpayers, the Dodd-Frank Act failed to address the root cause of the crisis—a failed housing policy. Other than a 2011 study, the administration has had little engagement with Congress on a path toward ending this eight-year-long conservatorship and reforming our broken housing finance system. “There has been no progress toward moving these federally dependent GSEs out of the conservatorship. My bill would force Treasury to study this issue and present its recommendations to Congress at least once a year, creating engagement on the best path forward on housing finance reform to end taxpayer exposure and ensure access to mortgage credit for Americans,” said Hill. Related Wall Street Journal: FHFA IG Reports Fannie Mae Construction Costs pose a “significant financial and reputation risk” HILLAR_039_xml.pdf
06.14.2016	– Today, after Speaker Paul Ryan announced the House’s to plan to grow the economy and reduce regulatory burdens, which included the framework of House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling’s.... share: f t Today, after Speaker Paul Ryan announced the House’s to plan to grow the economy and reduce regulatory burdens, which included the framework of House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling’s Financial CHOICE Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “It has been almost six years since Dodd-Frank was passed, but we are just now experiencing the negative effects of its implementation. We are still experiencing the slowest period of economic recovery since World War II. Chairman Hensarling is putting forward a thoughtful plan to fundamentally reform the Nation’s financial system to remove unnecessary regulatory burdens that hurt consumers, strengthens access to capital and capital markets, and creates solutions for economic growth and job creation, while ending ‘too-big-to-fail’ and taxpayer bailouts, and holding Washington and Wall Street accountable. I look forward to working with the Committee to loosen the grip of bad laws and regulations that are hurting the market, killing jobs, and stunting economic growth.” ###
06.09.2016	Today, after the House passed H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA), Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “If allowed to continue down the current path, the fiscal and humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico will worsen. While preventing a taxpayer-funded bailout for Puerto Rico, today’s bill also sets the legal framework to enact necessary economic and budgetary reforms and avoid financial collapse. This was the same successful strategy used to correct the fiscal crisis faced by the District of Columbia in the 1990s. Taxpayers should never be forced to bailout any state, local, or territory government from debt that has been caused by mismanagement and ineffective policies, and it is critical that the government of Puerto Rico take this opportunity provided by Congress to fix the lingering problems that have hindered its economy and caused this debt crisis.” ###
06.09.2016	Today, after Speaker Paul Ryan announced the House’s new national security platform, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “We have endured eight years of drifting and feckless foreign policy objectives that have been insufficient in ensuring victory in the ongoing War on Terror. Because the administration won’t lead on this issue, Congress has stepped up to offer solutions that can keep our enemies at bay and the American people safe. Winning the War on Terror will take a more comprehensive approach than just boots on the ground, and as a member of the House Financial Services Committee’s Task Force to Investigate Terrorism Financing, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to find ways to identify and destroy the sources of funding to organizations who are sworn enemies of liberty and democracy.” See Also: Rep. Hill’s op-ed on winning the war on terror in Newsmax
06.08.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced the “Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) Return to Work Act.” The bill will reform SSDI by modernizing the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) classification of disability beneficiaries and incentivizing returning to work for beneficiaries who have recovered. According to the Congressional Research Service, many disability insurance beneficiaries will never re-enter the workforce, and, in 2013, only 0.4 percent of all beneficiaries were removed from disability rolls due to employment. Between 1981 and 2013, the employment rate among working-age individuals with work-limiting disabilities fell nearly in half, from 24.4 percent to 14.4 percent. "These reforms to SSDI would help keep the program solvent and its benefits available to those who need them. The goal is to develop effective and innovative projects that will incentivize and assist people that want to get off of the rolls and back to work,” said Hill. “SSDI was developed to be a safety net for those who suffer from a permanent, debilitating disability and to provide temporary assistance for those with a recoverable illness or disability while they heal, but today some working-age individuals use it as a welfare and retirement program.” Senator Tom Cotton (AR) and Senator Mike Lee (UT) introduced mirror legislation in the Senate today. “I am pleased to join Senators Cotton and Lee on this important legislation that will give the Social Security Administration better guidelines to apply an efficient, consistent, and accurate disability determination. Too many of our federal programs are using outdated metrics to determine eligibility. We need to continue our work in reforming and evolving these programs so that they can remain available for those who rely on them,” said Hill. ###
06.08.2016	Today, after Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to a joint-session of Congress, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “In central Arkansas, we are fortunate to have a strong Indian community that is comprised of great members of our professional and business communities and who work diligently to promote economic and cultural ties between India and the United States. I was delighted that my friend and local Little Rock business and civic leader, Shash Goyal, was able to join me today to hear Prime Minister Modi deliver his remarks to Congress. As the head of our largest democratic partner in the world, Prime Minister Modi is a key ally of the United States. I was encouraged by his understanding and belief that our two nations must build upon our shared values, our economic partnership, and our strategic national security needs to grow democracy throughout the world.” Additional Information: Congressman Hill is a member of Congressional Caucus on India and Indian-Americans. ###
06.07.2016	Today, after Speaker Paul Ryan announced his plan for fighting poverty in this Congress, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after Speaker Paul Ryan announced his plan for fighting poverty in this Congress, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “I appreciate the work of Speaker Ryan to develop a plan to tackle an issue that has plagued our Nation for far too long. This policy agenda focuses on empowering those on the front lines of this fight with the goal of giving all of our citizens a better future. I look forward to working with the speaker and continuing my efforts with the Community Empowerment Initiative (CEI) in my home district in Arkansas. Our shared vision recognizes the importance of community engagement in the revitalization of our most embattled neighborhoods.” ###
05.27.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) traveled throughout the Second Congressional District to promote jobs and opportunities in the skilled trades, stopping at Arkansas State University at Beebe’s John Deere Agriculture Technology program, the Be Pro Be Proud Initiative through the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce at Maverick Transportation, and Dassault Falcon Jet.... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) traveled throughout the Second Congressional District to promote jobs and opportunities in the skilled trades, stopping at Arkansas State University at Beebe’s John Deere Agriculture Technology program, the Be Pro Be Proud Initiative through the Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce at Maverick Transportation, and Dassault Falcon Jet. Lawrence created the Skilled Workforce Caucus last year, and Hill has served as Co-Chair since its inception. A major byproduct of the caucus has been the Skilled Workforce Initiative, where members travel to each other’s districts to not only discuss jobs and training, but also to get hands on experience with skilled workforce jobs. “In central Arkansas, and in a lot of places throughout the country, we desperately want job growth. As a legislator I am always thinking about policy areas to help spur economic growth, but the work of our caucus provides another avenue for making a difference,” said Hill. “Sometimes just engaging with communities, educators, and students on a regular basis can be the most effective tool for creating job growth.” Lawrence’s visit to Arkansas was part of the Skilled Workforce Initiative, and was the second time the two members have traveled together to promote skilled workforce training and jobs. Last October, Hill visited Detroit for a similar trip. “I was pleased to join Congressman French Hill in Arkansas for the Skilled Workforce Initiative. This has been an amazing opportunity and I am proud of the investment these companies are making here in our country. In America, we must embrace and support industry as it is the heartbeat of our economy,” said Lawrence. “It is important that we introduce opportunities within the workforce to our children at an early age. We must continue to educate, nurture and embrace the development of skillsets that lead to jobs.” The two met with educators at ASU-Beebe’s John Deere Ag Tech program this morning, before visiting Maverick Transportation and Dassault Falcon Jet in the afternoon. At Maverick Transportation, through the Be Pro Be Proud Initiative, Hill and Lawrence received hands-on training with welding and truck driving simulators. “In our state we are very fortunate to have some of the best training facilities and job opportunities for skilled trades in the entire country; the John Deer Ag Tech program at ASU Beebe, the simulators at Maverick Transportation, and the aspirational careers at companies like Dassault provide a remarkable snapshot into the positive economic impact skilled trades can have,” said Hill.
05.27.2016	The U.S. Senate passed legislation Thursday designating a Perryville, Arkansas Post Office as the “Harold George Bennett Post Office.” Sergeant George Bennett, a native of Thornburg, Arkansas served as a Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV) advisor during the war operating out of South Vietnam. On December 29, 1964, during a firefight with Viet Cong guerillas, Sgt. Bennett was taken prisoner. Sgt. Bennett was the first American POW killed in Vietnam. He spent 179 days as a POW and after his third attempted escape, he was executed by his captors on June 25, 1965. U.S. Senator John Boozman and Congressman French Hill led efforts to honor Sgt. Bennett. “Sergeant Bennett’s story of courage, patriotism and sacrifice should be preserved for future generations. This recognition is important to the community he called home and a tribute to our nation’s appreciation for his selfless service,” Boozman said. “I can think of no better time to honor the life of one of Arkansas’s great war heroes than Memorial Day Weekend. I want to thank Senator Boozman for moving this bill swiftly through the Senate, and I look forward to the President signing it into law so that Sergeant Harold George Bennett can receive the lasting tribute he deserves for his brave service to our great Nation,” Hill said. The House of Representatives passed this legislation in April. It will head to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
05.25.2016	LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – On Friday, May 27, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) will travel throughout the Second Congressional District to promote jobs and opportunities in the skilled trades. Congressman Hill and Congresswoman Lawrence are co-chairs of the Skilled Workforce Caucus, a bipartisan group that is committed to shrinking the “skills gap” by supporting the development of the skilled trades throughout the entire country. Last October, Congressman Hill traveled to Congresswoman Lawrence’s district to visit with companies, organizations, and employees in Detroit that are directly tied to work in the skilled trades. The visits on Friday will highlight not just opportunities for training in the skilled workforce in central Arkansas, but also the types of aspirational careers that can be obtained without having a traditional four-year college degree. The following events are open to the press: Friday, May 27, 2016 Arkansas State University at Beebe John Deere Agriculture Technology 9:30AM-10:30AM 1000 Iowa Street, Beebe, AR 72012 Maverick Transportation 11:00AM-12:00PM 13301 Valentine Road, North Little Rock, AR 72117 Dassault Falcon Jet 2:00PM-3:30PM 3801 E. 10th Street, Little Rock, AR 72202
05.24.2016	Today, after the Arkansas Insurance Department released insurance rate requests for 2017, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The president promised the American people that through Obamacare healthcare would become more affordable to them. However, today’s announcement of rising insurance rates in Arkansas is another example of the misconception that costs can be lower when consumer choice is non-existent. I support our state’s efforts to provide Arkansans with quality and affordable healthcare options, but we are facing an uphill battle because of Obamacare. The next president must work with Congress—which overwhelmingly supports repealing and replacing the current law—to put forth an innovative, patient-centered healthcare plan that is both accessible and affordable for the American people.” ###
05.24.2016	Today, after returning from a two-day assessment of the U.S.-Mexico Border in San Diego, CA, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “This was my third visit to the Southwest Border in the past year, and it was the most eye-opening of the three by far. I appreciate the difficult job that local law enforcement and our customs and border patrol officers have, but from my visits and discussions it is obvious that there are serious deficiencies in our ability to control the flow of people and narcotics coming into our country. I have spoken with countless Arkansans who have made it clear that securing our homeland is one of—if not the greatest—issue facing this Nation. Seeing firsthand the obstacles in securing our border and hearing from those on the frontlines are invaluable to me in my role as a Member of Congress working to design solutions to this continuing crisis. “As I have said since my visit to Laredo, TX, last spring, a wall is a useful tool in regaining control of what is occurring in populated areas on our border, but we need a more comprehensive approach that utilizes all technologies and manpower at our disposal to provide us with the maximum amount of security along the length of the diverse topography and demography of the entire border.” ###
05.19.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 4974, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017. H.R. 4974 contained a provision that prohibits funding solar panel projects under the Green Management Program. Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spoke on the House Floor Wednesday night in support of this provision. Last year, Congressman Hill and Senator John Boozman (AR) requested a Department of Veterans Affair Office of Inspector General report (VAOIG) into the failed solar panel construction project at the Little Rock VA Medical Center. Following passage of H.R. 4974, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “This appropriations bill will give the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) an increase in the resources it needs to care for our veterans. I am particularly pleased with the funding to move toward a paperless and more efficient processing system for disability claims. Our wounded and injured veterans should not have to wait months and years to receive the compensation they deserve for their service. “While this bill does contain important provisions to increase congressional oversight over VA dollars—like eliminating bonus pay for poorly-performing VA executives and provisions to prevent cost overruns on construction projects—that oversight will not be as effective as it needs to be until the Senate moves the VA Accountability Act of 2016. Employees who do not act in the best interest of the veteran need to be removed from the system, and I urge the Chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee to pass this bill through Committee.” Related Committee on Appropriations: What the Bill Does Rep. French Hill seeking answers on VA Hospital solar panels
05.18.2016	Today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2017 by a bipartisan vote of 277-147. The NDAA will provide $610.5 billion total in funding for national defense priorities, with $566.5 billion in base funding, and an additional $35.7 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations... share: f t Today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2017 by a bipartisan vote of 277-147. The NDAA will provide $610.5 billion total in funding for national defense priorities, with $566.5 billion in base funding, and an additional $35.7 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. “Finding consensus can be a hard fight in Congress, but for the 55th straight year, Republicans and Democrats have come together to fund our military at the levels they need to complete their strategic missions throughout the globe,” said Congressman French Hill (AR-02). This year’s NDAA will increase troop levels, give a deserved pay raise for all servicemembers above the levels requested by the president, and will simplify TRICARE options to better fit the health care needs of our military. It will also authorize the modernization of our C-130 Hercules fleet, which is the backbone of our Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard airlifters at Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB). “LRAFB has been a center for excellence for a long time, and modernizing their planes will guarantee these planes remain a critical part of our national security for years to come,” said Hill. President Obama has threatened to veto the NDAA, the veto threat was primarily over restrictions placed against transferring detainees from Guantanamo Bay (GTMO). In September of last year, Congressman Hill went to GTMO as part of a CODEL visit to assess GTMO’s facilities and operations. “In my view, GTMO offers our Nation a safe and secure facility for the custody of perpetrators of terror including ruthless killers, bomb makers, the bomber of the USS Cole, and the 9/11 Five,” said Hill after returning from GTMO. “Further, we have invested in state-of-the-art secure courtroom facilities that enable the proper adjudication of the detainees by military commission. GTMO remains a key national intelligence resource.” The president campaigned in 2008 on the promise of shutting down GTMO, a move that has been repeatedly blocked by Congress, “closing GTMO is not in the best interest of the American people. President Obama’s insistence on closing it shows a commander-in-chief who is not committed to using all the tools at our disposal to defeat an enemy that is determined to harm us and our allies throughout the world,” said Hill. “I strongly urge the president to reconsider his veto threat and use this authorization towards winning the Global War on Terror.” ###
05.18.2016	Today, after the Department of Labor finalized its overtime rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The Obama Administration’s decision to move forward with this rule ignores the more than 250,000 comments submitted to the agency that outline the costly impacts of this overly-burdensome regulation on our nation’s small businesses, cities, towns, universities, and non-profit organizations. I support Congress acting to prevent the implementation of this ill-advised rule and working to provide the modernization of the overtime rule that respects regional differences within the United States, promotes flexibility in the workplace, and allows for career advancement for hardworking Americans.” Related Hill Gives Golden Fleece to DOL for Overtime Rule Hill: Another Misguided Rule From the Department of Labor
05.16.2016	Addressing more than 250 attendees Monday during the American Land Title Association (ALTA) 2016 Federal Conference & Lobby Day in Washington, D.C., Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stressed that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) should provide additional formal guidance to help industry comply with the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID), or the Know Before You Owe, rule. Specifically, Congressman Hill urged CFPB to correct the inaccurate disclosure of title insurance fees when policies are issued simultaneously. Because of the regulation, consumers in over half of the United States receive confusing information about their title insurance costs on the new mortgage disclosures. “Informal guidance is of no value,” Congressman Hill said. “The lack of formal direction from the CFPB has resulted in uncertainty on how to interpret the rules. We need transparency so we can ensure consumers receive the peace of mind they deserve when buying a home or refinancing a mortgage. The CFPB needs to make sure it provides the detail before going retail with Know Before You Owe.” Last year, Congressman Hill, House Financial Services Committee leadership, and industry representatives cautioned CFPB that Know Before You Owe could have unintended negative consequences on homebuyers. Prior to the rule going into effect, Congressman Hill introduced H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which would have created an official hold-harmless period for companies making good-faith efforts to comply with the regulation. In October, the House of Representatives passed the bill by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 303-121. After seven months of ineffective implementation, CFPB earlier this month announced plans to reopen the rulemaking for Know Before You Owe later this summer. “ALTA’s primary goal for the CFPB’s proposed new rulemaking to Know Before You Owe this July is ensuring consumers receive clear information about their title insurance costs on mortgage disclosures,” said Michelle Korsmo, ALTA’s chief executive officer. “The current mortgage closing disclosure calculation is inconsistent with the Bureau’s mission to inform consumers about the true costs of their real estate transaction. We are thankful for Rep. Hill’s commitment to push the Bureau to provide more clarity on TRID to make sure the rule is transparent, practical, and accurate.”
05.13.2016	At 11:00 AM CT, on Sunday, May 15, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will attend IndiaFest 2016 at the River Market Pavilion in Little Rock... share: f t LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – At 11:00 AM CT, on Sunday, May 15, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will attend IndiaFest 2016 at the River Market Pavilion in Little Rock. Per IndiaFest’s website, “IndiaFest will attempt to bridge cultures, generations and communities through one-day of togetherness. It is a day when visitors will be encouraged to participate in a thematic display of the rich culture and diversity of two of the greatest nations on earth – India and the USA.” Who: Congressman French Hill What: IndiaFest 2016 When: 11:00 AM CT, Sunday, May 15, 2016 Where: River Market Pavilion, 400 President Clinton, Ave #200, Little Rock, AR 72201 ###
05.13.2016	This week, the House of Representatives passed eighteen bills to address the rash of opioid addictions plaguing communities throughout America. There are an estimated 6.5 million prescription drug abusers, with 44 dying every day as a result of prescription painkiller overdoses... share: f t This week, the House of Representatives passed eighteen bills to address the rash of opioid addictions plaguing communities throughout America. There are an estimated 6.5 million prescription drug abusers, with 44 dying every day as a result of prescription painkiller overdoses. Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Senator John Boozman (AR) also recently assisted the Benton Police Department in Operation Medicine Cabinet XII, collecting 1,245 pounds of unused prescription drugs and getting them off the street and out of the hands of potential abusers. Following this week’s legislative activity to combat opioid addiction, Congressman Hill released the below statement: “The ongoing overdose crisis in the United States causes the death of tens of thousands of Americans each year. It is critical that we act now to avert these tragedies and provide effective treatment to those with addiction. This week, the House took important steps to address the epidemic of opioid addiction and overdose and help Americans reclaim their lives from this horrible affliction. “This is some of the most important work we will do this year, and I am particularly proud to have supported H.R. 4063, the Jason Simcakoski PROMISE Act. This bill will help address the over-prescribing of opioids to our nation’s veterans that has led to addiction and death. “I will continue to work with our communities and law enforcement to raise awareness of the dangers of prescription drug abuse and support effective education and treatment programs to curb this alarming trend not just for our veterans, but for all Americans who struggle with opioid addiction.”
05.12.2016	After a federal district judge ruled in House v. Burwell that the administration unlawfully funded portions of Obamacare, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t After a federal district judge ruled in House v. Burwell that the administration unlawfully funded portions of Obamacare, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “On behalf of the entire House, then-Speaker Boehner filed suit against the administration for exceeding its authority in funding parts of the president’s healthcare law without an appropriation from Congress. The court’s decision today reinforces one of the key components of our entire democracy—our system of checks and balances. “We need innovative, patient-centered healthcare reform. This should be a wakeup call to Democrats in Washington that not only is Obamacare a disaster that has raised costs and decreased access to healthcare for many hardworking American families, it is also unlawful, and now is the time to work together on real reform.” ###
05.06.2016	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spent this week visiting local small businesses throughout the Second Congressional District as part of Small Business Week.... share: f t LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spent this week visiting local small businesses throughout the Second Congressional District as part of Small Business Week. “Small Business Week is a great time to celebrate how important small businesses are to our local economy, while reminding consumers to think locally when it comes to paying for goods and services,” said Hill. “As someone who spent the majority of my professional life in community banking in central Arkansas, I have worked with many of our small businesses to help them get the capital they need to grow and expand their operations. These are some of the hardest working people in our community. I look forward to continuing to fight for better policies that encourage, instead of frustrate small business owners and workers. That's how we will achieve faster economic growth.” ###
05.05.2016	Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced this week that J.R. Landers of Vilonia High School was this year’s winner of the Congressional Art Competition for the Second Congressional District. “We had over one hundred submissions from across the entire district. Seeing the talents of so many young students in central Arkansas is inspiring, and I encourage all of them to continue to gift our community with their passion for art,” Hill said. “I look forward to being reminded of this every time I walk to the Capitol and see J.R.’s submission hanging in the hallway.” This year’s competition also featured a Fan Favorite Award, which was determined by the submission that received the most number of “likes” on Congressman Hill’s Facebook page. The winner of the Fan Favorite Award was Kylie Beaty, also of Vilonia High School, whose artwork “Spectrum” received 191 likes. “Spectrum” will be hung in Congressman Hill’s Little Rock District Office for the coming year. Below are the top three submissions from this year’s competition: 1st Place: “Overcoming Darkness” by J.R. Landers (Vilonia High School) 2nd Place: “Misha Collins” by Meredith Muller (Mount St. Mary’s High School) 3rd Place: “First Touch” by Kelsey Claybrook (Episcopal Collegiate School) ###
05.03.2016	This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will be traveling to local high schools to present students with Educational Achievement Awards... share: f t LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will be traveling to local high schools to present students with Educational Achievement Awards. Instituted by Congressman Hill, the Educational Achievement Award is designed to recognize those students who have shown strong commitment to high academic achievement, the school and the community. Forty-one students are receiving the award from twenty-three different high schools throughout the district. Congressman Hill will present the awards at the following events this week (all events are open to the press): Wednesday, May 4, 2016 Harmony Grove High School Award Presentation 8:40 AM CT - 2621 AR-229, Benton, AR 72015 Benton High School Award Presentation 9:15 AM CT - 211 N Border St, Benton, AR 72015 Thursday, May 5, 2016 White County Central High School Award Presentation 9:15 AM CT - 3259 AR 157, Judsonia, AR 72081 Vilonia High School Award Presentation 10:20 AM CT - 1164 Main St, Vilonia, AR 72173 Educational Achievement Reception 5:30 PM CT - SDT Hospitality Room, Mount St. Mary, 3224 Kavanaugh Blvd, Little Rock, AR 72205 Friday, May 6, 2016 Greenbrier HS Award Presentation 1:00 PM CT - 72 Green Valley Drive, Greenbrier, AR 72058 ###
05.02.2016	At 5:30 PM CT, on Tuesday, May 3, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a reception recognizing the winners and participants of the Congressional Art Competition at the Historic Arkansas Museum.... share: f t LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – At 5:30 PM CT, on Tuesday, May 3, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a reception recognizing the winners and participants of the Congressional Art Competition at the Historic Arkansas Museum. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition sponsored by the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The contest is open to all high school students in the Second Congressional District, and the winning artwork is displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol. Over eighty pieces were submitted this year, and they can all be viewed on Facebook as part of the first ever “Fan Favorite” selection. The Fan Favorite selection gives Facebook followers and constituents an opportunity to vote for their favorite submission. The winner is determined by the number of “likes” and will be hung in Congressman Hill’s Little Rock District Office for one year. The following is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Congressional Art Competition Reception When: 5:30 PM CT, Tuesday, May 3, 2016 Where: Historic Arkansas Museum, 200 E. Third Street, Little Rock, AR 72201
05.02.2016	At 1:30 PM CT, on Tuesday, May 3, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will present a Purple Heart to Edsel Smith, a Marine veteran who served in both World War II and the Korean War... share: f t LITTLE ROCK, Ark. – At 1:30 PM CT, on Tuesday, May 3, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will present a Purple Heart to Edsel Smith, a Marine veteran who served in both World War II and the Korean War. Mr. Smith was wounded in Korea during the campaign to take the Chosin Reservoir. Mr. Smith describes running out of ammunition while machine gun fire was hitting all around him. Although he was shot in the leg, he did not realize that he was bleeding until later that night due the extreme cold freezing the blood and sealing the wound. As his division was pulling back, Mr. Smith went to an aid station where a medic treated his wound and recommended him for the Purple Heart, but Mr. Smith never received that Purple Heart. This is mostly due to the fact that when he returned to Pusan five days later, he was sent to sick call, but never actually made inside the room because, as he puts it, “there were boys there that were a lot worse off than me, and I could smell bacon and eggs coming from the chow hall, so I went and had bacon and eggs.” After returning home from combat, Mr. Smith worked as an engineer for several radio and TV stations, including Channel 4 and Channel 7 in Little Rock. The following event will take place at the Old Supreme Court Chamber in the State Capitol and will be open to the press: Who: Edsel Smith and Congressman French Hill What: Purple Heart Ceremony for Edsel Smith When: 1:30 PM CT, Tuesday, May 3, 2016 Where: Old Supreme Court Chamber, State Capitol, Little Rock, AR ###
04.29.2016	Today, following the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) announcement that Margie A. Scott, M.D., will be the new permanent Director of the Central Arkansas Veterans Health Care System (CAVHS), Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement... share: f t Today, following the Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) announcement that Margie A. Scott, M.D., will be the new permanent Director of the Central Arkansas Veterans Health Care System (CAVHS), Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement: “In the fifteen months I have been in Congress, our local VA healthcare system has seen temporary director after temporary director, all the while, problem after problem after problem has persisted. The first step towards VA regaining the trust of the veteran and the taxpayer is through permanent leadership that puts in place a long-term plan to provide the very best care for our veterans. While the decision took entirely too long, I am glad we now have a director to hold accountable and our local veterans have a little more certainty with respect to the care they have earned and deserve.” Related Hill to VA Sec: Give Arkansas Veterans Certainty Hill to ADG: Removing bad actors from VA is simple
04.28.2016	Today, following the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) decision to reopen rulemaking on the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement.... share: f t Today, following the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) decision to reopen rulemaking on the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement: “I am glad Director Cordray acknowledges the problems with implementing TRID, but it should not have taken 7 months to do so. Implementation issues were not unforeseen, which is why the House overwhelmingly passed my bill, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, last October. I remain committed to ensuring CFPB works with the real estate industry to provide much-needed guidance it can rely on to best serve those hoping to achieve the American dream of home ownership.” Related House Passes Hill's Homebuyers Assistance Act Hill: CFPB Must Provide Guidance on TRID Financial Services Committee Passes Hill's Homebuyers Assistance Act Hill Urges House Leadership to Pass TRID Bill Before New Year
04.28.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res. 88, Disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to the definition of the term "Fiduciary.” Prior to passage in the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), a cosponsor of the resolution, stated.... share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed H.J. Res. 88, Disapproving the rule submitted by the Department of Labor relating to the definition of the term "Fiduciary.” Prior to passage in the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-02), a cosponsor of the resolution, stated: “While the rule may be well-intended, its effects will lead to higher fees and lack of diversity and choice, limiting access to professional retirement planning and guidance for those who need it the most—low-balance savers. “I have long believed that the Securities and Exchange Commission—the governing agency with the most expertise—should be taking the lead. The Administration should have insisted on it. “Instead we are left with a thousand-plus page rule that creates a confusing, bifurcated set of standards for investment advisors, unnecessarily burdening those trying to save for retirement. “Americans need more access to affordable retirement options, not less. I thank my colleagues for their leadership on this issue, especially Mrs. Wagner, and I urge support for this resolution.” Related SEC Official: Fiduciary Rule Could Cause Investor Confusion Congressman Hill to The Hill: Fiduciary creates an extra burden for people who are trying to have retirement savings
04.28.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5019, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act of 2016, by a vote of 411-6. H.R. 5019 was introduced last week by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman John Carney (DE-At Large).... share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5019, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act of 2016, by a vote of 411-6. H.R. 5019 was introduced last week by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman John Carney (DE-At Large). H.R. 5019 is nearly identical to H.R. 2356, which passed the House last February as part of H.R. 1675, the Capital Markets Improvement Act of 2016. The bill would address anomalies in securities laws and regulations that discourage broker-dealers from publishing research on exchange traded funds (ETF) by directing the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide a safe harbor for research reports that cover ETFs. In recent decades, the popularity of ETFs has risen drastically, and along with their growth, ETFs have also become more complicated and require more analysis. After passage of the bill, Congressman Hill and Congressman Carney released the following statements: “This bill is very simple: it allows broker-dealers involved in a distribution to issue research reports on the rapidly growing ETF market. Since starting my most recent investment firm in the late 1990s, I have seen ETFs grow from about 100 funds with $100 billion in assets to over 1,400 funds with nearly $2 trillion in assets. I appreciate Congressman Carney’s partnership in the mission to promote capital formation, remove unnecessary burdens, and improve investor access to information, and I urge the Senate to follow the House’s lead and pass this simple but practical legislation.” - Congressman French Hill “It’s our job to make sure we’re providing investors with the information they need to make sound decisions. This bill reflects a year of collaboration, and I’m proud of the work we’ve done to ensure the finished product is a clarified, more effective version of the bill. I want to thank Congressman Hill for his continued dedication to addressing this issue.” - Congressman John Carney ###
04.27.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 699, the Email Privacy Act, sponsored by Congressman Kevin Yoder (KS-03). The bill would improve privacy protections under the Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) by no longer allowing law enforcement officials to access without a warrant private citizens’ emails that are more than six months old and that are being held third-party service providers. After the bill passed the House, original cosponsor Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “There needs to be a balance between the rights of private citizens and the capabilities of law enforcement officials trying to protect our communities. The existing and outdated 1986 law doesn’t meet the standard of privacy the American people expect from their government. In fact, it is, by today’s standards and technology, a shocking loophole in privacy. Protecting the rights and the safety of the people is a paramount responsibility of Congress, and I am proud we were able to come together on a bipartisan basis to amend current law so that it respects the rights of private citizens without hindering law enforcement’s ability to carry out its critical responsibilities.” ###
04.19.2016	At 3:00 PM ET, on Thursday, April 21, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will be joined outside of the U.S. Capitol Building by members of the Arkansas Congressional Delegation, Fulbright scholars, Harriet Fulbright, and other guests for a tree planting ceremony to commemorate the 70th Anniversary of the Fulbright Program... share: f t At 3:00 PM ET, on Thursday, April 21, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will be joined outside of the U.S. Capitol Building by members of the Arkansas Congressional Delegation, Fulbright scholars, Harriet Fulbright, and other guests for a tree planting ceremony to commemorate the 70th Anniversary of the Fulbright Program. The Fulbright Program was created in 1946 by then-Arkansas Senator J. William Fulbright for the “promotion of international goodwill through the exchange of students in the fields of education, culture, and science.” The program has educated over 360,000 students from 165 countries, including 52 Nobel Laureates and 31 heads of state. Earlier this year, Congressman Hill wrote an op-ed in recognition of the program and its lasting contributions in countries throughout the world, including its recent impacts of helping empower women in Afghanistan. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Tree Planting Ceremony for 70th Anniversary of the Fulbright Program When: 3:00 PM ET, Thursday, April 21, 2016 Where: US Capitol Grounds/Constitution Ave. (Directly across Constitution Ave from the Russell Senate Office Building Steps)
04.19.2016	At 10:00 AM ET, on Wednesday, April 20, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will participate in a keynote interview with reporter Sylvan Lane... share: f t At 10:00 AM ET, on Wednesday, April 20, 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will participate in a keynote interview with reporter Sylvan Lane at The Hill’s event titled, “Weathering the Storm: A Forum on Navigating Volatile Markets.” The forum will take place at Knight Studio at the Newseum in Washington, DC. Congressman Hill is a member of the House Financial Services Committee and spent more than two decades working as a community banker and financial investment manager. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill What: Interview at The Hill’s Forum on Navigating Volatile Markets When: 10:00 AM ET, Wednesday, April 20, 2016 Where: The Newseum, 555 Pennsylvania Ave NW, Washington, DC 20001 (the event will be live-streamed here) ###
04.18.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2928, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 201 B Street in Perryville, Arkansas, as the "Harold George Bennett Post Office." H.R. 2928 was introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) last June. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator John Boozman (AR)... share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2928, to designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 201 B Street in Perryville, Arkansas, as the "Harold George Bennett Post Office." H.R. 2928 was introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) last June. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senator John Boozman (AR). Sergeant George Bennett, a native of Thornburg, Arkansas, was the first American POW killed in Vietnam. Sergeant Bennett spent 179 days as a POW and after his third attempted escape, he was executed by his captors on June 25, 1965. “Today we honor Sergeant Bennett’s heroism, bravery, and service by installing a marker of his lasting contribution to his Native State and Nation he served so ably. Duty, honor, country: his example is one all Americans and Arkansans can admire, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to join Senator Boozman and me in supporting this bill,” said Congressman Hill. “Sergeant Bennett’s story of courage, patriotism and sacrifice should be preserved for future generations. His hometown seeks to honor this true American hero with this tribute. I’m pleased to see that the House is moving forward on that request and will be working with my colleagues in the Senate to finish the process,” said Senator Boozman. ###
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on Tax Day... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement on Tax Day: “Tax Day has become synonymous with the often stressful and burdensome obligation that is paying taxes. Americans understand the need to pay their taxes; however, what they rightfully cannot comprehend is why our system for paying and collecting those taxes is so complex, and in many cases, unfair to the taxpayers. I have joined many of my colleagues in cosponsoring H.R. 27, the Tax Code Termination Act, which would end the current tax code and force Congress to replace it with a new, more efficient, user-friendly system that not only funds our government, but also is fairer to the taxpayer and promotes long-term investment and growth.” Related Congressman Hill: Now’s time to fix broken tax code
04.14.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed two House Financial Services Committee bills... share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed two House Financial Services Committee bills: H.R. 3791, To raise the consolidated assets threshold under the small bank holding company policy statement, and for other purposes, and H.R. 3340, the Financial Stability Oversight Council Reform Act. H.R. 3791, introduced by Congresswoman Mia Love (UT-04), is a pro-growth bill that would make it easier for smaller financial institutions to access capital needed to make loans to business owners and other customers. Prior to its passage in the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) spoke on the House Floor in favor of H.R. 3791. “I come from a very rural state, Arkansas, and seventy percent of agricultural production loans are made by our locally owned community banks,” said Hill. “Making it easier for them to raise capital, makes it easier for our consumers and businesses to get the credit they need.” The second bill, H.R. 3340, introduced by Congressman Tom Emmer (MN-06), is an accountability measure aimed at adding needed congressional oversight to two of Washington’s least accountable bureaucracies, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) and the Office of Financial Research (OFR), by making them subject to the normal appropriations process. “Federal agencies that aren’t accountable to Congress and the taxpayers are dangerous institutions. Our system of government requires Congressional oversight to the Executive Branch, and that oversight is dependent upon the power of the purse. As it stands now, these two bureaucracies set their own budgets, and have made our oversight abilities toothless,” said Hill. “Requiring them to be subject to the appropriations process the same as most other federal agencies is common sense, and anyone who supports the most fundamental principles of government should be in favor of this legislation.” Related Watch Rep. Hill’s Full Statement in Support of H.R. 3791
04.13.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3586, the Border and Maritime Coordination Improvement Act and H.R. 4482, the Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act of 2016... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3586, the Border and Maritime Coordination Improvement Act and H.R. 4482, the Southwest Border Security Threat Assessment Act of 2016: “Our national security starts with our ability to protect our own borders from the flow of illegal traffic. I have made it a priority to be a positive voice on the issue of border security in the Congress, and I believe utilizing all the technologies at our disposal is vital to reducing potential threats at our border. Being able to listen to those on the ground, as well as immigration and border security experts, is why I have already made two trips to the U.S.-Mexico border in my first year in Congress. It is important to see the unique aspects of each part of our Southern Border, and it is why I will continue making these trips. The two bills we passed today are good steps towards better enhancing our border security, and I look forward to continuing to work on this important national security issue.” Related KARK: Rep. French Hill Talks Border Security THV 11: US Rep. French Hill visits Mexican border ###
04.13.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the passing of former Second District Congressman Ray Thornton... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the passing of former Second District Congressman Ray Thornton: “Martha and I extend our deepest condolences to the family of former Arkansas Congressman Ray Thornton. As a veteran of the Korean War, a Congressman, a state Supreme Court Justice, and an educator, Ray dedicated his entire adult life to service of our state and nation. He was a true gentlemen and an outstanding leader who used his drive, wit, and energy to represent our citizens and improve higher educational opportunity for our young people. Though he will be greatly missed by many throughout Arkansas, his countless contributions will live on for many years to come.” ###
04.06.2016	Today, after the Department of Labor (DOL) issued the final version of its fiduciary rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “While DOL’s rule may be well-intended, its effects will limit access to professional retirement planning and guidance for those who need it the most. This is ultimately another tone-deaf attempt by this administration to evoke its “Washington-knows-best” strategy in its ongoing “war on savings.” I have long believed that the Securities and Exchange Commission is the governing agency with the most expertise on the fiduciary issue, and as such, they should be leading on it. I will continue working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure this rule ultimately does not go into effect.” ###
03.25.2016	Senator John Boozman, Senator Tom Cotton, Congressman Rick Crawford, Congressman French Hill, Congressman Steve Womack, and Congressman Bruce Westerman today issued the following statement in response to an announcement by the Department of Energy (DOE) to use Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (P.L. 109–58) to partner with Clean Line Energy in an energy transmission project across Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Tennessee. “Today marks a new page in an era of unprecedented executive overreach as the Department of Energy seeks to usurp the will of Arkansans and form a partnership with a private company – the same private company previously denied rights to operate in our state by the Arkansas Public Service Commission. Despite years of pushback on the local level and continuous communications between our delegation and Secretary Moniz, DOE has decided to forgo the will of the Natural State and take over the historic ability of state-level transmission control through this announcement. “We now will begin the process of careful review over DOE’s decision and will continue to address our concerns through any avenue necessary. Section 1222 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 establishes specific conditions that must be met before this authority is used, and we expect the Department to release all details of their review so that our staff and Congressional investigators will be able to continue the process of oversight. “It is our firm belief that the DOE has overstepped its bounds, and reversing this decision through the passage of the APPROVAL Act remains a top priority.” Last year, Senator Boozman and Congressman Womack – with the support of the entire Arkansas delegation – introduced the Assuring Private Property Rights Over Vast Access to Land (APPROVAL) Act (S. 485/H.R. 3062). The APPROVAL Act would restore states’ rights to approve or reject an electric transmission project prior to the federal government exercising its power to take private property. The legislation directs the U.S. Department of Energy to obtain the approval of both the governor and the state’s public service commission before approving any Section 1222 transmission project and subsequent use of federal eminent domain, as well as the approval of any tribal government for affected lands.
03.22.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 4831, which would amend the tax code to make an exception to the 100-shareholder S corporation (S corp) limitation in the case of shares acquired through certain crowdfunding or small public offerings... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 4831, which would amend the tax code to make an exception to the 100-shareholder S corporation (S corp) limitation in the case of shares acquired through certain crowdfunding or small public offerings. The 2012 JOBS Act made it easier for small businesses to raise capital by expanding Regulation A and through crowdfunding, allowing companies to more easily raise relatively small amounts of capital from a number of investors. However, restrictions placed on S corps—most notably the 100-shareholder limitation—may hinder their ability to take advantage of these new avenues to raise capital. H.R. 4831 would expand the use of Regulation A and crowdfunding to S corps. After introducing the bill, Congressman Hill stated: “The successes of businesses of all sizes controls the health of our entire economy. As someone who has helped small businesses and worked in banking for more than two decades, I know first-hand how those successes can be directly affected by a company’s ability to efficiently raise capital. Reg A+ and crowdfunding provide new avenues for small businesses to raise the money needed to grow their operations. However, entrepreneurs who have elected an S-corp structure cannot utilize these methods without potentially endangering their tax exemption. My bill will offer a simple correction allowing S corps to remain S corps while utilizing these new, cost-effective methods of raising capital.” ### HILLAR_027_xml - S-Corp_0.pdf
03.17.2016	Today, the House of Representatives voted on H. Res. 639, which allows Speaker Paul Ryan to file an amicus brief on behalf of the House of Representatives in the pending Supreme Court case United States v. Texas, which will determine the constitutionality of President Obama’s 2014 executive actions on immigration... share: f t Today, the House of Representatives voted on H. Res. 639, which allows Speaker Paul Ryan to file an amicus brief on behalf of the House of Representatives in the pending Supreme Court case United States v. Texas, which will determine the constitutionality of President Obama’s 2014 executive actions on immigration. In February 2015, a U.S. District Judge in Texas temporarily blocked the administration from implementing these actions by issuing an injunction while the case is pending. Following today’s vote, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “When President Obama decided to implement his so-called ‘immigration reform’ through executive action, he bypassed the Legislative Branch and violated the law. With the recent loss of the most prominent constitutionalist on the Supreme Court, it is imperative the House do everything in its power to remind the eight justices that the president doesn’t have the authority to legislate without congressional consent; establishing uniform rules of naturalization are an enumerated power in Article 1 of our Constitution. While we need to fix our broken immigration system, we must do so in a way that upholds the proper role of each branch of our federal government.” ###
03.16.2016	Today, following President Obama’s announcement to nominate Chief Judge for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit Merrick Garland to replace the late Justice Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court, Congressman Hill stated: “Just as it is the president’s right to nominate a justice, it is the Senate’s right to advise and consent on that nomination. I am confident that the leadership of our Senate will do what is in their best judgement in regard to the nominee. As I have said before, as we are in the midst of a national election, it is my personal preference that this nomination be left to our next president.” ###
03.14.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res. 75, a resolution that condemns the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) for its disturbing actions aimed at religious minorities, including Christians and Yezidis, from the Middle East. After passage of the resolution, Congressman Hill, a co-sponsor, stated: “America’s commitment to religious freedom and human rights is a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy. I am proud that Congress is putting pressure on the Obama Administration to live up to this basic tenet. A few weeks ago I met with a Yezidi woman who shared with me a first-hand account of ISIS’ brutal atrocities. The barbaric nature of ISIS’ attempted caliphate includes the use of medieval violence such as crucifixion, burning people alive, and beheadings. ISIS fighters are raping and enslaving women and destroying families, and these actions on religious minorities, including Christians, Yezidis, Turkmen, Sabea-Mandeans, Kaka‘e, and Kurds must be stopped immediately, and the American government should be leading this effort.” ###
03.10.2016	CONWAY, Ar. – Today Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Faulkner County Judge Jim Baker visited with residents in the Treasure Hills subdivision in Faulkner County. Last May, Treasure Hills was hit heavily by flooding, a problem that has persisted in the area for decades. “I wanted to come and meet with the people in the community to let them know I am committed to working with Judge Baker to determine where federal agencies can better coordinate with local officials and property owners to help prevent similar situations from occurring in the future,” said Congressman Hill. Congressman Hill and Judge Baker held a listening session with the residents, who talked about an increase in the frequency of floods in the subdivision and how changes in the floodplain, as well as the Arkansas River navigation system, have caused a nearby creek to consistently overflow into their neighborhood. After the visit, Judge Baker said: “Congressman Hill cares about people that have been affected by the flood. He personally visited the Treasure Hills area and listened to the residents’ concerns this morning.” Residents also stressed the need to find a permanent fix to the flooding, noting the problem has existed since the early 1990s and has caused a sharp rise in their flood insurance rates. “Judge Baker and I will continue working on behalf of the people of Treasure Hills—the families in this community shouldn’t have to live in fear of damaging flooding every time we experience heavy rain,” said Rep. Hill. ###
03.10.2016	Little Rock, AR – Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced mobile office hours in the following cities in the Second Congressional District: Perryville, Vilonia, Hot Springs Village, Plumerville, Sherwood, Judsonia, and Shirley. After the announcement, Congressman Hill stated: “As a member of Congress, being able to reach all of my constituents is an important part of the role I serve in our community. We have two great office locations in Little Rock and in Conway where my staff and I handle casework and meet with constituents. As well-located as these offices are, they are not always accessible for everyone. That is why I am announcing mobile office hours throughout the entire district for next week. These events are a great opportunity to meet with my staff, learn about what we can do for you, and get our help with any issues you are having with the federal government—especially for veterans in need of guidance on how to receive benefits. Our team is here to serve you, and, as always, never be shy to reach out to us when you are in need of assistance.” Below are the dates, times, and locations for the seven mobile office hours: Tuesday, March 15, 2016 Perryville Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00AM Perryville City Hall (613 N. Fourche Ave, Perryville, AR 72126) Vilonia Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM - Vilonia City Hall (18 Bise St, Vilonia, AR 72173) Wednesday, March 16, 2016 Hot Springs Village Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 PM - McAuley Senior Community Center (5010 Hwy 7 North, Hot Springs Village, AR 71909) Plumerville Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 2:00 PM - 4:00 PM - Plumerville Mayor's Office (303 W Main St, Plumerville, AR 72127) Thursday, March 17, 2016 Sherwood Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM - Jack Evans Senior Center (2301 Thornhill Dr, Sherwood, AR 72120) Judsonia Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 2:00 PM- 4:00 PM - Judsonia Library (612 Van Buren Ave, Judsonia, AR 72081) Friday, March 18, 2016 Shirley Mobile Office Hours Office of Congressman French Hill 10:00 AM - 12:00 PM - Shirley City Hall (489 AR-9, Shirley, AR 72153)
03.03.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is the February recipient of the Golden Fleece Award... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) is the February recipient of the Golden Fleece Award for the distribution of $750 million in tax credits to unproven citizens and/or unlawfully present individuals in the United States. In a letter to CMS Acting Administrator Andrew Slavitt, Congressman Hill wrote: “This mismanagement of taxpayers’ dollars was recently highlighted by a report from the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs on the Affordable Care Act Premium Tax Credits. “There is an old adage that CMS would be wise to follow: ‘measure twice; cut once.’ However, time and time again, those responsible for the implementation of the President’s failed health care law have further contributed to its harmful effects through their rushed efforts at the expense of the hardworking American taxpayers and the U.S. economy…” You can read Rep. Hill’s entire letter here.
03.02.2016	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3716, the Ensuring Terminated Providers are Removed from Medicaid and CHIP, by a bipartisan vote of 406-0. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3716, the Ensuring Terminated Providers are Removed from Medicaid and CHIP, by a bipartisan vote of 406-0. H.R. 3716 is projected to save taxpayers $28 million by reducing avenues for bad actors to defraud Medicaid. It would also increase access to physicians, making vulnerable Medicaid patients less reliant on emergency rooms for health care. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The biggest fiscal challenge for American taxpayers comes from our mandatory spending obligations. As the federal debt continues its ascension towards $20 trillion, Congress needs to reform these programs so that they can become more cost-effective while remaining beneficial to their recipients. Any measure that saves the taxpayers money, no matter how small, is a significant step in the right direction. I am committed to continuing the good work of the House in modernizing our mandatory federal programs, so that they not only better serve their recipients, but become a better investment for hardworking taxpayers.” ###
03.02.2016	Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 4620, the Preserving Access to CRE Capital Act of 2016, introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02). During the markup, Congressman Hill stated: “If the [risk retention rule] is not modified before going into effect, borrowers across the country could experience significant reductions in access to credit, unwarranted increases in borrowing costs, and reduced liquidity, which could impair economic development and job creation in areas that need it most. “We should be encouraging private capital flows into commercial investment-grade real estate, yet should this rule take effect in its current form, private capital flows will be significantly curtailed, especially when the risk retention rule is combined with other rules under Basel III and Volcker. “The Commercial Real Estate Finance Counsel 2015 regulatory impact study found that the 10-year GDP effect on the commercial real estate sector could be nearly $1 trillion. CMBS funds properties across the United States, including $6 billion in Arkansas, and is especially important to secondary and tertiary markets where it may be the only financing option.” More information on H.R. 4620 H.R. 4620 modifies Dodd-Frank’s risk retention requirements for prudently underwritten, low-risk commercial real estate loans. The current Dodd-Frank rules are set to take effect in December 2016. As one of the largest sources of credit for commercial and multifamily real estate in the United States, the commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) market is an important element of the over $3 trillion commercial real estate debt market, especially in smaller markets. CMBS provides financing to retail, office, apartments, industrial, health care, and many other types of commercial real estate. Related Watch Rep. Hill’s Statement at the Committee Markup
02.25.2016	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) introduced H.R. 4620, the Preserving Access to CRE Capital Act of 2016. H.R. 4620 modifies Dodd-Frank’s risk retention requirements for prudently underwritten, low-risk commercial real estate loans, the current Dodd-Frank rules are set to take effect in December 2016. As one of the largest sources of credit for commercial and multifamily real estate in the United States, the commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) market is an important element of the over $3 trillion commercial real estate debt market, especially in smaller markets. CMBS provides financing to retail, office, apartments, industrial, health care, and many other types of commercial real estate. If the rule is not modified before going into effect, borrowers across the country could experience significant reductions in access to credit, unwarranted increases in borrowing costs, and reduced liquidity, which could impair economic development and job creation in areas that need it most. Following introduction of the bill, Congressman Hill stated: “Washington and its one-size-fits-all regulators have put forth rule after rule without taking into account input from affected industries or the effects they can have on development and job growth, especially in smaller commercial markets. This minor, but important, modification to credit risk retention rule will help ensure continued liquidity and affordable financing options for commercial real estate borrowers in Arkansas and throughout the country.” Click here to read the full text of the bill.
02.23.2016	Today, after President Obama announced his repetitive and ill-conceived plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after President Barrack Obama announced his repetitive and ill-conceived plan to close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The president is risking our national security in order to fulfill a tired, eight-year old campaign promise. This isn’t the type of leadership you would expect from someone whose entire tenure as commander in chief has been spent at war with Islamic extremists. Last year, I had the opportunity to visit the state-of-the-art facilities at GTMO, and I saw first-hand a safe and secure facility for housing and adjudicating dangerous agents of terror. GTMO is an essential part of our Global War on Terror, and through the annual National Defense Authorization Act—which the president signed into law—Congress has already made it illegal to close GTMO and we will not tolerate the President’s plan to move these dangerous individuals to U.S. soil.” Related Hill Statement on Visit to Guantanamo Bay ###
02.11.2016	Today, after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen finished her semiannual testimony in front of the House Financial Services Committee (Wednesday) and the Senate Banking Committee, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen finished her semiannual testimony in front of the House Financial Services Committee (Wednesday) and the Senate Banking Committee, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “After seven years of near-zero interest rates, we are still amidst the worst economic recovery since World War II, the labor participation rate is historically low, wages are stagnant, and Chair Yellen comes to Congress and offers no constructive advice on how to resolve these problems. Congress and the Committee expect her testimony to be lined with policy solutions, not vague talk about ‘economic headwinds.’ I expect the Chair of our Federal Reserve to offer specific suggestions about reversing non-monetary policy structural impediments to faster economic growth. I welcome her specific views on expanding investment and credit by reducing poorly crafted federal intrusion in commerce, health, and capital markets; removing barriers to access for credit by consumers and on businesses; and, pro-growth tax reforms in the country’s long-term interest.” ###
02.10.2016	Today Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court granted a stay, stopping the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) implementation of the Clean Power Plan: “The president and his Administration were handed a significant defeat by the Court in their unlawful proposal to advance the president’s climate agenda. The EPA’s Clean Power Plan circumvented Congress and ignored concerns about the increased costs for lighting, heating and cooling homes of hardworking families and businesses in Arkansas and across the country. While we must support reasonable rules to protect our environment, the Clean Power Plan is not a reasonable, nor a legal solution, and I am glad the highest court has similar feelings.” Additional Information At the end of last year, the House and Senate passed joint resolutions, S.J.Res. 23 and S.J. Res 24, which would block the EPA’s carbon emission proposals on new and existing power plants; however, the President vetoed both bills. ###
02.09.2016	Today, the House passed nine separate veterans bills. Included in the package of bills is legislation that would address the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) major construction failures... share: f t Today, the House passed nine separate veterans bills. Included in the package of bills is legislation that would address the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) major construction failures, most notably a hospital project in Aurora, CO, with cost overruns of more than $1 billion. Other bills included one that would authorize an automatic cost-of-living-adjustment for eligible veterans and another that would provide an important fix to the G.I. Bill. Following passage of the bills, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “Our veterans place their trust in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with the expectation of receiving top-notch service. While VA excels in many areas like providing specialized care to some of our most wounded veterans, it still has major failures that need to be fixed. The bills we passed today address some of those failures by placing an emphasis on not only providing better care for the veterans, but also increasing oversight and accountability on how VA spends the taxpayers money.” Below are the nine bills passed by the House: H.R. 3016 – Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act H.R. 3106 – Construction Reform Act of 2016 H.R. 2360 – Career-Ready Student Veterans Act H.R. 3262 – To provide for the conveyance of land of the Illiana Health Care System of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Danville, Illinois H.R. 4056 – To Authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to convey to the Florida Department of Veterans Affairs all right, title, and interest of the United States to the property known as “The Community Living Center” at the Lake Baldwin Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic, Orlando, Florida H.R. 677 – American Heroes COLA Act of 2015 H.R. 4437 – To extend the deadline for the submittal of the final report required by the Commission on Care H.R. 3234 – VA Medical Center Recovery Act H.R. 2915 – Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act
02.09.2016	Today, after the president released his budget for Fiscal Year 2017, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) release the following statement... share: f t Today, after the president released his budget for Fiscal Year 2017, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) release the following statement: “Fortunately for the American people this is the last budget request of this president. This budget is a reiteration of his liberal, government-knows-best policy agenda and offers no solution to balance the budget and solve our debt crisis. Reversing our current fiscal course will be a monumental undertaking that won’t be completed unless we have a president whose priorities match those of the American people and the Congress.” ###
02.05.2016	The office of Congressman French Hill (AR-02) is looking for summer interns in his Washington, D.C., Little Rock, Arkansas, and Conway, Arkansas, offices. Interns will work in a fast-paced Capitol Hill office, gaining valuable exposure and knowledge of the legislative process and the U.S. Congress. Washington DC Intern Responsibilities Include greeting constituents, answering constituent phone calls, opening and sorting mail, guiding U.S. Capitol building tours, and assisting staff with administrative tasks. Interns also will have the opportunity to conduct legislative research and assist with correspondence, as well as attend Capitol Hill briefings, congressional hearings, and press events. Social media and other communications experience a plus. District Office Intern Responsibilities Include answering phones, organizing, distributing, and inputting mail, assisting staff with casework and constituent outreach. Qualified individuals will display strong writing skills and attention to detail. Applicants should have working knowledge of current events and policy topics as well as a willingness to assist with daily office tasks. Those interested please send resume and cover letter to ar02.applications@mail.house.gov. ###
02.04.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 766, the Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2015, by a bipartisan vote of 250-169... share: f t Today, the House passed H.R. 766, the Financial Institution Customer Protection Act of 2015, by a bipartisan vote of 250-169. The bill was introduced last year in response the Department of Justice’s initiative known as “Operation Choke Point,” which has targeted legitimate and regulated industries and has caused them to lose access to financial services. After passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “While the goals of Operation Choke Point to combat fraud may have been laudable, this initiative went much further targeting legal industries. I have heard from pawnbrokers in Arkansas—legally licensed and state and federally regulated—that have fallen victim to Operation Choke Point by having their bank services limited or discontinued and most recently, a firearms dealer that lost access to his payment processer. Hardworking and legitimate business owners should not have their operations adversely affected because their industry is unfairly targeted by this Administration. I am proud to support legislation that is essential to helping end the egregious abuse of executive power like that on display in Operation Choke Point.” ###
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House passed H.R. 1675, the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2015, by a vote of 265-159. Included in H.R. 1675 was a package of financial services bills, including H.R. 2356, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act, which was introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) last May... share: f t Today, the House passed H.R. 1675, the Encouraging Employee Ownership Act of 2015, by a vote of 265-159. Included in H.R. 1675 was a package of financial services bills, including H.R. 2356, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act, which was introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) last May. H.R. 2356 would direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide a safe harbor for research reports that cover Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) so that the reports would not be considered “offers” under the Securities Act of 1933. Following passage of the bill, Congressman Hill stated: “Spending the past three decades in the investment industry, I have witnessed firsthand ETFs skyrocket. Yet despite their increased popularity, there is little research on ETFs due to anomalies in the securities laws. My commonsense bill would clarify the law and allow broker-dealers to publish ETF research, allowing investors to access useful information in this rapidly growing market. I appreciate Chairman Hensarling’s and the Congress’ efforts to promote capital formation, reduce unnecessary burdens, and grow jobs and the economy and was proud to support this bill.”
02.03.2016	Today marks four months since the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID), or “Know Before You Owe, rule became effective. Since then, numerous reports, news stories, and first-hand accounts from the industry have indicated that there are many problems and confusion stemming from TRID implementation, and as a result, a disruption in home sales. In October, by an overwhelming bipartisan majority, the House passed H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which was introduced by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and would have created a temporary legal safe harbor for those making a good faith effort to comply with TRID, which would have enabled the real estate industry to more effectively navigate the transition to this new, complex closing regime. Since implementation, the CFPB has offered very little guidance to industry on issues that have arisen during implementation, and instead, has doubled-down on enforcement. In response to CFPB’s inaction in assisting the industry effectively transition to TRID, Congressman Hill, Arkansas Bankers Association (ABA) President and CEO Bill Holmes, and American Land Title Association (ALTA) CEO Michelle Korsmo released the following statements: “CFPB’s lack of interest in rectifying the problem that it caused speaks volumes about its true commitment to helping consumers. Despite numerous reports of the TRID rule delaying the home-buying process for American families, CFPB is sitting on its hands and has done virtually nothing to help consumers, title companies, lenders, and realtors navigate this new closing regime since. Moving forward, CFPB must work with Congress and the real estate industry to provide guidance and eliminate confusion and uncertainty to best serve those hoping to achieve the American dream of home ownership.” – Congressman French Hill “The new TRID regime has been in effect since October 2015, and despite inconsistencies in the interpretation of the regulations, we are still seeking clarification from the CFPB.” – ABA President and CEO Bill Holmes "Four months in, we are still working thought significant questions and uncertainty around the ‘Know Before You Owe’ rule. This is causing lenders, investors, vendors and due diligence companies to be overly cautious leading to in part longer closing timelines for consumers. Many of these issues could be addressed by more guidance from the CFPB and tweaks to address the consumer confusion caused by the regulation’s title insurance calculations. Mortgage lending will continue, but added guidance for the industry will help consumers that the CFPB seeks to help and protect." – ALTA CEO Michelle Korsmo
01.13.2016	Today, after the House passed S.J.Res. 22, a joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency relating to the definition of "waters of the United States" under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after the House passed S.J.Res. 22, A joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency relating to the definition of "waters of the United States" under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “At last night’s State of the Union address, the president made a point to characterize too much regulation out of Washington as being burdensome on the American people. The WOTUS rule is a prime example of the overregulation, to which President Obama alluded last night. The law never intended for the federal micromanaging of streams and ponds on private lands and farms in Arkansas, and it would be a great opportunity for the president to put his money where his mouth is and prevent this vast overreach by the EPA.”
01.12.2016	Today, after President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union Address, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union Address, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “People throughout Arkansas and the rest of the country are tired of the president’s my-way-or-the-highway approach to governing, and tonight’s speech offered no assurances that he is ready to ditch that mentality. Tonight, he once again showed his habit of coming to Congress to pontificate and not to join in or support our bipartisan efforts on major issues facing this Nation. We need a president who wants to work with Congress to improve our economy and put forth a plan to defeat enemies like ISIS. “I also am troubled that the president didn’t address today’s news that ten American sailors have been arrested by the Iranian government. Iran continues to demonstrate that it can’t be trusted, even in the wake of the massive sanctions relief the president’s administration provided them through last year’s nuclear deal. Iran is not our friend, and this president must use his last year in office to push back against their aggressive actions towards America and its allies.”
01.06.2016	Today, the House passed H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, by a vote of (240-181). Among other actions, H.R. 3762 would gut Obamacare and end all federal funding for Planned Parenthood. It is the first bill eliminating key parts of Obamacare that has passed both the House and Senate, and it will be sent to the President’s desk later this week. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “As House Republicans have said for some time now, the best path toward killing Obamacare and defunding Planned Parenthood is through budget reconciliation. For those in Congress who are determined to gut Obamacare in its entirety, today signifies a major win in bringing down the fortress Harry Reid and Senate Democrats have built around this disaster of a law. Today likely won’t be the end of the road in this fight, but if the President vetoes this bill, it will be clear to the American people that Washington Democrats not only created the problem, but they are also now unmistakably responsible for blocking the solution. “I remain committed to replacing this ill-conceived law with real, patient-centered healthcare reform that expands more affordable and accessible coverage that meets the needs of American and Arkansan families.” Additional Information A Victory Over ObamaCare (Wall Street Journal)
01.05.2016	Today, after President Obama’s speech detailing his executive actions to bypass Congress and impose new restrictions on Second Amendment rights of the American people, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after President Obama’s speech detailing his executive actions to bypass Congress and impose new restrictions on Second Amendment rights of the American people, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) stated: “We need to take guns out of the hands of criminals; however, the President’s executive overreach infringing upon our Second Amendment rights would do nothing to prevent violence perpetrated by criminals and only make it more difficult for law-abiding citizens to obtain firearms to protect themselves and their loved ones. It is the lack of access to mental healthcare that has resulted in many of the mass shootings, and while I was encouraged by the President’s acknowledgment of this in today’s speech, his decision to subvert congressional authority in hopes of achieving a political victory against gun rights is unconstitutional. The American people and their Congress will not let this action stand.”
12.18.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2029, Consolidated Appropriations Act by a vote of 316-113. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2029, Consolidated Appropriations Act by a vote of 316-113. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “Throughout the course of this year, the House passed all twelve appropriations bills out of Committee and passed six of those bills out of the House. This is how the appropriations process should work, and if the Senate Democrats hadn’t stymied regular order and dealt with individual appropriations bills in a timely way and the President hadn’t insisted on holding military funding hostage to support more deficit spending for his domestic agenda, we would not have had to pass this after-midnight spending deal today. “My preference always has been to live under the budget caps, which have reigned in domestic discretionary spending. But we can never reverse our annual negative fiscal trends without tackling mandatory spending programs. The next President must join Congress in this essential mission. “The inaction of Senate Democrats led us to today, and while I don’t like these year-end, all-encompassing spending bills, I voted for this one because the good significantly outweighs the bad. Part of being an effective legislator is understanding that any opportunity to move the needle in the right direction—no matter how incremental the movement—is a positive outcome. In passing today’s bill, we continue the fight against the President’s failed health care law while protecting important pro-life policies, supporting our military, improving our Nation’s economy, reigning in the IRS, and cutting funding to the EPA. “By delaying Obamacare taxes, preventing funds from being used to bailout the risk corridor program, and prohibiting new funding for Obamacare, we are providing important relief for businesses and hardworking taxpayers. Pro-life protections in this bill will also prevent taxpayer funding of abortions and prevent discrimination of health providers who refuse to provide, pay for, or refer abortions. “The House also plans to take up the budget reconciliation bill, which recently passed the Senate. This reconciliation bill has been supported by a number of pro-growth and pro-life organizations, including the National Right to Life Committee, and passage of this bill in the House will ensure that Congress puts on the President’s desk a bill that repeals key provisions of his failed health care law and prohibits federal taxpayer dollars from funding Planned Parenthood. “Our National Defense Authorization Act requires the President to put forth a strategy and tactical plan to defeat ISIS. In the meantime, Congress is fully funding the mightiest military force in the world and supporting Little Rock Air Force Base and Camp Robinson. We are also implementing important reforms that will strengthen the Visa Waiver Program by restricting travel to the United States by individuals from countries that have travelled to Iraq or Syria since March 2011, or those who have dual nationality with Syria, Iraq, or Sudan. “The bill also contains many provisions that are aimed at growing the economy in Arkansas and the rest of the country. One of those provisions is the lifting of the 40-year-old ban on exporting crude oil from the United States. In the past four decades since we first enacted this self-imposed ban, oil and gas exploration technologies have greatly expanded the ability for the United States to increase our oil extraction and energy production. This will also provide increased energy options for our NATO and Asian allies abroad that are currently forced to rely on oil from conflict driven and terror-centric states in the Persian Gulf. This will also help to break the grip that OPEC has had on our world’s energy resources. “This bill, along with the important tax extenders legislation, will help grow our economy from the ground up, providing businesses with the certainty needed to invest new capital, grow, expand, and create jobs in Arkansas and throughout the country. “I will continue to work for good conservative policies that will offer a clear and complete alternative to the agenda of the President and his colleagues in order to show how we plan to grow our economy, support our national security, and effectively manage and solve the problems facing our great Nation.”
12.17.2015	Today, the House passed the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act by a bipartisan vote of 318-109. The PATH Act would extend numerous temporary tax provisions and make over 20 tax relief provisions permanent, including the Research and Development Tax Credit, Section 179 small business expensing, and several extenders that enhance charitable giving, such as the IRA charitable rollover provision. Following its passage, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “We need a tax code that promotes economic growth and gives our businesses the certainty needed to grow, expand, and create jobs in Arkansas and throughout the country. Consistent with the goal of comprehensive tax reform, the House passed the PATH Act, which would prevent a significant tax increase on millions of Americans and provide certainty to the tax code. I was proud to support this bipartisan, pro-growth bill that is an important first step toward meaningful tax reform. I have always been an advocate for lower taxes for all Arkansans and Americans, and I will continue working toward a simpler and fairer tax code.”
12.16.2015	Today, after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “While the markets have been making these adjustments for months, today the Federal Reserve has begun to raise the federal funds rate after holding it near zero for seven years. While I’m glad to see the Fed take this step, in my view, it needs to develop a more rules-based approach to monetary policy, such as that contained in the House-passed FORM Act, to prevent ambiguity in the future.”
12.11.2015	At 10:30 AM CT, on Monday, December 14, 2015, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) will host a press conference at the Historic Saline River Bridge. Last week, Saline County was awarded a $500,000 grant from the Arkansas State Department of Highway and Transportation Department (AHTD) through the Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), a federal-aid program that assists in constructing non-motorized forms of transportation. Funds from TAP will be used for the rehabilitation of the historic Saline River Bridge and its conversion to a bicycle and pedestrian bridge. The project will provide a needed Saline River crossing for the planned Southwest Trail bicycle trail from Little Rock to Hot Springs. The following event is open to the press: Who: Congressman French Hill, Saline County Judge Jeff Arey, and AHTD Director Scott Bennett What: Press Conference When: 10:30 AM CT, Monday, December 14, 2015 Where: Saline River Bridge ### Directions from Little Rock: Take I-30 W to Benton Take exit 116 toward Sevier St/South St Remain on the access road (I-30 Frontage Rd) Turn right onto W South St, which will loop you onto a bridge over the interstate Slight right toward I-30 Frontage Rd Slight left onto I-30 Frontage Rd Turn left onto Airlane Dr by Holland Baptist Church of Benton. Stay right on Airlane Dr at the intersection of Mary Kay and Airlane. Continue onto a dirt road until you reach the bridge site on the right.
12.10.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2), alongside eleven other Members of Congress, sent a letter to Carolyn Colvin, Acting Commissioner of the Social Security Administration (SSA), requesting that SSA work with Congress to develop innovative demonstration projects to help individuals with disabilities return to work. The members stated: “The recently passed and signed into law Bipartisan Budget Act provides the Social Security Administration (SSA) with the authority to develop and implement additional demonstration projects to help disability applicants and beneficiaries return to work. As SSA begins to develop these new programs, we encourage you to work with Congress, congressional committees of jurisdiction, and experts and scholars that have offered recommendations to develop effective and innovative projects that will get people off of the disability rolls and back to work.” Click here to read the full letter.
12.09.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) attended the 150th Anniversary Celebration of the ratification of the 13th Amendment with his invited guest, Ms. Annie Abrams of Little Rock. Following the ceremony, Congressman Hill released the below statement: “There are very few people who have as deep an appreciation for American History—particularly as it relates to African-Americans—as my friend of nearly two decades, Ms. Annie Abrams. As a local educator and civic and community leader, Ms. Abrams has enriched the lives of countless Arkansans and Americans. To be able to spend today with her in celebration of the constitutional amendment that first allowed America to begin to uphold the value that ‘all men are created equal’ was an inspiration.”
12.08.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015, by a bipartisan vote of 407-19. H.R. 158, introduced by Rep. Candice Miller (MI-10)... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015, by a bipartisan vote of 407-19. H.R. 158, introduced by Rep. Candice Miller (MI-10), would put in place new provisions to strengthen the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) by restricting travel to the United States by non-U.S. citizens who have traveled to certain nations, including Syria and Iraq. Following passage of H.R. 158, Congressman French Hill (AR-2), a cosponsor of the bill, released the below statement: “The attacks on Paris and San Bernardino show the effect ISIS and their message of evil are having throughout the world. As the threat of attacks from ISIS and other terrorist groups increase, Congress needs to strengthen our borders—both actual and virtual—by passing meaningful, bipartisan legislation that addresses any holes in our national security. Today’s vote to block entry into the United States for those who may have ties to terror groups is, like the Syrian refugee bill passed in the House last month, a significant but not final step in providing the American people peace of mind that their government is working to stop terrorists from reaching our great Nation.”
12.07.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is the November recipient for the Golden Fleece Award for their award of $142 million in bonuses to VA employees and the decision to allow two VA officials that manipulated the agency’s employee relocation program to keep the funds they received from defrauding hardworking taxpayers. This is VA’s second Golden Fleece award—they also won for the failed solar panel project at the Little Rock VA Medical Center in June. In a letter to VA Secretary Bob McDonald, Congressman Hill wrote: “I write to not only award the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with last month’s Golden Fleece, but to alert you of the serious mistrust and outrage that our veterans in Arkansas have expressed due to the VA’s policy of awarding officials at the agency with substantial pay and bonuses while our Nation’s veterans continue to face long waits for health care and unpaid and unresolved benefit claims.” You can read Rep. Hill’s entire letter here.
12.07.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after President Obama’s address to the Nation from the Oval Office: “Tonight’s address by the President shows he has come a long way from his days of believing that ISIS is a ‘JV team.’ Unfortunately, in the two years since the President initially downplayed the threat of ISIS, they have only grown stronger and shown they are capable of carrying out devastating attacks all over the globe. While the President is finally admitting we need to defeat this enemy, he offered no real strategy for how to accomplish that mission. The President now needs to put in place a plan that gives our commanders on the ground everything they need to remove ISIS from the face of the earth.”
12.03.2015	Today, on the two month anniversary of the implementation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) Rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) and 21 other Members of Congress... share: f t Today, on the two month anniversary of the implementation of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) Rule, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) and 21 other Members of Congress sent a letter to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, and House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers urging them to add the provisions of H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, to any year end spending legislation. H.R. 3192, which passed the House in October, would provide a formal hold-harmless period for those making a good faith effort to comply with the CFPB’s TRID rule. Since TRID’s implemenntation, many in the mortgage industry have complained that complying with the rule is difficult and is slowing the home buying process. The Members stated: “On October 3, 2015, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule became effective, and two months later, there is still much confusion for lenders and real estate professionals trying to navigate this new closing regime. Reports have come in from across the country indicating that real estate transactions are taking longer than usual and closings are being delayed. Software systems are still not ready or have significant technical glitches, which have forced the manual input of this extensive data. There are also significant privacy concerns regarding the sharing of the Closing Disclosure, which includes the consumer’s personal financial data, with the consumer’s real estate agent. On October 7, 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which would provide a formal hold-harmless period during the initial implementation of the TRID rule, ensuring those making a good-faith effort to comply are not penalized during the transition period. H.R. 3192 passed by a strong bipartisan, veto-proof majority of 303-121. While the CFPB and other financial regulators have acknowledged the need for leniency for good-faith efforts to comply with this extremely complex rule, the consumer bar has not. By providing a hold-harmless period under the law, we can ensure that everyone is on the same page about the correct expectations and provide the mortgage industry with the confidence and certainty they need to operate effectively. Small financial institutions, title and mortgage companies experience the most negative exposure without a formal hold-harmless period, as their larger counterparts have more resources to navigate the complex implementation of this rule. Some small real estate settlement providers are not handling TRID closings at this time due to complexity and lack of liability protection, causing a hardship on the small and rural communities they serve. The provisions in H.R. 3192 no way delay the implementation of TRID or shield any wrongdoers from legal recourse or penalties—it simply provides a temporary safe harbor for those making a good-faith effort to comply with a very complex rule. We respectfully request that the financial regulatory relief language, such as that included in the FY 2016 Senate Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, be modified to reflect the provisions of H.R. 3192 and included in any year-end legislation to provide certainty to the real estate industry and help prevent further costly market disruptions and delays for American homebuyers.”
12.03.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the House-Senate agreed Conference Report to H.R. 22, the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the House-Senate agreed Conference Report to H.R. 22, the Fixing America's Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. This long-term highway and infrastructure bill will provide an additional $244 million for highway projects in Arkansas, bringing the total federal investment for Arkansas projects included to $2.5 billion over five years. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “This conference report is far from perfect, and some of the provisions had no business being a part of a discussion about highways. But in the end, it accomplishes what the people of Arkansas and America need and expect for long-term infrastructure planning. This will be the first time since the George W. Bush Administration that we will have a highway funding bill that gives us the flexibility to fund and finish our most crucial infrastructure projects without burdening hardworking American taxpayers. This legislation facilitates a plan to execute the road and bridge projects long-needed for our state. Infrastructure work offers steady employment and enhances the economic profile of the Natural State.”
11.19.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) introduced H.R. 4086, the Security Verification for Refugees Act, a bill that would expand the vetting process proposed under H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015. In H.R. 4038, the term “covered alien” only includes refugees from Syria and Iraq. H.R. 4086 would redefine the term “covered alien” to include anyone seeking asylum in America from a country that is designated as a high-risk threat to the United States by the U.S. Department of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). Refugees applying for asylum from high-risk countries would require individual verification by DHS, FBI, and DNI before being granted admission to the United States. After introducing the bill, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “America needs to remain a beacon of hope, liberty, and freedom for the rest of the world. However, in maintaining that promise, we also need to maintain our promise of defending the American people from the very real threats our enemies pose. Today’s vote in the House gets the ball moving in the right direction, but it is missing needed provisions that will avoid this same pitfall down the road. “My bill takes what is good about the SAFE Act and broadens those provisions to apply to a refugee from any country that poses a high-risk threat to our democracy. The attacks in Paris were a tragic reminder of what our enemies are capable of and a wake up call that we need to be not only reactive, but also proactive in how we deal with these threats. Like the SAFE Act, The Security Verification for Refugees Act will give Congress additional oversight of our entire refugee vetting process and create another layer of security to ensure that those seeking asylum in the United States are doing so because they want to live in the greatest country in world—not because they want to destroy it.” H.R. 4086 Bill Text.pdf
11.17.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced that Jill Cox of Little Rock has been promoted to District Director. Cox, a native of Batesville, Arkansas, has been Congressman Hill’s Deputy District Director since January, and spent the previous four years working for now-retired Congressman Tim Griffin as Federal Grants Director before being promoted to Deputy District Director in 2014. Following the announcement, Congressman Hill released the below statement: “Constituent services are a responsibility I take very seriously, and having a District Director committed to that mission is critical. Jill’s dedication to her job and to the people we serve make this a well-deserved promotion, and I look forward to her continued contributions to our office and the citizens of the Second District.”
11.16.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after President Obama defended his Administration’s strategy to fight ISIS during a news conference at the Group of 20 (G20) summit today in Turkey: “President Obama has once again demonstrated that he remains tone deaf in his approach to protecting America and our allies. While the world mourns the senseless and horrific terrorist attacks on Paris, the President has refused to acknowledge that our strategy towards dealing with ISIS and terrorism abroad needs to evolve. Instead, he has doubled down on the failed policies that continue to leave us one step behind our enemy. “Worse even, the President announced the release of five Guantanamo terrorist detainees only hours after the attack, another move in his attempt to shut down a facility that provides a crucial strategic advantage in the Global War on Terror. What happened in Paris was an act of war and brutally demonstrated that the free world is under a full-frontal assault by radical Islamic fanatics. We can no longer sit idly and expect this problem to go away on its own; we need to stand with our allies throughout the world and lead the fight against ISIS.”
11.16.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement in response to Governor Asa Hutchinson’s announcement on Syrian refugees: “I support the Governor’s decision for now to deny asylum to Syrian refugees in Arkansas. America needs to offer aid and support other humanitarian efforts to those seeking a life free of persecution. However, in light of Friday’s attacks in Paris and recent threats against our Nation’s capital, a plan to accept 10,000 refugees from a country with such deep ties to ISIS without a proven and effective screening process could create a substantial threat to the safety and security of the American people.” Additional Information FBI Director Admits US Can’t Vet All Syrian Refugees For Terror Ties Senators want Obama to detail plans for vetting Syrian refugees Ex-House Intelligence chairman: Refugees can’t be fully vetted
11.10.2015	During the past week, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) was part of a bipartisan Congressional Delegation to Kabul, Afghanistan and Abu Dhabi, UAE. While in Kabul, the Delegation met with American diplomats and military commanders as well as Afghan officials to assess the future of the NATO mission, Resolute Support. After the visit, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “This trip was well-timed considering President Obama's recent announcement to maintain U.S. troop strength in Afghanistan at 9,800 through the end of 2016. The President made a sensible strategic decision in maintaining U.S. and NATO strength to train, advise, and assist the mission of charting a path for a secure and economically independent Afghanistan. “I left impressed with Afghan leadership and their willingness to fight and assume responsibility for their security, particularly in light of heavy offensive operations by a more lethal Taliban and new engagement from Al-Qaeda and ISIL. The Afghan Unity Government is a refreshing change from the Karzai decade, but, there is still much work to be done in terms of Afghan security, economic development, and relations with its neighbors. The Unity Government has witnessed victory and defeat, and emphasis now must be on unity and getting the job done. This government has an opportunity to move beyond three decades of conflict and finally provide its people a future with the freedom to pursue happiness.” ### Additional Information The Delegation was led by the Chair of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (FL-27). Congressman Ted Yoho (FL-3) and Congressman Donald Norcross (NJ-1) were also part of the Delegation.
11.09.2015	Last week, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy to alert her that the EPA was October’s recipient of the Golden Fleece Award. Text of the letter can be seen below... share: f t Last week, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) sent a letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Gina McCarthy to alert her that the EPA was October’s recipient of the Golden Fleece Award. Text of the letter can be seen below: “I write today to inform you of my recent Golden Fleece Award to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for wasting $75 million annually for military-type purchases, including guns, body armor, and ammunition for EPA law enforcement agents. Although we must effectively investigate and prosecute violators of our environmental laws, I believe that our federal agencies should rely on the Department of Justice and our U.S. marshals to investigate and enforce criminal laws. In an age of tight fiscal challenges, this annual spending of $75 million for guns, ammunition, and other equipment seems unnecessarily excessive. A recent report on EPA spending highlighted numerous purchases for guns, ammunition, night vision, and armament training devices for EPA law enforcement officials. Our federal budget is severely strained, and the EPA is facing a disaster of its own making at the Animas River, which could cost millions, if not billions, of dollars. Although the EPA is not the only federal agency that provides funding for its own law enforcement arm, I believe it is time for the agency to implement policy changes to limit the amount of military-type purchases at the agency and work with Congress to determine how we can best consolidate our federal efforts to support enforcement of our Nation’s environmental laws. While Congress still must work to enact necessary reforms to ensure the further protection and proper utilization of federal tax dollars, EPA must be accountable and responsible for implementing common-sense policies to fund critical priorities at the agency. I urge you to implement changes in the purchase of this equipment and provide my office with an update on any progress you make throughout the rest of this Congress to accomplish this goal. I thank you for your consideration and look forward to working with you to address this important issue.”
11.06.2015	Today, after President Obama rejected the Keystone XL pipeline today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after President Obama rejected the Keystone XL pipeline today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “The President is wrong to reject the Keystone pipeline. Aside from the 42,000 ready-to-launch private sector American jobs the pipeline would create, Keystone is also a major step towards North American energy independence. Once again, the President is choosing to appease far-left factions of his party over the majority of Americans. This bipartisan issue is supported by large numbers in Congress, by Canada’s newly elected progressive, environmentalist Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, as well as labor unions throughout the United States. No pro-growth, pro-energy independence president would have rejected Keystone, and I encourage Congress to push back on this illogical decision from the White House.”
11.05.2015	Today, after the White House released the full text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after the White House released the full text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “As a result of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), Congress and the American people will now have the ability to review the TPP text. The accountability and transparency provided by TPA are an important part of ensuring any trade deal is in the best interest of our country, and I look forward to completely reviewing the text and hearing from constituents throughout this process.”
11.05.2015	Today, after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to go to conference with the Senate on a comprehensive, six-year highway bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after the U.S. House of Representatives voted to go to conference with the Senate on a comprehensive, six-year highway bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “Stop-gap, temporary highway bills are never a good solution. The American people deserve certainty from their elected officials that we can provide long-term authorization for planning our crucial infrastructure needs. Up-to-date roads, highways, and bridges are needed for economic development, and today we cleared a major hurdle in delivering that certainty. As this process moves on, I will work to pass a bill that supports needed infrastructure improvements with minimal burden on the hardworking American taxpayers.”
10.30.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced the addition of David Carnahan to his Little Rock office. David, a native Arkansan, is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps and the U.S. Army and was awarded the Air Medal of Valor for his actions in Operation Iraqi Freedom. David will serve as a District Representative for Military and Veterans Affairs. “I take great pride in being able to provide my constituents with timely responses and outstanding assistance to all of their requests and issues. Having a knowledgeable and enthusiastic staff is crucial to that mission, and the addition of David is a great benefit to the people of the Second Congressional District,” said Hill. “The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can be a difficult agency to navigate, but we are fortunate to have three decorated veterans on staff, all with their own unique experiences in dealing with VA. David joins a team of devoted caseworkers that work tirelessly to ensure the veterans of Central Arkansas are getting the benefits and care they have earned.”
10.30.2015	Today, after FINRA Chairman and CEO Rick Ketchum announced he would be retiring in 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after FINRA Chairman and CEO Rick Ketchum announced he would be retiring in 2016, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “I have known and respected Rick Ketchum for well over twenty years. He has dedicated much of his exceptional career to enhancing investor protection and working to ensure America's capital markets are competitive, liquid, and a source of economic strength. His leadership and expertise will be missed.”
10.29.2015	Today, after Congressman Paul Ryan was elected Speaker of the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement... share: f t Today, after Congressman Paul Ryan was elected Speaker of the House, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “Paul Ryan is the person best equipped to lead this Congress. Having served as Chairman of the Budget Committee and most recently as Chairman of the Ways & Means Committee, Congressman Ryan has proven to be an effective messenger and a committed conservative. I look forward to working with him to advance policies that enhance economic growth and support our national security, our consumers, and the millions of Americans that want a full-time job.”
10.28.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill released the following statement after voting against H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill released the following statement after voting against H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015: “Although I am grateful that our national security funding is better assured—and for two full years—and I am delighted with structural reforms to the Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) program—the first significant reforms to Social Security since 1983—I could not support the Bipartisan Budget Act, which raises the sequester caps and allows for an estimated $1.5 trillion increase in our national debt. “I have long supported the sequester caps and supported reallocation of spending under these caps. This proposal does not honor that principle and will increase the financial burden on future generations of Americans. These sorts of ‘budget deals’ make a mockery of the thousands of hours devoted to regular appropriations under an agreed upon budget resolution. Congress is in this position now because Democrats in the Senate have stymied regular appropriations in a timely way and the President’s insistence on more deficit spending for his domestic agenda. The good news with the passing of a budget deal is that it will be the last budget impasse precipitated by President Obama. “Although the budget deal has passed and will likely be signed into law, I remain dedicated to eliminating wasteful government spending while providing essential funding for critical requirements, such as national security. I fully expect Speaker-Designate Paul Ryan to lead in exercising Congress’s ‘power of the purse’ by insisting on a full and transparent appropriations process.”
10.27.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1090, the Retail Investor Protection Act, a bill that would halt the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) proposed fiduciary rule and require it to defer to the expertise of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1090, the Retail Investor Protection Act, a bill that would halt the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) proposed fiduciary rule and require it to defer to the expertise of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). After passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “DOL’s misguided and unworkable proposal is another example of the Administration reaching well beyond its traditional borders. The SEC has had the responsibility of overseeing financial advisers for decades and is the appropriate regulator for issues within its jurisdiction. The DOL proposal will adversely impact those trying to save for retirement by limiting consumer choice and access to sound financial advice while increasing costs for those who need it most. Hardworking people throughout Arkansas and the rest of the country need more savings and investment options for retirement, not fewer, and I am proud to support legislation that protects those investment options.”
10.22.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after President Barack Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2016... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after President Barack Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2016: “President Obama has stooped to a new low by choosing to advance his own domestic agenda over our national security interests. Largely due to his indecisive and ineffective foreign policy, America and her allies face unprecedented threats in the Middle East, East Asia, and Eastern Europe. Just last week, the President announced he would keep boots on the ground in Afghanistan, yet now, today, he has vetoed the legislation that authorizes pay and benefits for the men and women who fight our wars. This isn’t the type of action that is befitting of a Commander-in-Chief, and I encourage the House and Senate to override this veto.”
10.09.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 702, to adapt to changing crude oil market conditions, by a bipartisan vote of 261-159. After passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “The ban on crude oil exports in this country is outdated and provides no benefit to America or our allies throughout the world, and I am proud of the House’s work to end it. Today’s bill takes a critical step towards boosting economic development, creating more jobs, and strengthening our national security objectives. We have the resources to supply our NATO allies with North American energy and mitigate the national security risks that come with dependency on Russian and Middle Eastern oil. Ending this ban is a win for economic security and a win for national security, and I urge the President to rethink his veto threat.” Additional Information According to recent reports from IHS Inc. and the American Petroleum Institute, lifting the U.S. ban on crude oil exports would support up to 964,000 jobs, decrease domestic gas prices by 3.8 cents per gallon, reduce the trade deficit by $22 billion, and by 2020, increase government revenues by $13.5 billion. Additionally, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that by enacting H.R. 702, government spending would be reduced by $1.4 billion over the next ten years. Watch Rep. Hill’s floor statement in support of H.R. 702 ###
10.07.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, sponsored by Congressman French Hill (AR-2), by a bipartisan vote of 303-121. H.R. 3192 would provide a formal hold-harmless period for those making a good faith effort to comply with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (TILA-RESPA) Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule, which became effective on October 3, 2015. On November 20, 2013, the CFPB finalized TRID, which combined certain disclosures that consumers receive in applying for and closing on a residential mortgage loan, including disclosures required under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA). The effective date for the final rule was originally set for mortgage applications received on or after August 1, 2015, but due to “administrative errors,” the CFPB delayed the effective date until October 3, 2015. The settlement process is an integral piece of a real estate transition, so any glitch or delay in the process affects buyers and sellers and all parts of the real estate industry, including realtors, bankers, homebuilders, and title companies. Almost 300 Senators and House Members, including House Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters, wrote the CFPB to request a “grace period” through the end of the year for those seeking to comply with the rule in good faith. CFPB Director Richard Cordray has acknowledged that industry will not be perfect on the first day of implementation and that the CFPB would be diagnostic and corrective, rather than punitive, but he has stopped short of implementing a hold-harmless period. After the bill passed the House, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “This is a straightforward measure that will provide our title companies, bankers, and others in the industry who are earnestly trying to comply with the TRID rule the confidence and certainty needed to properly transition into this new closing regime. I am happy members on both sides of the aisle were able to come together and move legislation that will prevent costly market disruptions and delays for American homebuyers. I strongly urge the Senate to act immediately so we can shelter from punishment those acting in good faith to meet the criteria of this 1,888-page rule.” – Congressman French Hill American Land Title Association (ALTA), Arkansas Realtors Association, Arkansas Bankers Association, and Arkansas Land Title Association released the following statements in support of H.R. 3192: Passage of H.R. 3192 allows all mortgage lenders, title companies and Realtors to vigorously pursue residential real estate transactions without fear of predatory civil law suits. History has shown that the positive economic impact of each home purchase is significant with the creation of jobs for renovation, the manufacture and sale of home furnishings, and landscaping. – Wally Loveless, Legislative Committee Member, Arkansas Realtors Association “We thank Representative French Hill for his leadership in bringing this important bill to a House vote. There will be a learning curve as industry professionals adjust to the new requirements. Representative Hill understands the real world implications and the efforts of those working to implement such a complex regulation and hs bill will make a big difference for consumers.” – Michelle Korsmo, CEO, ALTA “Congressman Hill’s H.R. 3192 is sound legislation designed to allow bankers the appropriate time to fully implement all of the new TRID requirements. They can execute the new systems, forms and processes; and now will have the time necessary to test for quality assurance and an orderly transition of this complex new program that effects most residential mortgage transactions. With this delay of enforcement we can minimize the unintended negative impacts on consumers.” – Bill Holmes, President & CEO, Arkansas Bankers Association The Arkansas Land Title Association and its members thank Congressman Hill for spearheading this important bill. While the industry had 21 months to prepare for the new requirements, the rule prohibited the use of the new forms until after the Oct. 3 implementation date. Lenders and title companies are just now able to use the disclosures in real-world real estate transactions. Circumstances are likely to arise that have not yet been contemplated and industry professionals will need to determine how to resolve these unknown situations while complying with the 1,888-page TRID regulation. Representative Hill’s bill will reduce the likelihood that consumers will experience delays or disruptions when purchasing a home or refinancing a mortgage. – Jim Pender, President, Arkansas Land Title Association ### Additional Information White House absolutely wrong to threaten veto of TRID bill Groups in Support of H.R. 3192 American Bankers Association American Bankers Insurance Association American Escrow Association American Land Title Association Appraisal Institute Community Home Lenders Association Community Mortgage Lenders of America Consumer Bankers Association Consumer Mortgage Coalition Credit Union National Association Housing Policy Council of the Financial Services Roundtable Independent Community Bankers of America Mortgage Bankers Association National Association of Federal Credit Unions National Association of Home Builders National Association of Mortgage Brokers National Association of Realtors Real Estate Services Providers Council, Inc. The Appraisal Firm Coalition U.S. Chamber of Commerce
10.03.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) made the following statement on the day of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure Rule implementation: “I am encouraged that the CFPB and other financial regulators have acknowledged the need for some leniency for good-faith efforts to comply with an extremely complex rule. This acknowledgment underscores the need for a formal hold-harmless period to protect the mortgage industry while transitioning to this new closing regime and preventing costly market disruptions and delays for American homebuyers.” ### Additional Information House to vote on H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act (Sponsored by Rep. French Hill)
10.01.2015	Rep. Hill made the following statement after awarding September’s Golden Fleece to government unions: “Today’s award highlights the rampant unionization of government workers on the state and federal level that costs American taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars every year. According to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the federal government spent $157 million and 3.4 million man hours in fiscal year 2012 on union activities. These activities can often be political in nature, and the biggest spender was the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Already plagued with scandal and mistreatment of our Nation’s heroes while refusing to hold its employees accountable, the VA directed over $46 million of its budget to union activity. I know that many of our federal employees are dedicated public servants deserving of our gratitude, and I am committed to protecting their rights in the workplace, but we must also work to end the coercive influence of taxpayer-funded unions on our government.” ### Additional Information A recent report by the Competitive Enterprise Institute notes that for the first time, in 2009, “unionized government employees (7.9 million) outnumbered private sector union members (7.4 million)…even though there are five times as many workers in the private as in the public sector.” Further the report states: “This shift has incentivized unions to become more directly involved in politics and more radical in their demands.” Hill is a cosponsor of H.R. 1658, the Federal Employee Accountability Act, which was introduced by Rep. Jody Hice (R-GA) on March 26, 2015. If enacted, this bill would prohibit employees of the federal government from using official time to engage in collective bargaining, or participate in arbitration on behalf of a union against their employer. Additionally, Hill co-sponsored H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015, which would increase flexibility in removing VA employees for performance or misconduct.
10.01.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representative passed the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016: “Maintaining the strongest military force in the world is a top priority of this Congress. Today, I was proud to join my colleagues in authorizing continued funding of our military. The FY 2016 NDAA will increase accountability for taxpayer dollars being spent on training forces in Syria, provide funding to enhance our cyber warfare capabilities, and give crucial funding to assist the Ukrainian military. This bill also authorizes additional funds to be used for the National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account and accelerates the Blackhawk helicopter modernization plan, which is critical to our Army National Guard Aviation Units. “I am particularly pleased with the NDAA’s reauthorization of the prohibitions against transferring of Guantanamo Bay (GTMO) detainees to the United States. Last week, I visited GTMO and saw firsthand this safe and secure facility that holds the world’s most notorious agents of terror, and we must ensure its utilization in our ongoing fight against terrorism. “However, I am disappointed that my amendment to conduct a business case analysis on the Air Force’s decision to maintain 10 C-130J aircraft at Keesler Air Force Base was not included. One year ago Air Force officials highlighted the importance of Little Rock Air Force Base (LRAFB) and the cost savings and efficiencies that would be realized by relocating these aircraft to LRAFB, which is one of the most technologically advanced and well-run military installations in the entire country and is a center of excellence for our global airlift operations. Although I disagree with this decision, I will continue my work to ensure that LRAFB maintains its airlift capabilities, which are so essential to our entire military.” ###
09.25.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after Speaker of the House John Boehner announced his intention to retire from Congress at the end of October... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after Speaker of the House John Boehner announced his intention to retire from Congress at the end of October: “John Boehner is a dedicated representative of the people of Ohio and a good man. I am grateful for his work and leadership in Congress. Now, our party is faced with the challenge of identifying a solid conservative who is ready to lead us in our mission to reduce the size of government and promote an economic environment where all Americans can prosper. I know John and his wife, Debbie, are excited to spend more time with their first grandchild, and I wish them all the best as they transition into the next stage of their lives.”
09.24.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) attended Pope Francis’s address to the Joint Meeting of Congress in Washington D.C. Congressman Hill was accompanied by Msgr. Lawrence Frederick, a priest and teacher from the Congressman’s alma mater, Catholic High School for Boys in Little Rock. Father Frederick has been teaching at Catholic High for over 50 years. After the Pope’s address to Congress, Congressman Hill released the following statement... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) attended Pope Francis’s address to the Joint Meeting of Congress in Washington D.C. Congressman Hill was accompanied by Msgr. Lawrence Frederick, a priest and teacher from the Congressman’s alma mater, Catholic High School for Boys in Little Rock. Father Frederick has been teaching at Catholic High for over 50 years. After the Pope’s address to Congress, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “It was an inspiring and emotional morning to be a witness to this historic event. As a Catholic, it was an honor to be present at the Holy Father’s address to Congress, and the day was made even more special by the attendance of my invited guest, Father Fred. I’ve known this fine man and wonderful teacher since 1971, and he has been contributing mightily to my spiritual growth and development ever since. “This Pope is an ambassador of the best virtues of religion; he is a staunch believer in fighting complacency, corruption, and helping those in poor communities. These are convictions that all Americans hold dear, and I hope that the members of Congress present today and the millions watching on TV take the Holy Father’s words and use them to continue to do good in their daily lives.” ### Watch Congressman Hill’s Floor Statement Welcoming the Pope to the United States
09.23.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after returning from a Congressional Delegation visit to United States Naval Station Guantanamo Bay (GTMO): “My visit today to the detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay Cuba was enlightening and confirmed the continued need to hold dangerous agents of terrorism at this facility. During the visit, I assessed GTMO’s facilities and operations, including the status of detainee healthcare, dietary support, detention oversight, and housing conditions. “In my view, GTMO offers our Nation a safe and secure facility for the custody of perpetrators of terror including ruthless killers, bomb makers, the bomber of the USS Cole, and the 9/11 Five. Further, we have invested in state-of-the-art secure courtroom facilities that enable the proper adjudication of the detainees by military commission. GTMO remains a key national intelligence resource.” ###
09.18.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, which would immediately cut off federal funding to Planned Parenthood while Congress conducts its investigation into the organization... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, which would immediately cut off federal funding to Planned Parenthood while Congress conducts its investigation into the organization, and H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which would criminalize failure to provide medical care to children born alive during an abortion. Planned Parenthood has come under major scrutiny in recent months after videos surfaced showing Planned Parenthood officials discussing in grisly detail the sale of body parts from aborted fetuses. H.R. 3134 would divert funds from Planned Parenthood to other non-abortion providing Federally Qualified Health Centers (Community Health Centers) that offer women’s healthcare services to low-income and rural sectors of the state’s population. In Arkansas, there are only two Planned Parenthood clinics compared to 179 Community Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics. After passage of these bills, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “Until the investigation into Planned Parenthood is complete, we cannot in good conscience use taxpayer dollars to fund the organization. As a pro-life member of Congress and someone who strongly believes in good, responsible government, I am proud to support legislation that protects the rights of the unborn and increases funding to women’s health services at Community Health Centers across our state.” ###
09.16.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest said the President will veto legislation that would lift the ban on the export of crude oil from the United States: “The President needs to rethink his position on ending the crude oil ban. Growing the American economy through energy exports is a strategy that Republicans—and many Democrats—believe will work. We are experiencing record highs in energy production, including in crude oil production, and exporting that crude oil will create new jobs for people in Arkansas and throughout the country. Additionally, lifting the ban will benefit our national security interests by giving our allies—particularly in Europe—an option for oil outside of the terror-centric states in the Persian Gulf. Mr. President, do not veto this chance for U.S. energy to grow American jobs, reduce our trade deficit, and strengthen our national security objectives.” Additional Information Congressman Hill is an original cosponsor of H.R. 702, which would lift the current ban on crude oil exports. This bill has 132 bipartisan cosponsors, and the House plans to vote to lift the crude oil ban later this month. U.S. Chamber of Commerce: EIA’s Analysis Shows the Benefits of Lifting Crude Oil Export Ban ###
09.10.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Res. 411, Finding that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Res. 411, Finding that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015: “This Administration has a terrible habit of bypassing the Legislative Branch to impose its will on the American people. In an attempt to avoid this very situation with a potential Iranian Nuclear Deal, four months ago, Congress passed the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. It was supported by 177 House Democrats and was signed into law by the President. There is no ambiguity in the bill’s language; the State Department was required to turn over the entire nuclear agreement, including any agreements made between Iran and other parties. The President failed to comply with the law and once again is prepared to move forward with a major policy without Congressional approval. “I do not understand how any member of Congress can agree to support a nuclear deal with such high stakes without having seen the deal in its entirety. This is extremely irresponsible, and I encourage my Democratic colleagues to stand with the Republicans and demand that the secret side deals be released so that we can do our jobs and fully review all the contents of the proposed nuclear deal.” ### Section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015: AGREEMENT- The term `agreement' means an agreement related to the nuclear program of Iran that includes the United States, commits the United States to take action, or pursuant to which the United States commits or otherwise agrees to take action, regardless of the form it takes, whether a political commitment or otherwise, and regardless of whether it is legally binding or not, including any joint comprehensive plan of action entered into or made between Iran and any other parties, and any additional materials related thereto, including annexes, appendices, codicils, side agreements, implementing materials, documents, and guidance, technical or other understandings, and any related agreements, whether entered into or implemented prior to the agreement or to be entered into or implemented in the future.
08.28.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the U.S. District Court of North Dakota granted a preliminary injunction against the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) “waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule, which was scheduled to go into effect this week: “This Administration has consistently exceeded its authority and ignored input from relevant stakeholders when making crucial decisions affecting the American people and our economy. In the case of the WOTUS rule, our state and local communities know best how to regulate and manage our natural resources. Judge Erickson’s injunction is an important first step in stopping this regulatory overreach from causing major economic harm to farmers and ranchers in Arkansas and across America.” ###
08.18.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge announced the formation of the Cooperative Disability Investigations (CDI) Program... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge announced the formation of the Cooperative Disability Investigations (CDI) Program: “I am encouraged by Attorney General Rutledge’s willingness to take action locally on this important issue. As government continues to usher in a new era of increased accountability and smarter management of taxpayer resources, we need better cooperation between federal and state agencies to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse. The Attorney General’s announcement of the CDI program ensures we are taking steps to successfully investigate and root out fraud in Social Security disability benefits. I look forward to working with the state to support these efforts to protect taxpayer dollars and provide essential benefits to those individuals with disabilities that need and rely on them.” ###
08.04.2015	Last week, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) joined 51 of his colleagues on a letter calling for the resignation of Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen. After signing onto the letter, Congressman Hill released the following statement... share: f t Last week, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) joined 51 of his colleagues on a letter calling for the resignation of Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen. After signing onto the letter, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “Under the leadership of Commissioner Koskinen, the IRS has continuously misled the American people and obstructed Congress in its investigations about the targeting of taxpayers on the basis of their political beliefs. Private citizens should not fear discrimination from government, especially by an entity as powerful as the IRS. Instead of tirelessly working to reform the agency, the Commissioner has worked tirelessly to protect the reputations of those who oversaw these misconducts. It is time he resigns and is replaced with someone who is serious about restoring the people’s trust in their government.” ###
07.29.2015	Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which would provide a temporary legal safe harbor for those making a good-faith effort to comply with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) new mortgage disclosure rule—the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule—which is set to take effect on October 3, 2015... share: f t Today, the House Financial Services Committee passed H.R. 3192, the Homebuyers Assistance Act, which would provide a temporary legal safe harbor for those making a good-faith effort to comply with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) new mortgage disclosure rule—the TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosure (TRID) rule—which is set to take effect on October 3, 2015. On November 20, 2013, the CFPB finalized TRID, which combined certain disclosures that consumers receive in applying for and closing on a residential mortgage loan, including disclosures required under the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA). The effective date for the final rule was originally set for mortgage applications received on or after August 1, 2015, but due to “administrative errors,” the CFPB delayed the effective date until October 3, 2015. The settlement process is an integral piece of a real estate transition, so any glitch or delay in the process affects buyers and sellers and all parts of the real estate industry, including realtors, bankers, homebuilders, and title companies. Almost 300 Senators and House Members wrote the CFPB to request a formal hold-harmless period. H.R. 3192 does not delay implementation of the TRID rule, but rather, provides a temporary safe harbor to those who are making a good faith effort to comply until February 1, 2016. Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the bill passed the Committee by a bipartisan vote of 45-13: “While I appreciate the CFPB’s willingness to be sensitive to real estate and mortgage industry concerns regarding TRID implementation, a formal hold-harmless period is necessary to hold them to their word and guarantee no punishment for good-faith compliance efforts. Any substantial change presents compliance challenges, and there will not be an opportunity to test new systems and forms necessary to implement this very complex rule. This temporary grace period will allow the industry to work with the CFPB to help ensure a smooth transition and prevent costly market disruptions and delays for consumers. I thank my colleagues, Congressmen Pearce and Sherman, for their work on this commonsense bill to ensure real estate closings are not disrupted.” - Congressman French Hill First Security Bancorp, Arkansas Realtors Association, Arkansas Bankers Association, Mortgage Bankers Association, and American Land Title Association (ALTA), released the following statements in support of H.R. 3192: “We support the legislation to provide absolute confidence to the housing industry as they implement a most complex rule. While the Bureau has conveyed a commitment to not aggressively enforce, this would provide that clarity to make certain that lending continues while a very complex set of new disclosures gets implemented.” - David H. Stevens, President and Chief Executive Office, Mortgage Bankers Association “ALTA and its 5,700 member companies applaud Reps. French Hill and Brad Sherman for introducing the Homeowners Assistance Act, H.R. 3192. This bipartisan legislation provides a reasonable hold-harmless period for enforcement for those in our industry making a good faith effort to comply with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s (CFPB) TILA-RESPA Integrated Disclosures (TRID) rule. We urge the House of Representatives to pass the Homebuyers Assistance Act immediately to prevent unnecessary, frustrating and sometimes costly delays for consumers and to ensure our industry continues to meet the needs of our customers.” - Michelle Korsmo, Chief Executive Office, ALTA “Realtors are delighted that Congressman Hill is sponsoring the Homebuyers Assistance Act. The hold-harmless period helps ensure consumers' real estate purchases won't be disrupted after the October 3rd effective date as it protects settlement service providers, mortgage lenders and other service providers from unwarranted exposure. And that is good for buyers, sellers and Arkansas.” - Wally Loveless, Legislative Committee Member, Arkansas Realtors Association “Congressman Hill’s bill will give our banks the ability to continue to serve our customers and our communities, and to properly set up the new systems without having to greatly lengthen the already too long required paperwork processes. This bill will help our communities continue to recover and expand. We thank Congressman Hill for his leadership and understanding of community banking.” - Bill Holmes, President & CEO, Arkansas Bankers Association “Due to the complexity of the changes and with the increased time, it is becoming very apparent that our software provider is struggling to say the least. I am not confident that we can make all of the required changes by October 3.” – James K. Taylor Sr., Vice President, First Security Bancorp Groups in Support of H.R. 3192 American Bankers Association American Bankers Insurance Association American Escrow Association American Land Title Association Appraisal Institute Community Home Lenders Association Community Mortgage Lenders of America Consumer Bankers Association Consumer Mortgage Coalition Credit Union National Association Housing Policy Council of the Financial Services Roundtable Independent Community Bankers of America Mortgage Bankers Association National Association of Federal Credit Unions National Association of Home Builders National Association of Mortgage Brokers National Association of Realtors Real Estate Services Providers Council, Inc. The Appraisal Firm Coalition U.S. Chamber of Commerce ###
07.29.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015. H.R. 1994 gives the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) additional authority to remove any VA employee based on performance or misconduct, increases whistleblower protection, and grants employees a fair review process for any termination. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill released the below statement: “As a former executive in private business, I know firsthand the true value of accountability in the workplace. The success of any operation—whether it is in the private sector or in government—is dependent upon the employees and management being held to the highest standards possible. “In response to the most horrific scandal in Department history, it took a year before a single employee was fired for manipulating wait times for veterans seeking VA healthcare. This legislation gives the Secretary every resource possible to remove the bad actors that are wasting taxpayer dollars, scarring the reputation of the Department, and harming veterans. VA and the President are officially out of excuses for why they can’t swiftly weed out dishonest or incompetent employees. ” ###
07.28.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act of 2015 (REINS), by a vote of 243-165... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act of 2015 (REINS), by a vote of 243-165. H.R. 427 would require Congress to approve any regulatory rule that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) deems will produce more than $100 million or more in impacts on the U.S. economy. Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI) reported that in 2014, 3,554 rules were issued by federal agencies, and the compliance and economic costs of federal government regulations is $1.88 trillion annually—more than $14,900 per household in America, and according to American Action Forum, a Washington, D.C. based think tank, Dodd-Frank rules, alone, could reduce economic growth by $895 billion in the next ten years. Under current law, these rules do not require Congressional approval before they may be implemented by the executive. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill released the below statement: “The regulatory costs of the Obama Administration’s major rules are hurting Arkansas’s small businesses and manufacturers. Today’s bill provides Congress, not unelected officials, with the authority to eliminate these major rules before they harm our economy. This ensures more accountability and much-needed transparency to the rule-making process, while giving local businesses the relief they need from harmful and unnecessary regulations.” ###
07.21.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement on the 5th anniversary of President Obama signing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act into law... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement on the 5th anniversary of President Obama signing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act into law: “Under the promise of ending future bank bailouts, enhancing consumer protection, and boosting our overall economy, the President signed Dodd-Frank into law. Five years later, the concept of “too-big-to-fail” is stronger than ever, we are losing community financial institutions at a rate of about one per day, business formation is at the lowest point since the Carter Administration, and consumers are hurt by fewer choices and higher fees. “Hardworking people throughout Arkansas and the rest of the country were sold a bill of goods on Dodd-Frank, and instead of addressing the true cause of the crisis—misguided housing policy— the law has only increased burdensome regulation and restricted Main Street’s access to much-needed credit and capital. “It is time for Congress to listen and work together to fix Dodd-Frank and enact policies that guarantee a safe and sound financial system, enhance U.S. competitiveness, and ensure consumers have access to safe and affordable credit.” ###
07.14.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the Administration announced the final nuclear deal with Iran... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement after the Administration announced the final nuclear deal with Iran: “I have been skeptical about this negotiation from the beginning, as it has fundamental and long-term consequences for our Nation, our allies, and the region. Congress now must exercise its oversight responsibilities and assess the proposal’s most critical elements related to snap-back bilateral and multilateral sanctions, international inspections and access, the status of the four Americans currently held as prisoners in Iran, and the potential $140 billion windfall for the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. “As I have said repeatedly, Iran is not our friend, and, in my view, any deal that does not fully dismantle their nuclear program is not in the best interest of the United States and her strategic allies throughout the world.”
07.10.2015	Today, after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, by a bipartisan vote of 344-77, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement:.. share: f t Today, after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, by a bipartisan vote of 344-77, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “Every Arkansan knows someone who has faced, or is facing, the daunting challenge of battling an illness that has no known cure. This bill provides critical funding in a deficit-reducing manner to the National Institutes of Health and ensures that great research institutions like Little Rock’s University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children’s Hospital can sustain their search for cures to the diseases that cost our health care system and hardworking Americans billions of dollars and take millions of lives each year. For centuries, advances in medical science have turned the deadliest of diseases into easily curable ailments, and I am pleased that, on a bipartisan basis, the House has renewed its commitment to giving people hope in their fights against disease.” ### The 21st Century Cures Act is supported by over 700 groups. For more information click here.
07.08.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. H.R. 5 includes amendments that will ensure states’ ability to opt out of Common Core and allow parents to opt their children out of federal testing requirements... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, the Student Success Act. H.R. 5 includes amendments that will ensure states’ ability to opt out of Common Core and allow parents to opt their children out of federal testing requirements. After passage, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The Administration’s one-size-fits-all, top-down approach for our Nation’s education system has burdened our local school districts, hindered the education of students in Arkansas, limited choices for parents, and obstructed innovation by teachers in the classroom. I have long held the belief the federal government shouldn’t dictate the standards and testing practices of states educating students in America. This bill gives states and local school districts the autonomy and flexibility to provide students with an effective education, while empowering Arkansas students, teachers, and parents, not bureaucrats from Washington.” ###
07.02.2015	This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced the U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA) as the second recipient of the newly reestablished Golden Fleece Award. share: f t This week, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) announced the U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA) as the second recipient of the newly reestablished Golden Fleece Award. A recent SSA Office of Inspect General audit found that over a ten-year period, nearly four million beneficiaries of SSA disability programs were provided an estimated $16.8 billion in overpayments. Earlier this week Congressman Hill sent Carolyn Colvin, Acting Commissioner of the SSA, a letter congratulating her agency on “winning” the award. The following is the full text of the letter: I am writing to congratulate the U.S. Social Security Administration (SSA) for receiving the reestablished Golden Fleece Award! The Golden Fleece Award, first implemented by Senator William Proxmire, highlights wasteful government spending by our Nation’s federal agencies. An audit released by the Office of Inspector General this month found that over a ten year period, nearly 4 million beneficiaries of SSA disability programs were provided with an estimated $16.8 billion in overpayments. The audit notes that SSA assessed overpayments for nearly half of the 1,532 sampled beneficiaries. The reasons for overpayment included issuing payments following a death of the beneficiary, issuing payments to prisoners or fugitive felons, medical improvement of the beneficiary, or increased work activity of the beneficiary. At a time when our Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) program is facing a significant funding shortfall, it is essential that we ensure these precious taxpayer funds are going to help eligible individuals who are truly in need of these benefits. Under current law, the SSDI trust fund will be depleted by 2016, resulting in a 20 percent cut to benefits. Of course, like you, I do not want to see a sudden reduction in these important SSDI benefits that many individuals with disabilities rely on. That is why it is so critical to ensure that these dollars are not wasted on those who are no longer disabled or have returned to work and are no longer eligible to receive these benefits. I am committed to eradicating this type of inefficient and ineffective spending and today’s Golden Fleece highlights the mismanagement of these essential taxpayer dollars. I invite your immediate attention to this issue, and please keep me apprised of your efforts at improvement.
06.25.2015	U.S. Senator John Boozman and Congressman French Hill (AR-02), introduced companion legislation today to name the Perryville Post Office in honor of Sergeant Harold George Bennett, a Perryville native. Sgt. Bennett spent 179 days as a POW during the Vietnam War and his captors executed him on June 25, 1965. Today marks the 50th anniversary of his death. “Sgt. Bennett was a true American hero whose hometown seeks to honor him with this tribute. This post office designation will honor Sgt. Bennett’s service and sacrifice and reflect the appreciation we share for his courage and contributions to our country,” Boozman said. “Sergeant Harold George Bennett is a highly decorated war hero whose military service is deserving of a tribute that will last for generations to come. Naming this post office after Sgt. Bennett is a small token of our immeasurable appreciation for his and his family’s commitment to this Nation,” Hill said. Sgt. Bennett served as a Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV) advisor during the war operating out of South Vietnam. On December 29, 1964, during a firefight with Viet Cong guerillas, Sgt. Bennett was taken prisoner. ###
06.25.2015	Today, following the Supreme Court’s decision on King v. Burwell, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement... share: f t Today, following the Supreme Court’s decision on King v. Burwell, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement: “Today’s decision is disappointing, but it doesn’t change the fact that the President’s healthcare law is bad policy that is increasing costs and reducing patient choice for millions of Americans. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate to pass real, patient-centered healthcare reform that is both affordable and consumer friendly.” ###
06.18.2015	Today, the House passed H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, which repeals Obamacare’s 2.3 percent excise tax on the manufacturer, producer, or importer of covered medical devices, by a vote of 280-140... share: f t Today, the House passed H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, which repeals Obamacare’s 2.3 percent excise tax on the manufacturer, producer, or importer of covered medical devices, by a vote of 280-140. Following passage of H.R. 160, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the following statement: “The Medical Device Tax is yet another failed policy of Obamacare that not only stifles innovation and costs good-paying jobs, but also threatens access to live-saving and life-improving devices, on which many Americans depend. I am proud to be an original cosponsor and strongly encourage the Senate and President follow our lead and do their parts to ensure this unnecessary tax is repealed.” ###
06.18.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives again voted to renew Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Following passage of TPA, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement.... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives again voted to renew Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Following passage of TPA, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “I am encouraged that the House has found a way to revive TPA despite the President’s inability to convince House Democrats on the importance of increased congressional oversight when negotiating trade agreements. Beyond the much-needed congressional oversight for the President’s trade negotiators, TPA also provides a greater opportunity for America to thrive in today’s global economy. With 95 percent of the world’s customers living outside of the United States, we need to structure favorable trade deals that pry open markets for American goods and services in other parts of the world. Bottom line: moving forward with TPA supports Arkansas’s farmers, manufacturers, and economy.” ### Related Hill Votes to Create More Jobs, More Transparency in Trade Negotiations Additional Information Summary of TPA from House Ways and Means Committee Heritage Foundation: TPA Advances Economic Freedom Paul Ryan and Ted Cruz: TPA Puts Congress in Charge of Trade CATO: Trade Promotion Authority Is not an Executive Power Grab CATO: Top Nine Myths About Trade Promotion Authority And The Trans-Pacific Partnership ###
06.16.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) wrote a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert A. McDonald... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Robert A. McDonald today urging him to find a permanent Medical Center Director for the Central Arkansas Veterans Health System (CAVHS). After sending the letter, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “Improving services for veterans has been a major focus for Congress and the Administration. Considerable resources have been spent to ensure higher quality of healthcare and better access to that care. However, when VA healthcare networks are operating without permanent leadership, veterans begin to lose trust in the system and recent bipartisan reforms are in vain. I urge the Secretary to appoint a permanent director of the Central Arkansas Veterans Health System and give Arkansas’s veterans greater certainty in their healthcare.” You can see the full text of the letter VASecLetter.pdf. ###
06.12.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to renew Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Since 1974, Congress has used TPA to establish a process for negotiating and considering trade agreements... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to renew Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). Since 1974, Congress has used TPA to establish a process for negotiating and considering trade agreements. This bipartisan bill expands Congress’s role by setting clean negotiating objectives and requiring the President to engage in a more open and transparent negotiating process for any future trade deals, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (T-TIP), which are currently being negotiated. As public concern mounts over the secrecy of these trade deals, TPA serves as a solution that increases the transparency of these deals by creating the congressional blueprint for negotiations and providing formal publication for ample congressional and public review, as well as the authority to stop them if they are not in the best interest of the American people. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “One of the loudest criticisms surrounding TPA is that it gives the President unlimited power in negotiating trade deals. This is simply not true. TPA strengthens the system of checks and balances in the Federal Government and gives Congress and the American people a say in trade negotiations. With TPA, we are, in fact, intensifying—not weakening—congressional oversight to all future trade negotiations. “Currently, trade supports more than 38 million American jobs and over 27,000 jobs in Arkansas. We have an opportunity to grow this number and significantly expand our local and national economies. With 95 percent of the world’s consumers living outside of the United States, favorable trade agreements give farmers and manufacturers in Arkansas easier access to billions of new customers. TPA is the first step in fighting to open these markets. “I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House to ensure that trade deals are favorable for American and Arkansan families and that American workers and innovators lead and thrive in today’s global economy.” ### Additional Information Summary of TPA from House Ways and Means Committee Heritage Foundation: TPA Advances Economic Freedom Paul Ryan and Ted Cruz: TPA Puts Congress in Charge of Trade CATO: Trade Promotion Authority Is not an Executive Power Grab CATO: Top Nine Myths About Trade Promotion Authority And The Trans-Pacific Partnership
06.03.2015	U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—today announced that 11 Arkansas airports have been awarded more than $6.5 million from the Department of Transportation to support facility upgrades and expansions... share: f t Contact: Sara Lasure, Boozman, 202-224-4843 Cotton – Caroline Rabbitt 202-224-2353 Crawford, James Arnold 202-225-4076 Hill – Mike Siegel, 202- 225-2506 Womack – Claire Burghoff, 202-225-4301 Westerman – Ryan Saylor, 202-225-3772 LITTLE ROCK - U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton—along with Congressmen Rick Crawford, French Hill, Steve Womack and Bruce Westerman—today announced that 11 Arkansas airports have been awarded more than $6.5 million from the Department of Transportation to support facility upgrades and expansions. “Transportation infrastructure is vital for local commerce and private sector job growth,” Boozman said. “Arkansas will benefit from these airport improvements because they will help accommodate future development throughout the state.” "Local airports are a critical part of Arkansas’s infrastructure system and I applaud the Department of Transportation’s selection of these 11 deserving Arkansas airports,” Cotton said. "Modern airport infrastructure paves the way for regional growth by allowing local businesses and tourism to flourish,” Crawford said. “Our local communities will be well served by these improvements that set the stage for job growth and increase connectivity throughout our state." "Today’s announcement awarding grants for infrastructure improvements at the airports in White and Saline counties will be a boost towards our state’s long-term economic goals. Upgrading these facilities will help us recruit new industry to central Arkansas, while enhancing air safety for those traveling in and out of our state," Hill said. “In the state of Arkansas, rural communities matter, and I am pleased to announce these Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) grants which ensure our rural communities – and especially Russellville, which is uniquely situated to become one of Arkansas’s most dynamic cities – can remain accessible through safe and modernized municipal airports and continue to grow,” Womack said. “I am pleased these grants are coming home to Arkansas. Without strong infrastructure, we cannot expect our economy to grow,” Westerman said. “This investment at home will help these communities add jobs and opportunity.” The airports receiving funding are as follows: Ash Flat: Sharp County Regional Airport will receive $440,325 to rehabilitate the airport apron and runway. Benton: Saline County Regional Airport will receive $528,183 to expand the airport apron. Clarendon: Clarendon Municipal Airport will receive $206,764 to extend taxiway. Clinton: Clinton Municipal Airport will receive $194,776 to install taxiway lighting. Corning: Corning Municipal Airport will receive $244,332 to rehabilitate the airport apron. De Witt: De Witt Municipal Airport will receive $335,250 to expand and rehabilitate the airport apron. Newport: Newport Municipal Airport will receive $557,072 to install airfield guidance signs, miscellaneous NAVAIDS and to rehabilitate the runway. Russellville: Russellville Regional Airport will receive $124,184 to acquire land for approaches. Searcy: Searcy Municipal Airport will receive $150,00 to rehabilitate the airport runway. Texarkana: Texarkana Regional –Webb Field will receive $3,403,151 to rehabilitate the airport runway. Waldron: Waldron Municipal Airport will receive $318,812 to rehabilitate the airport runway.
05.19.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2353, Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, by a vote of 387-35... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2353, Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, by a vote of 387-35. H.R. 2353 is a short-term extension through the end of July to authorize funding to the Highway Trust Fund. Currently, the Highway Trust Fund is scheduled to run out at the end of this month. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement: “A 21st century system of roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, and railroads is essential to a 21st century economy. Unfortunately, our current infrastructure is outdated and will continue to limit our economic capabilities until it receives a serious makeover. While today’s vote is not the final answer to this problem, it will give Congress the time needed to create a long-term solution that puts no additional burden on the taxpayer, encourages job growth, and promotes commerce throughout Arkansas and the rest of the country.” ###
05.18.2015	This week, the House Committee on Financial Services will meet to markup H.R. 2356, the Fair Access to Investment Research Act, a bill introduced last week by Congressman French Hill (AR-02) and Congressman John Carney (DE-At Large). H.R. 2536 would direct the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to provide a safe harbor for research reports that cover Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) so that the reports would not be considered “offers” under the Securities Act of 1933. Over the past three decades, ETFs have grown from about 100 funds with $100 billion in assets to over 1300 funds with $1.8 trillion in assets. However, due to anomalies in the securities laws and regulations, most broker-dealers do not publish research on ETFs, despite their growth in popularity. H.R. 2356 would clarify the law to allow broker-dealers to publish research on ETFs and increasing access to investment information for consumers. After introducing the bill, Congressman Hill and Congressman Carney released the following statements: “As someone who has spent the past three decades in the banking and investment industry, I have witnessed firsthand the explosive growth in ETFs. This commonsense bill, which mirrors other research safe harbors implemented by the SEC, will provide clarity to the law and allow investors to access useful information in this rapidly growing market. I appreciate the support of Congressman Carney and thank the Committee for its efforts to promote capital formation, remove unnecessary burdens, and grow jobs and the economy.” – Congressman French Hill “This legislation is a good example of a simple fix that just makes sense. Passing this legislation will mean investors have more and better information in a growing area of investment. The SEC has been considering a policy like this for years – it’s past time to make this change. I’m glad to work across the aisle with Congressman Hill on a proposal that’s straightforward, logical, and necessary.” – Congressman John Carney ###
05.15.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), by a bipartisan vote of 269-151. This year’s NDAA will provide the resources to continue our mission to defeat ISIL and other terrorist groups, as well as improve pay and benefits for troops and their families. Also passed in this year’s NDAA was an amendment offered by Congressman French Hill (AR-2) that would require the U.S. Air Force (USAF) to conduct a business case analysis of its decision to maintain 10 C-130J aircraft at Keesler Air Force Base in Mississippi. Following passage of the amendment, Hill released the below statement: “The Little Rock Air Force Base is one of the most technologically advanced and well-run military installations in the entire country and, in my view, is clearly a center of excellence for our global airlift operations. Prior to their decision to maintain the aircraft at Keesler, Air Force officials highlighted the importance of LRAFB and the cost savings and efficiencies that would be realized by relocating the ten C-130J aircraft to Little Rock. Our military is facing severe budget limitations, and Congress must ensure that we are effectively utilizing hardworking taxpayer dollars for our national defense priorities. In conducting this business case analysis, the Department of Defense will be assuring the American people that it is committed to its national defense goals of having the most efficient and effective military in the world.” ###
05.14.2015	The Department of Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General (VAOIG) notified U.S. Senator John Boozman (R-AR) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) that it will add the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) to its national project on VA’s Green Management Program Solar Panel Projects after the lawmakers detailed problems with the facility’s renewable energy program. “VA is working to reestablish its trust with veterans and taxpayers. However, the misuse of taxpayer dollars we have seen with the solar panel project at the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center undermines the public’s confidence in VA and wastes resources that are supposed to help our veterans. It is my hope that this evaluation will lead to recommendations for improvements to ensure this doesn’t happen again,” Boozman said. “The solar panel project at the Little Rock VA has raised many unanswered questions, and I am hopeful that the VAOIG’s review of this and similar projects across the country will provide Arkansans and Americans with the answers they deserve. I am committed to increasing accountability and efficiency throughout the entire VA to ensure funds are properly allocated so that our Nation’s veterans to receive the benefits and care they deserve,” Hill said. In letters to the legislators the Deputy Inspector General says he expects the national review to be completed early next year. The members wrote a letter to the VAOIG in April detailing their concerns about the Little Rock VAMC’s solar panels after their compatibility failed with the electricity grid and were built in a location that conflicted with another construction project. ###
05.13.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2048, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ensuring Effective Discipline Over Monitoring (USA FREEDOM) Act of 2015... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2048, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ensuring Effective Discipline Over Monitoring (USA FREEDOM) Act of 2015, by a vote of 338-88. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement: “The safety and well-being of the American people are paramount, and so are the constitutional rights of private citizens. This bill ensures the effective tracking of terrorists while ending bulk data collection by our intelligence agencies. It also increases transparency of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court to create a healthy balance between our critical national security interests and an essential confidence in individual privacy rights. I am proud to support the bill and will continue to work to promote our national security interests while ensuring constitutional protections.” ###
05.12.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, by a vote of 261-155... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, by a vote of 261-155. The bill was introduced in response to the Administration’s proposed rule that would give the federal government expanded authority over land and water resources across the country. Following passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-02) released the below statement: “The ‘WOTUS’ rule is just another example of the Administration’s obsession with making drastic judgments without consultation with Congress, state and local governments, and other relevant stakeholders. Our states and local communities know best how to regulate and manage our natural resources. I have heard from numerous Arkansans who have expressed their concerns about this rule’s vast expansion of federal jurisdiction that could severely impact our local communities and economies. This essential bill seeks to restore Federalism and prevent this rule from furthering the uncertainty caused by excessive federal regulation in our states and communities.” ###
04.30.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to S. Con. Res.11, Establishing the budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2016 and Setting forth Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2017 through 2025, by a vote of 226-197... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to S. Con. Res.11, Establishing the budget for the United States Government for Fiscal Year 2016 and Setting forth Appropriate Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Years 2017 through 2025, by a vote of 226-197. Following passage of the resolution, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “The House cleared the final hurdle on the grueling road towards passing a budget. Now, for the first time in nearly 14 years, the House and Senate will pass a 10-year balanced budget that sets the stage to send a full repeal of the President’s healthcare law to the President’s desk. By passing this balanced budget that eliminates wasteful government spending, repeals Obamacare, preserves Social Security and Medicare for current beneficiaries and future generations, and commits to providing a strong national defense, we are helping hardworking families thrive in America and putting our Nation back on the path to prosperity.” ###
04.28.2015	Yesterday, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced the three winners for this year’s Congressional Art Competition for Arkansas’s Second Congressional District. The winners are as follows... share: f t Yesterday, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced the three winners for this year’s Congressional Art Competition for Arkansas’s Second Congressional District. The winners are as follows: First place: Ivy Cox of Little Rock (Episcopal Collegiate School) Second place: Kylie Beaty of Vilonia (Vilonia High School) Third place: Alex Stroud of Conway (Vilonia High School) The first place piece will be hung in the tunnel between Cannon House Office Building and the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington D.C. for one year. Following the announcement, Congressman Hill released the below statement: “I am very proud of all of the young artists that submitted entries into the competition for their creativity and willingness to participate. Being able to effectively express yourself through art is an exceptional and rare skill to have. I am truly impressed and inspired to see the level of talent of our central Arkansas students, and I look forward to being reminded of that every day as I walk past Ivy’s painting on my way to and from the U.S. Capitol.” ###
04.28.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced his staff will be conducting mobile office hours throughout the Second Congressional District this week... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced his staff will be conducting mobile office hours throughout the Second Congressional District this week. Staff members will be in the towns of Morrilton, Perryville, Clinton, Searcy, Benton, Greenbrier, and Jacksonville to assist constituents with casework, as well as answer questions they may have about the current Congress. “One of the most important aspects of my job is assisting and being accessible to all constituents, and mobile office hours are a great way to expand our outreach and ensure every voice is being heard,” said Hill. “These office hours will allow my staff to assist Arkansans that require help with a federal agency, or answer important questions about my work in Congress while bringing all the functions of a district office to the cities, towns, and neighborhoods of central Arkansas.” Wednesday, April 29, 2015 Mobile Office Hours at the Morrilton Chamber of Commerce 115 East Broadway Street, Morrilton, Arkansas 72110 10 AM CT to 12 PM CT Mobile Office Hours at the Perryville City Hall 613 North Fourche Ave, Perryville, AR 72126 10 AM CT to 12 PM CT Mobile Office Hours at the Van Buren County Judge’s Office Quorum Court Room, Van Buren County Judge’s Office, 1414 Hwy 65, Clinton, AR 2 PM CT to 4 PM CT Thursday, April 30, 2015 Mobile Office Hours at the Searcy Regional Chamber of Commerce 2323 S Main St, Searcy, AR 72143 10 AM CT to 12 PM CT Mobile Office Hours at the Saline County Courthouse 200 N. Main Street, Benton, AR 72015 2 PM CT to 4 PM CT Friday, May 1, 2015 Mobile Office Hours at the Greenbrier City Hall 11 Wilson Farm Road, Greenbrier, AR 72058 10 AM CT to 12 PM CT Mobile Office Hours at the Jacksonville Community Center 5 Municipal Drive, Jacksonville, AR 72076 10 AM CT to 12 PM CT
04.22.2015	Today, after the House passed H.R. 1195, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Board Act, by a vote of 235-183, Congressman French Hill released the following statement... share: f t Today, after the House passed H.R. 1195, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Advisory Board Act, by a vote of 235-183, Congressman French Hill released the following statement: “As a former community banker, I know firsthand the importance of the relationship between community banks and small businesses, and the positive impact that relationship has on local economies across Arkansas and America. However, the expansive list of regulations created by Dodd-Frank has hurt community banks, lessened consumer choice, and constrained capital and affordability for small businesses. This bill would ensure small businesses, as well as credit unions and community banks, have a voice to provide input on rules that directly impact their ability grow and succeed.”
04.20.2015	U.S. Senator John Boozman (R-AR) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) urged the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General (VAIOG) to evaluate the planning process for renewable energy programs, like the solar panels at the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC), to ensure these taxpayer funded projects are able to work once constructed... share: f t U.S. Senator John Boozman (R-AR) and Congressman French Hill (AR-02) urged the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of the Inspector General (VAIOG) to evaluate the planning process for renewable energy programs, like the solar panels at the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC), to ensure these taxpayer funded projects are able to work once constructed. Little Rock’s VAMC received an $8 million grant to the build solar panels, but since construction was completed in 2013, they were never activated because they were not compatible with the local electricity grid. “We have a number of concerns with this project. First, it appears that there was a significant lack of planning and due diligence on the part of VA by installing a solar photovoltaic system that was incompatible with the local electricity grid. Second, we do not understand why VA would proceed with a construction project that was knowingly in conflict with another pending construction project,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter to the VAIOG. Boozman and Hill are aggressively using their authority to provide oversight and requested that the inspector general recommend any legislative and regulatory changes that Congress can make to prevent similar situations from happening in the future. The following is full text of the letter: The Honorable Richard J. Griffin Deputy Inspector General U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 801 I Street, NW Washington, DC 20001 Dear Mr. Griffin: We request that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of the Inspector General (VAOIG) investigate the situation at the Little Rock Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) that has recently come to our attention. According to recent news reports and information from the VA, in February 2012, VA received and designated an $8 million grant to build a 1.8 megawatt solar photovoltaic (PV) system in the parking lot of the Little Rock VAMC. This construction project was completed in 2013; however, the PV system has never been activated and construction of a new parking garage has resulted in the tearing down and proposed relocation of a number of the solar panels for the PV system. As you may be aware, reports about the PV system have highlighted the need for additional engineering changes to ensure compatibility of the PV system with the local electricity grid. Further reports have also indicated that, prior to the construction of the solar panels at the Little Rock VAMC, a construction proposal for a new parking garage had been submitted for approval and subsequently approved in August 2012. The proposed area for where the parking garage would be constructed conflicted with the area designated for the solar panels. The plans for the parking garage purportedly contained a provision for relocating the solar panels to the roof of the parking garage, but the solar panel system was still constructed even after receiving approval to build the parking garage. It is now clear that the parking garage, which is currently under construction and expected to be completed in 2016, will require the removal and relocation of some or all of the solar panels. It has been two years since the planned activation of the PV system, and many questions remain unanswered about the project and when the VA plans to fully implement this supposed cost saving system to provide energy for the facility. We have a number of concerns and questions regarding this project, and it is essential that we ensure accountability and transparency when utilizing precious taxpayer dollars to support these extensive and costly government projects. We request that the VAOIG: Evaluate the planning process for these renewable energy programs to ensure that there are safeguards in place that prevent projects from proceeding without first establishing that the project will be able to fully function for its intended purpose once constructed. Determine what, if any, safeguards exist within VA construction planning to ensure that other approved and proposed construction projects at VA facilities do not conflict with ongoing projects. We are especially concerned about the Little Rock VAMC situation because it appears that VA officials knew in advance that these two projects conflicted and decided to proceed. We cannot conceive of how such a decision was deemed acceptable and approved in light of the fact that the parking garage was approved prior to breaking ground on the solar panel construction. Determine how the contractor for this PV system was selected and whether this contractor has been selected for any of the other 91 solar PV system projects listed under the VA’s Green Management Program. We request that the VAOIG also investigate the performance features of the contract. We must determine any lessons to be taken from this episode that may be applicable to these other projects. Determine if there are any legislative or regulatory changes that need to be made to help VA avoid similar failures in the future. Provide our offices with a full briefing on the results when your investigation is complete. We appreciate your attention to this matter, and if the VAOIG determines that legislative changes need to be made, we look forward to working together to enact the needed changes. 2015-07-20 -- VA response to Solar Panels Letter (2).pdf
04.16.2015	Today, after the House passed H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act, by a bipartisan vote of 240-179, Congressman French Hill released the following the statement... share: f t Today, after the House passed H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act, by a bipartisan vote of 240-179, Congressman French Hill released the following the statement: “Repealing the outdated and burdensome ‘Death Tax’ that chips away at the complexity of the current tax code and protects small family farms and businesses across Arkansas and America from its stressful and potentially devastating effects. Instead of being forced to purchase enormous insurance policies or sell off assets to pay the tab, families can invest in and grow their businesses, benefitting the economy as a whole. Today’s vote reaffirms House’s commitment to a pro-growth tax code that benefits the American people and not the federal government.” This week the House also passed H.R. 622, the State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act, and a series of bills to make the IRS more transparent and hold them accountable to the American people. ###
04.16.2015	U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Second District Representative French Hill, today announced that the Army has determined that two servicemembers attacked outside of a Little Rock Army recruiting center in 2009 will be awarded the Purple Heart... share: f t U.S. Senators John Boozman and Tom Cotton, along with Second District Representative French Hill, today announced that the Army has determined that two servicemembers attacked outside of a Little Rock Army recruiting center in 2009 will be awarded the Purple Heart. Private William Long of Conway was killed and Private Quinton Ezeagwula of Jacksonville was wounded when a terrorist opened fire on the recruiting center on June 1, 2009. “I am pleased that Private Long and Private Ezeagwula will receive the Purple Heart they rightfully deserve. They were targeted for the service, devotion and dedication to our country in a war where the frontlines against terrorism extend within our nation. Awarding Privates Long and Ezeagwula the Purple Heart for their service and sacrifice is simply the right thing to do,” Boozman said. “The Army’s decision to award the Purple Heart to the victims of the Little Rock Recruiting Center attack is long overdue,” said Cotton. “I am pleased these two young men will finally get the recognition they deserve. The war on terror is a global war—our enemies know no boundaries. Private William Long and Private Quinton Ezeagwula and their fellow soldiers who put their lives on the line to protect us from these enemies are all heroes—no matter the front on which they fight.” “The Army’s announcement today to award the Purple Heart to Privates Long and Ezeagwula concludes a nearly six year pursuit of justice and recognition for the families and victims of the 2009 terrorist attack at the Little Rock military recruiting station. This announcement is long overdue and finally gives these brave men the heroic level of recognition they deserve. I am truly appreciative of the efforts of our entire Congressional delegation who worked hard to make this happen; especially my predecessor in Congress and our current Lt. Gov. Tim Griffin whose tireless efforts ensured the sacrifice of these young men was fully recognized and honored ,” Hill said. The Army’s determination was the result of a provision—written by Boozman—in the FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) [Public Law 113-291] which authorizes the award of Purple Heart to servicemembers killed or wounded in an attack that specifically targets a servicemember because of their status as a member of the nation’s Armed Forces or is carried out by a foreign terrorist organization. That provision, Section 571 of the FY 2015 NDAA, clarifies that an attack carried out by an individual will be considered an attack by a foreign terrorist organization (FTO) if the individual or entity was in communication with a FTO before the attack, and if the attack was inspired or motivated by a FTO. Actions and statements by Abdulhakim Muhammad, the man who pled guilty to charges of capital murder and attempted capital murder for the shooting at a Little Rock military recruiting station, met these criteria. In a December 2014 letter, Boozman, Cotton and former Second District Representative Tim Griffin urged Secretary of the Army John McHugh to award the Purple Heart to Private Ezeagwula and the family of Private Long. Making the case that the criteria had been met, Boozman, Cotton and Griffin wrote: “Throughout his (2011) trial, Muhammad repeatedly admitted that he was a soldier in the cause of war—or jihad—against the United States and that he targeted Privates William Andrew Long and Quinton Ezeagwula because they wore the uniform of the U.S. Army. Additionally, in 2007, Muhammad traveled to Yemen where, as he admitted, he consorted with known members of Al Qaeda including discussing attacks on American military personnel.”
04.01.2015	The National Park Service announced a Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) grant award... share: f t The National Park Service announced a Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) grant award to assist in the development of restrooms and a bike repair shop at Murray Park at the base of the Big Dam Bridge. Following the announcement, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) and Little Rock Mayor Mark Stodola released the below statements: “The Big Dam Bridge is one of the most well-known bike trails in America and a great source of pride for the people of Little Rock. As the longest pedestrian and bike bridge in North America, it is important to the tourism and the economy in our area. I am pleased that the National Park Service and local partners recognized the need to come together in support of this enhancement.” – Congressman French Hill “As Arkansas’ capital city, it’s important for us to be a leader in the development of pedestrian and bike-friendly communities. This grant will allow us to implement the first phase of a robust list of improvements planned for the Big Dam Bridge area at Murray Park. Our residents and visitors will soon be able to take advantage of these new amenities when they need a ‘nature break,’ or while they enjoy the amazing views of the Arkansas River during a walk or a bike ride!” – Mayor Mark Stodola ###
04.01.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman John Paul Hammerschmidt... share: f t Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman John Paul Hammerschmidt: “For the past three decades I have known and respected John Paul Hammerschmidt, and I have long admired his dedication to the public good of our state and nation. He was first and foremost a gentleman, and he earned the affection and support of his constituents by way of his unfailing gold standard of service. I join all Arkansans in saluting him for his lifetime of service, first as an airman, and then as the dean of our congressional delegation. Martha and I extend our sympathy and prayers for comfort to his fine family.” ###
03.31.2015	The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) formally awarded $1.5 million to boost economic development in the Lower Mississippi River Delta Region. This funding is provided through the Delta Community Capital Initiative... share: f t The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) formally awarded $1.5 million to boost economic development in the Lower Mississippi River Delta Region. This funding is provided through the Delta Community Capital Initiative. “America’s economy is fueled by small businesses, and when those businesses are unable to access the capital needed to grow and expand, our states and local communities feel the effects. Our CDFIs in Arkansas serve a vital role, providing small and local businesses with loans—often microloans—tailored to meet their specific needs while strengthening their local towns,” said Congressman French Hill. Included in the $1.5 million award was $250,000 for Southern Bancorp Capital Partners (SBCP). SBCP is a Little Rock-based community development financial institution (CDFI) that aids economic development in rural areas. “We are grateful to both the Delta Regional Authority and HUD for their partnership in creating new economic opportunities in the rural Delta. Our organization, a § 501(c)(3) U.S. Treasury-certified CDFI, has been supporting Delta entrepreneurs through small business training and lending for over 25 years, which means we have seen firsthand the challenges faced by businesses needing to raise capital. The investment by the Delta Community Capital Initiative will be a great tool for empowering rural entrepreneurs and stimulating growth in the Delta,” said SBCP CEO Dominik Mjarten. HUD also announced a grant of $3,333,442 to the Searcy Housing Authority for the replacement of the sewer and plumbing lines at Searcy Apartments. “The Searcy Apartments have experienced severe infrastructure problems over the past several years, and this grant will help ensure necessary repairs are made to protect the health and safety of those who reside in the community.” said Hill. ###
03.26.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 392-37... share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 392-37. H.R. 2 would be the first major structural entitlement reform in nearly two decades. If signed into law, the bill would replace the current Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula with a payment system that is more sustainable and would end the so-called annual “doc-fix,” which has cost the American taxpayers almost $170 billion over the last 12 years. Following passage of H.R. 2, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the below statement: “By repealing and replacing the Sustainable Growth Rate, for the first time in a long time, we are fixing Medicare in a bipartisan way so that it’s finally fair to patients, physicians, and the taxpayer. I thank Leadership on both sides of the aisle for making this historic entitlement reform a reality, and I ask the Senate to swiftly move this commonsense bill so we can make Medicare sustainable for generations to come.” What the bill does: Establishes the first real, structural entitlement reform in nearly two decades—offsetting all new spending with permanent structural reforms and other Medicare spending reductions without tax increases. Stops the stream of costly short-term SGR patches—Congress has spent nearly $170 billion on 17 short-term SGR patches since 2003. Fights fraud, waste and abuse. Extends Children’s Health Insurance Program and traditional Medicare extenders, including the therapy cap exceptions process and Medicare-Dependent Hospital (MDH) Program, for two years to give Congress time to work to institute better reforms under a new President. What CBO and other experts are saying about the cost: According to CBO, “enacting the legislation would cost $0.9 billion less over the 2015–2025 period than freezing Medicare’s payment rates for physicians’ services…. Compared with the costs of freezing Medicare’s payment rates for physicians’ services, the budgetary effects of H.R. 2 could represent net savings or net costs in the second decade after enactment, but the center of the distribution of possible outcomes is small net savings.” American Action Forum President Douglas Holtz-Eakin projects “the combination the Medigap policies and the reduced premium subsidies will cut Medicare outlays by $230 billion over the second 10 years, 2026-2035.” H.R. 2 is supported by leading conservative groups and over 750 physicians groups, including: American Medical Association American Osteopathic Association American Hospital Association American Health Care Association American College of Surgeons American Academy of Family Physicians U.S. Chamber of Commerce Americans for Tax Reform American Action Forum National Taxpayers Union ###
03.25.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed H. Con. Res. 27, to establish a budget for the U.S. Government for fiscal year 2016, by a vote of 228-199... share: f t Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed H. Con. Res. 27, to establish a budget for the U.S. Government for fiscal year 2016, by a vote of 228-199: “Last month, President Obama released a tone-deaf budget that increases taxes and spending without balancing the budget and allows Social Security and Medicare to go bankrupt. “The House budget replaces the President’s proposal with one that balances, eliminates wasteful government spending, repeals Obamacare, preserves Social Security and Medicare for current beneficiaries and future generations, and commits to providing a strong national defense for America. “It would also restore the principle of federalism—the foundation of our Constitution—by empowering states, local communities, and the real drivers of opportunity and prosperity: the American people. I am proud to have voted for a budget that addresses our long-term challenges in order to strengthen America for future generations.” ###
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after H. Res. 162 passed the House, by a vote of 348-48... share: f t Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after H. Res. 162 passed the House, by a vote of 348-48: "The Ukrainian people are perpetually under the threat of attack from a neighboring regime that has shown basically zero respect for their sovereignty. The capacity for Central European nations to defend themselves is critical to maintaining stability not in just that region, but throughout the entire world. In passing this resolution today, Congress made clear our support of the Ukrainian government, and now the Administration must act to do the same and provide them with the defensive weapons system they need to defend against an aggressive and emboldened regime.” – Congressman French Hill
03.23.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after being named to the House Committee on Financial Services Terrorism Financing Task Force... share: f t Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after being named to the House Committee on Financial Services Terrorism Financing Task Force: "With the growing threat of ISIL and other terror networks, we need to do everything in our power to cripple the efforts of those seeking to harm America. Along with military and diplomatic strategies, it is essential we shut down the economic backing of ISIL and other terrorist organizations around the world. For too long, the financiers and sympathizers of terrorist groups have hidden deep in the fabric of global business, financial, and nonprofit networks. This task force will identify the ways and means to infiltrate and eliminate these dangerous groups as we continue our war against terrorism. I am pleased to serve with my colleagues in this bipartisan undertaking, and I thank the Chairman and Ranking Member for recognizing the critical financial challenges of the global war on terrorism.” – Congressman French Hill
03.19.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed S.J. Res. 8... share: f t Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed S.J. Res. 8, Providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by the National Labor Relations Board relating to representation case procedures, by a vote of 232-186. “Hardworking Americans have the right to make informed decisions during union elections and expect that employers will keep their personal information private. The National Labor Relations Board’s Ambush Election Rule is a threat to our workers in Arkansas and throughout the country, and today’s resolution will ensure protection of their rights and privacy while upholding the long-standing policy that has fairly governed union elections for decades.” – Congressman French Hill Per the House Committee on Education & the Workforce, H.J. Res. 29/S.J. Res. 8 would: Stop the NLRB from rewriting union election policies that have served workers, employers, and unions well for decades; Ensure employers can continue to communicate with their employees before they cast their ballots; Preserve the right of workers to make informed decisions about whether to join a union; and, Safeguard the privacy rights of workers and their families.
03.18.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1030, the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015.. share: f t Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1030, the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015, by a vote of 241-175 and H.R 1029, The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015, by a vote of 236-181: “For years the EPA has made unilateral regulatory decisions behind closed doors that have lasting and crippling effects on business owners and farmers throughout Arkansas and America. By increasing transparency and review of the science behind the EPA’s regulations, we can ensure a higher quality of scientific evidence and eliminate the politically driven, overly burdensome regulations of the EPA.” – Congressman French Hill
03.08.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today at the conclusion of the 2015 Congressional Pilgrimage to Alabama in honor of the 50th Anniversary of ‘Bloody Sunday’: “I was honored to be a part of the bipartisan Congressional delegation that joined President Obama and former President George W. Bush in Selma, Alabama, for the 50th anniversary of the march from Selma to Montgomery. It was memorable to stand on the notorious Edmund Pettus bridge five decades later with march leader and my colleague, Rep. John Lewis (GA-5). I admire his courage and tenacity. I hope all Americans took a moment this weekend and reflected on the lasting achievements of Rep. Lewis and his fellow Civil Rights leaders.” – Congressman French Hill
03.03.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 240, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2015 by a vote of 257-167: “Twice I have voted to fully fund the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and twice Senate Democrats blocked that appropriations bill from reaching the President’s desk. While I am pleased that the Department will be funded to protect America from many of the threats we face, I do not believe the bill we passed today does enough to stop the threat of the Executive Branch exceeding its legal authority. “Our entire system of government is predicated on the principle that no one branch should be more powerful than the others. In bypassing Congress to grant amnesty, the President has violated the Constitution and the idea that we have a separation of powers. Knowing this, I couldn’t in good conscience vote against the will of the majority of Arkansans, the Attorneys General of twenty-six states, and the Federal District Court Judge who support the Constitution and believe the President overstepped his authority. “James Madison in Federalist 51 discussed the need for each branch of government to guard against overreach by another when such an overreach occurs; he stated: ‘Ambition must be made to counteract ambition.’ Clearly, our government works best when each branch stays within their prescribed boundaries. This fight does not end today—it is too important—and the members of this body have a responsibility to stop this unlawful action.” – Congressman French Hill
03.03.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress: “With the situation in the Middle East becoming increasingly more volatile, it is essential that we listen carefully to the leader of the most stable democracy in the entire region. Our relationship with Israel always should supersede politics, as they are an important economic and strategic ally whose stability is critical to peace in the Middle East. “Today’s powerful words from the Prime Minister come as the Administration and the P5+1 countries are in ongoing negotiations with Iran. I believe that only after Iran’s entire nuclear program is verifiably dismantled should sanctions be lifted. Iran is the greatest threat to security and peace to Israel and the entire Middle East. They are involved in the conflicts in Iraq and Syria and continue to support terrorist groups, including Hamas and Hezbollah. It is imperative that the White House and Congress remain acutely aware of this as we consider our diplomatic and military strategies in the region.” – Congressman French Hill
03.02.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 280, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to recoup bonuses and awards paid to employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, by voice vote, and H.R. 294, the Long-Term Care Veterans Choice Act, by a bi-partisan vote of 405-0: “Two of the biggest issues facing the Department of Veterans Affairs are a lack of accountability and its inability to adapt to the ever-changing needs of veterans. These two bills address both by recouping the bonuses of poorly performing VA executives and expanding access to medical foster home care. These cost-saving, commonsense bills are indicative of the good work being done in Congress on behalf of America’s veterans.” - Congressman French Hill
02.27.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the passage of H.R. 33, as amended by the Senate: “The one-week stopgap measure will provide one hundred percent funding for the Department of Homeland Security. It also gives Congress the opportunity to continue its fight to override the President’s attempt to use executive power to grant amnesty in violation of the Constitution’s clause demanding a separation of powers.” – Congressman French Hill
02.27.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General released a report reviewing alleged data manipulation at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Regional Office in Little Rock: “For almost a year, the American people have witnessed a disturbing pattern of negligent behavior throughout the entire VA. Yesterday’s report confirms that the Little Rock Regional Office is not immune to the systemic and reckless conduct of some VA employees. These egregious instances of data manipulation can only occur in an environment lacking any real measures of accountability. I am committed to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Arkansas Delegation to ensure that VA leadership does right by our Nation’s heroes by utilizing every resource and authority they have to ensure this disservice to our veterans is stopped once and for all.” – Congressman French Hill ### Related: Report: Data manipulation confirmed at Little Rock VA
02.27.2015	U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR) along with Congressman French Hill (AR-02) today announced that Pulaski and Faulkner counties are the recipients of a $96,000 grant to help disaster recovery efforts from the 2014 EF4 tornado. “Citizens of Pulaski and Faulkner counties are working together to rebuild and recover from the devastating impact of this disaster. These funds are an important step in the process to continue clean-up efforts and protect residents from future flooding,” Boozman said. "I am pleased the USDA recognized that last year’s tornado was no match for the spirit and determination of Arkansans and I know these funds will be put to good use protecting communities from future disasters," Cotton said. “These funds will provide critical assistance to our Arkansas communities as they continue to rebuild and recover from last year’s tornado, which may have ravaged homes, businesses, and schools, but didn’t damage the spirit of our community. I will continue working with my colleagues to assist those who were affected by this tragic disaster,” Hill said. The funding comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Emergency Watershed Protection Program (EWP). The money will be used to remove debris from streams in order to prevent future flooding.
02.25.2015	Hill Supports Legislation to Expand, Strengthen, and Modernize College Savings for Middle Class Families Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 529, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to improve 529 plans, by a bipartisan vote of 401-20: “Many middle class families in Arkansas and across the country rely on 529 plans to save for their children’s college education. As a former community banker, I have helped many parents and grandparents set up these accounts. I have seen firsthand the success of these plans and how valuable they are to families and students. I am proud to have co-sponsored and voted for this bill that would expand, strengthen, and modernize college savings for middle class families, while pushing our country away from the President’s dangerous proposals to tax 529s and other crucial savings programs. – Congressman French Hill ###
02.24.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after President Obama vetoed S. 1, Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act: “In a move that defies logic, the President has chosen to appease his far left supporters and ignore the common welfare of our Nation, through North American energy independence, billions in private sector investment and good careers for our hard working families. The production of Keystone XL has already produced over 600 jobs in Arkansas’s Second Congressional District, and completion of the project was expected to create tens of thousands more jobs across the country, while having a minimal impact on the environment and supporting American energy. The President’s veto is indicative of a leader who is unwilling to compromise – even in situations where failure to do so is not in our long-term interests as a country. Despite the President’s unwavering stance, I remain optimistic that Congress can continue to work in a bipartisan manner to ensure that we finally build the Keystone XL pipeline.” –Rep. French Hill ### Earlier today, Congressman Hill forwarded the President a letter signed by two hundred forty-four employees of Welspun Tubular in Little Rock, urging the him to sign the bill into law. To see the letter, click here.
02.24.2015	Today, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) forwarded a letter from Welspun Tubular to the White House, signed by two hundred forty-four Welpsun employees, urging President Obama to sign Keystone XL into law. Following the forwarding of the letter, Congressman Hill released the following statement: “There are no better ambassadors of the Keystone XL pipeline than the men and women of Welspun Tubular in Little Rock, who for over two years, have dedicated their time and efforts to developing and manufacturing eight hundred miles of pipe to be used for Keystone XL. Though the President is set on vetoing this common sense jobs and energy bill, this support letter from hundreds of hardworking Arkansans is a stark reminder of the employment benefits of this essential project and the lives he could be affecting by his illogical decision.” - Rep. French Hill To see the letter, click here.
02.19.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after Wal-Mart announced it would be raising pay for 500,000 employees: “Today's announcement is evidence that when businesses are able to grow and succeed, they will have the opportunity to invest in their employees. Congress must continue to allow businesses and their employees to thrive from the ground-up, and not cripple them with top-down mandates. I am proud that an Arkansas-based company is leading on this critical issue.” –Rep. French Hill
02.17.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after a Federal District Court Judge in Texas ruled to temporarily block President Obama's executive actions on immigration: "Yesterday's ruling was a win for those who believe in the importance of the rule of law and the separation of powers. In blocking the President's unilateral decision to implement so-called ‘reform’ of our immigration system through executive action, the court confirmed something that many of us already knew: the President's eagerness to bypass Congress lacks any actual legal foundation. I urge the Senate now to take up the House-passed Homeland Security Appropriations bill that fully funds our needed homeland security priorities and reject the President’s unlawful action. Then, we can come together to properly legislate to fix our broken immigration system."
02.13.2015	Today, the House passed H.R. 636, the America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015 by a vote of 272-142. The bill would make certain small business tax provisions permanent, including section 179 small business expensing limits, making it easier for small businesses to operate, invest, and grow. Following House passage of the bill, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) said: “Today, I was proud to stand with my colleagues in extending much-needed tax relief for small businesses, which are critical to job creation. This will help small businesses on the ground in central Arkansas and across America create and expand opportunities for good paying and stable jobs.” Little Rock area businessman Alan Bubbas said of the bill, "Making 179 permanent encourages small business growth. This legislation allows small businesses to accelerate their depreciation expenses. These are expenses that small businesses could always deduct but this bill allows for an upfront deduction rather than deducting it over multiple years. This gives small businesses help with cash flow and capital for investment. This solution also helps those small businesses who need it by being capped at $500,000. This will be a major incentive for small business owners to grow their operations, and when small business grows, America grows." Yesterday, the House passed by a bi-partisan vote of 279-137 H.R. 644, the Fighting Hunger Incentive Act, to make permanent certain tax provisions encouraging charitable giving, including provisions to enhance contributions of food inventory and encourage donations of property for conservation purposes. Hill said: “Arkansans have a long history of helping their neighbors, and charitable organizations will always play a critical role facilitating this generous giving. I was proud to support legislation at the heart of which is assisting and empowering those who are struggling so they can realize their potential.”
02.12.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the President signed into law the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (Clay Hunt SAV Act): “I am proud to have voted for this critical bill that will improve access to mental health care services for veterans dealing with the invisible wounds of war. The men and women who have fought for this country are deserving of nothing short of timely access to quality care, and the President signing this important bill into law today underscores that assisting these heroes is a commitment that all Americans support. To be losing our veterans at an average of 18-22 per day as a result of suicide is unacceptable, and I will continue to work to end this horrific epidemic.” The Clay Hunt SAV Act will: Increase access to mental health care by, among other things, creating a peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning service members as well as a one-stop, interactive website of available resources. Better meet the demand for mental health care by starting a pilot program to repay the loan debt of students in psychiatry so it is easier to recruit them to work at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Boost the accountability of mental health care by requiring an annual evaluation of Department of Defense and VA suicide prevention practices and programs. Read the text of the bill here. The House passed the bill on January 12, 2015 (403-0). The Senate passed the bill on February 3, 2015 (99-0).
02.11.2015	Following the passage of S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act, Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement: “The Keystone XL pipeline has brought hundreds of jobs to Arkansas and would employ thousands more hardworking Americans if approved. Denial of this pipeline means lost jobs and increased energy costs for American families. Americans want a true, all-of-the-above energy policy that boosts our goal of North American energy independence, benefits consumers, creates jobs, protects our environment, and preserves our natural resources, and this bill accomplishes all of these goals. The President is out of excuses and should remove his veto threat and sign this critical energy and infrastructure bill into law.” Facts to Know: The Keystone XL pipeline has provided over 600 jobs at Welspun Tubular, headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas, where over 700 miles of pipeline for the project have been manufactured. If approved, the project is expected to provide thousands more jobs and contribute over $3.4 billion to our nation’s economy. The delivery of oil from Canada is expected to offset imports from less dependable foreign sources of Middle Eastern oil. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, Keystone XL would be able to transport up to 830,000 barrels of oil per day. This represents about half the amount the U.S. imports from the Middle East. Several labor unions have endorsed the project and criticized the president’s decision to reject American jobs. Watch Rep. Hill’s Floor Speech in Favor of Keystone XL
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the passage of the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 527) by a bipartisan vote of 260 – 163... share: f t Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the passage of the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 527) by a bipartisan vote of 260 – 163: “Americans are ready for Congress and the President to demonstrate their unwavering support for small businesses. For years, Washington has been heavy on rhetoric and light on action towards reducing the burdensome regulations crushing our most vital job creators, small businesses. Today’s bipartisan vote in the House is an important step towards strengthening the middle class by growing the economy from the ground-up and allowing small businesses in Arkansas and across the country to thrive. I urge the Senate to follow the House’s lead and swiftly pass this bill.” H.R. 527 would help small businesses by: Strengthening and modernizing the Regulatory Flexibility Act (1980) to give millions of Americans employed by small businesses the voice they deserve in the regulatory process. Clarifying that agencies have to consider indirect economic effects as well as direct economic effects (i.e., cost to the consumer as well as cost to the manufacturer) Eliminating the IRS’s favorite loopholes to avoid communicating with small businesses Giving small businesses earlier input on new rules through Small Business Advocacy Review panels Making agencies periodically review existing regulations and reduce where feasible. Read the bill text here.
02.04.2015	U.S. Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement on the hiring of Mike Siegel as his Communications Director: "Mike’s extensive experience, specifically his tenure on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs dealing with issues as critical as the well-being of our veterans, makes him a welcome addition to my staff. In joining our team, he gives me another vital piece towards fulfilling my ultimate goal of giving the constituents of Arkansas’s Second Congressional District a leading voice in Washington.” – U.S. Congressman French Hill, Arkansas’s 2nd Congressional District Siegel is a native of Alexandria, VA and holds a B.A. in Government and Politics from the University of Maryland – College Park. He comes to Representative Hill’s office after working the past four years for Chairman Jeff Miller (FL-1) on the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. Siegel is also a co-founder of the Run for Veterans, a veterans non-profit that aided in assisting servicemembers as they transitioned back into civilian life. ### To learn more about Rep. French Hill, please visit: Hill.House.Gov Find him on Facebook at: https://www.facebook.com/RepFrenchHill or follow him on Twitter at: @RepFrenchHill
02.03.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) spoke on the floor today in support of H.R. 596, to repeal the President’s failed health care law, which the House passed by a vote of 239 – 186. In part, Congressman Hill stated: “[This bill] provides the Congress with a clean slate to implement the real, patient-centered health care reform that this nation needs and deserves.… This is an opportunity to recognize the flaws of mandates and a top-down approach to health care, and allows us to finally consider ideas that will result in a health care system that empowers and encourages individuals to take control of and responsibility for their health care through the use of tools like health savings accounts and incentives that reward healthy behaviors.” Congressman Hill is a cosponsor of H.R. 596. WATCH: Congressman Hill Supports Obamacare Repeal About Congressman French Hill French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
02.02.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2), a member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to President Obama’s 2016 budget proposal: “President Obama’s budget proposal is more of the same failed policies that the American people rejected in November’s election. The President’s top-down approach would increase taxes, spending, and our national debt, while never balancing the federal budget and allowing Social Security and Medicare to go bankrupt. This plan will saddle future generations with an exploding national debt. Thankfully, Congress controls the power of the purse – not the President, and I am committed to implementing common sense reforms that will eliminate wasteful government spending, achieve greater accountability, promote economic success for all Americans, and empower Arkansans and Americans – not Washington.” According to the House Budget Committee, under President Obama’s budget proposal: Taxes Increase • Despite $2.1 trillion in new tax increases, President Obama’s budget never balances—ever. • Major proposed tax increases include higher levies on savings and investment, small businesses, and increases in the costs of hiring workers. • These tax hikes would stunt the economic growth needed to get Americans back to work, and come on top of $1.7 trillion in tax hikes already imposed by this Administration. Spending Increases • The President’s budget increases annually-appropriated spending for next year by $74 billion relative to current law. Over 5 years, he would increase such spending by $322 billion. • Next year alone, the President’s budget would grow total federal spending by $259 billion, or 7 percent. • Total spending will increase by 65 percent ($2.4 trillion) in 10 years under the President’s plan. Interest Costs Skyrocket • President Obama’s plan more than triples interest costs, which remain the fastest growing item in the budget. • Interest on the debt this year would be $229 billion, but would rise to $785 billion in 2025 under his plan. • At the end of President’s plan, annual interest costs would be larger than his proposed spending for national defense, Medicaid or the combined total of all non-defense agency spending. Debt Climbs • Since 2009, we’ve added $7.5 trillion to the debt and spent $21.1 trillion. • The President’s budget plan would add $8.5 trillion to the debt. • Cumulative deficits would amount to $5.7 trillion, and gross debt would climb to $26.3 trillion in 2025. About Congressman French Hill French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.29.2015	The Arkansas Congressional delegation today requested Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack extend the loan repayment date for farmers impacted by the collapse of Turner Grain until bankruptcy proceedings are completed. Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) extended loan repayment dates for farmers impacted by the collapse of Turner Grain last fall. The repayment extension is set to expire for farmers during the week of February 1, 2015. “Given that losses may be as high as $50 million, the situation has the potential to be devastating to Arkansas, where one out of every six jobs is tied to agriculture. For these reasons, we respectfully request that the Farm Service Agency (FSA) extend the CCC loan repayment date for those farmers awaiting payment from Turner Grain until bankruptcy proceedings are completed,” the lawmakers wrote. Turner Grain defaulted on its contracts to farmers last August. In October, the company filed for bankruptcy. Read the letter in its entirety here. About Congressman French Hill French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.28.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed the LNG Permitting Certainty and Transparency Act (H.R. 351) by a bipartisan vote of 277 – 133: “Today we took another step towards eliminating needless U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) delays to approving essential liquefied natural gas (LNG) export projects. Increasing U.S. LNG exports will benefit our allies by adding a new, reliable source of energy to the global market and boost Arkansas’s economy through job creation, especially in engineering, manufacturing, and construction. It is time for America to lead the world in energy production and exports. I will continue to support legislation that boosts our goal of North American energy independence and benefits consumers and our national security interests.” H.R. 351 will help expedite the approval of U.S. LNG export projects by placing a 30-day deadline on DOE to issue a final decision on applications following the conclusion of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) environmental review of the LNG facilities. Reports have shown that exporting natural gas will create over 18,000 jobs in Arkansas and contribute over $3 billion to Arkansas’s economy. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.28.2015	At yesterday’s House Financial Services Committee hearing entitled “Sustainable Housing Finance: An Update from the Federal Housing Finance Agency,” Congressman Hill questioned the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Mel Watt about FHFA’s decision to siphon hardworking Americans’ tax dollars from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to support the federal government’s housing trust fund. See full video linked below: WATCH: Congressman Hill Questions FHFA Director Mel Watt About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.27.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement after the House approved 12 bills to combat human trafficking in the United States: “As many as 300,000 children in the United States are at risk of becoming victims of human trafficking. We must do more to combat the alarming growth of this appalling criminal enterprise, and I am pleased that the House has passed these bipartisan bills to end human trafficking, protect victims, and punish the perpetrators of these heinous crimes.” On Monday, January 26, 2015, and Tuesday, January 27, 2015, the House passed 12 bills to combat human trafficking with overwhelming bipartisan support: The Human Trafficking Prioritization Act (H.R. 514) International Megan’s Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking (H.R. 515) Human Trafficking Prevention Act (H.R. 357) Enhancing Services for Runaway and Homeless Victims of Youth Trafficking Act (H.R. 468) Strengthening Child Welfare Response to Trafficking Act (H.R. 469) To Improve the Response to Victims of Child Sex Trafficking (H.R. 246) Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act (H.R. 285) Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 181) Stop Exploitation through Trafficking Act (H.R. 159) Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act (H.R. 350) Human Trafficking Detection Act (H.R. 460) Trafficking Awareness Training for Health Care Act (H.R. 398) About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.23.2015	Arkansas’s Congressional delegation today requested an extension for the public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Plains & Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project. In a letter sent to Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz, the delegation requests more time for constituents to share their views and/or concerns, noting that the comment period was announced during the holiday season. “We understand the importance of infrastructure projects, including properly-sited transmission lines, but we also believe that potentially-impacted landowners and citizens must be treated fairly and they must have every opportunity to eliminate or minimize impacts before projects are considered. In short, private property rights must be protected. Accordingly, we request that you provide at least a 60-day extension of the comment period for the Draft EIS and Section 106 process on the Plains & Eastern Clean Line Transmission Project,” the letter states. The letter was signed by both of Arkansas’s U.S. Senators, John Boozman (R-AR) and Tom Cotton (R-AR), as well as neighboring Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN). All four Arkansas Congressmen—Rick Crawford (AR-01), French Hill (AR-02), Steve Womack (AR-03) and Bruce Westerman (AR-04)—also signed the letter. Read the letter in its entirety here. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.22.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (H.R. 7) by a vote of 242 - 179: “Although Americans were repeatedly told by the President that Obamacare would not include funding for abortion coverage, it has become evident that hardworking taxpayers are subsidizing abortion under the President’s health care program. Obamacare compromises Americans’ conscience rights, and today’s bill prohibits the use of federal funding to pay for abortions and bans taxpayer funding for health care plans that include elective abortion coverage. This past weekend I attended the Arkansas March for Life in Little Rock and heard from many Arkansans about the importance of speaking out for life and protecting the unborn. I am committed to passing pro-life legislation and will continue to work on a bipartisan basis with my colleagues on this important issue.” In a September 9, 2009 address to a Joint Session of Congress, President Obama stated that “no federal dollars will be used to fund abortions, and federal conscience laws will remain in place.” A September 16, 2014 report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that over 1,000 insurance plans offered under Obamacare contained coverage for elective abortion services. Congressman Hill participated in the Arkansas March for Life in Little Rock on January 18, 2015. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.21.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed the Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act (H.R. 161) by a bipartisan vote of 253 – 169: “Arkansas’s booming natural gas production will benefit from modern energy infrastructure to transport this fuel throughout the country. This bipartisan bill requires the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to approve or deny certificates for natural gas pipelines within a year of submission of a complete application. Eliminating needless red tape while ensuring safety measures are implemented to protect our communities will allow companies to move forward with construction or onto other jobs in a timely manner. This bill will strengthen jobs and infrastructure, reduce our energy costs, and boost our energy independence. Republicans and Democrats alike support this bill; the President should get on board and support this legislation.” According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, Arkansas’s natural gas production more than doubled from 2008 to 2012, and accounted for 4.5 percent of U.S. marketed production. Further, according to America’s Natural Gas Alliance, the natural gas industry has an average annual wage of $74,555 and will provide jobs for 54,000 people in Arkansas. In his State of the Union speech, the President urged Congress to find areas in which Democrats and Republicans could agree, called for a 21st century infrastructure, and committed “to every Republican here tonight that I will not only seek out your ideas, I will seek to work with you to make this country stronger.” However, the President issued a veto threat against this bipartisan bill. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.20.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) issued the following statement in reaction to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “What the President’s speech tonight boils down to is increased taxes, increased government, and increased national debt, but this isn’t what the American people called for last November. I had hoped the President would have committed to working with Congress, but instead he put forth a go-it-alone plan that would hurt hardworking taxpayers, make it harder for individuals and small businesses in Arkansas to obtain loans, and stifle our economic growth. “Before granting any request for new military authorization by the President, Congress must confirm an actual and effective strategy that not only combats radical Islamic terrorists wishing free nations harm but also reinforces American leadership. “I am committed to working with my colleagues to support new trade agreements with Europe and Asia to help our economy and provide new trade opportunities for Arkansas. “The House has passed bipartisan measures to boost our economy and spur job creation, while the President has issued veto threats and unconstitutional executive actions. The American people are frustrated and want their government to work. It is time for us to come together and find solutions that will ensure our national security, grow our economy, and allow individuals and businesses in America to thrive.” About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.20.2015	Today Congressman French Hill (AR-2) announced that Catholic High School for Boys Student Body President Brennan Anderson will be his guest for tonight’s State of the Union: “I am delighted that Arkansas native and Catholic High School for Boys Student Body President Brennan Anderson will join me for tonight's State of the Union speech. As a leader at Catholic, my alma mater, Brennan has demonstrated his keen interest in the political process and public service. I hope that observing tonight’s speech from a front row seat will deepen his interest and allow him to inspire more young Arkansans and Americans to engage in our democracy.” Congressman Hill is a 1975 graduate of Catholic High School for Boys in Little Rock, Arkansas. Congressman Hill and Brennan will be attending the State of the Union and will be available for interviews afterwards in the National Statuary Hall in the Capitol Building. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.18.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today in recognition of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, which is observed on Monday, January 19, 2015: “Each year, Americans join in service, prayer, and remembrance to honor the important work of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and his tireless fight to ensure equality and justice for all Americans. We must strive to uphold Dr. King’s legacy and embrace his teachings of compassion, nonviolence, and democracy. Tomorrow I will be joining the Arkansas Martin Luther King, Jr. Commission at an interfaith prayer breakfast in Little Rock and then in serving our community in Benton. I hope that others across Arkansas and the country will adhere to the President’s call to service to honor this great American icon.” On January 19, 2015, Congressman Hill will be attending the Arkansas Martin Luther King, Jr. Commission’s Interfaith Prayer Breakfast from 7:30am – 8:30am at Saint Mark Baptist Church – Family Life Center, 5722 W. 12th St, Little Rock, and will then participate in the Commission’s ‘A Day of Service – A Day On, Not a Day Off’ at the Benton Events Center, 17332 Interstate 30, Benton from 10am – noon. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.14.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after being named to the House Financial Services Capital Markets and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees: “I am honored to be named to these two key subcommittees. I look forward to working for solutions that promote economic growth, protect consumer access to capital, enhance transparency and accountability of federal agencies, reduce the regulatory burden created by flawed policies like Dodd-Frank, and protect Arkansans from big-government overreach.” “Congressman Hill will provide a wealth of knowledge from his prior experience as a small businessman and banker, as well as his prior public service at the U.S. Senate Banking Committee and Treasury Department. He is a valuable addition to the Capital Markets and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittees, and I look forward to working with him to develop pragmatic solutions to create jobs and grow the economy, while holding both Washington and Wall Street accountable to the American people,” said House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX). Congressman Hill was named to the House Financial Services Committee on November 20, 2014. The House Financial Services Committee announced subcommittee assignments for the panel’s Republican members for the 114th Congress today after its organizational meeting. The Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to: securities, exchanges, and finance; capital markets activities, including business capital formation and venture capital; activities involving futures, forwards, options, and other types of derivative instruments; the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); secondary market organizations for home mortgages, including the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation; the Federal Housing Finance Agency; and Federal Home Loan Banks. The Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations has jurisdiction over issues regarding the oversight of all agencies, departments, programs, and matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee, including the development of recommendations with regard to the necessity or desirability of enacting, changing, or repealing any legislation within the jurisdiction of the Committee, and for conducting investigations within such jurisdiction; and research and analysis regarding matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee, including the impact or probable impact of tax policies affecting matters within the jurisdiction of the Committee. The House Financial Services Committee has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to the economy, the banking system, housing, insurance, and securities and exchanges. Additionally, the Committee also has jurisdiction over monetary policy, international finance, international monetary organizations, and efforts to combat terrorist financing. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.14.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act (H.R. 240) by a vote of 236 – 191: “In 2013, President Obama stated that implementing immigration ‘reform’ through executive action was ‘difficult to defend legally’ and ‘not an option.’ The President ignored his own advice, and now it is critical that Congress, as the legislative branch, assert its constitutional role in checking the President’s power. Today’s bill provides essential funding for our homeland security and repeals the President’s unlawful executive overreach on immigration policy that has worsened our illegal immigration crisis, violated the Constitution, and punished those who have come to this country legally. I urge the President to work with Congress to enact real reform to our broken immigration system by securing our borders and supporting legal immigration.” According to the House Appropriations Committee, this bill provides $39.7 billion for the Department of Homeland Security and prioritizes frontline security – including all operational, counterterrorism, and threat-targeting activities, and essential tactical equipment – and saves hardworking American taxpayer dollars by reducing overhead costs and cutting funds for lower-priority programs. Further, the bill contains amendments to repeal the President’s unlawful executive action on immigration: Reps. Aderholt / Mulvaney / Barletta Amendment: Prevents any funds to be used to carry-out the Executive actions announced on November 20, 2014 to grant deferred action to certain unlawful aliens, and four of the “Morton Memos” on prosecutorial discretion and immigration enforcement priorities issued in 2011 and 2012 that effectively prevent certain classes of unlawful aliens from being removed from the country. This amendment also declares that no funds may be used to carry-out any substantially similar policies to those defunded, that the policies defunded and any substantially similar policies have no statutory or constitutional basis and therefore no legal effect, and provides that no funds may be used to grant any Federal benefit to any alien as a result of the policies defunded. Rep. Blackburn Amendment: Provides that no funds may be used to consider new, renewal or previously denied Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) applications. Reps. DeSantis / Roby Amendment: Requires that DHS treat any alien convicted of any offense involving domestic violence, sexual abuse, child molestation, or child abuse or exploitation as within the categories of aliens subject to DHS’s highest civil immigration enforcement. Reps. Salmon / Thompson (PA) Amendment: Gives the sense of Congress that the Executive Branch should not pursue policies that disadvantage the hiring of U.S. citizens and those lawfully present in the United States by making it economically advantageous to hire workers who came to the country illegally. Rep. Schock Amendment: Gives the sense of Congress that the Administration should stop putting the interest of immigrants who worked within the legal framework to come to the US behind those who came here illegally. Almost half of U.S. states, including Arkansas, are currently suing the Administration over the President’s executive action. In December 2014, a federal judge in Pennsylvania ruled many of the President’s recent executive actions on immigration unconstitutional. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.13.2015	Congressman French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed the Regulatory Accountability Act (H.R. 185) by a bipartisan vote of 250 – 175: “This bipartisan bill will modernize our federal regulatory process by increasing transparency and reducing costs to hardworking American taxpayers. Implementing our laws in the most cost-effective way while requiring public input at each stage of the regulatory process empowers individuals and communities in Arkansas and across America. I will continue to support legislation that gives a larger voice to taxpayers and reduces the burdensome red tape of the federal government.” H.R. 185 was introduced on January 7, 2015, by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), and would modernize the nearly 70-year-old rulemaking process under the Administrative Procedure Act. According to the House Judiciary Committee, H.R. 185: Requires agencies to choose the lowest cost rulemaking alternative that meets statutory objectives (while permitting costlier rules when needed to protect public health, safety, or welfare, if the added benefits justify the added costs). Improves agency fact-finding and identification of regulatory alternatives. Requires agencies to use the best reasonably obtainable science. Provides on-the-record but streamlined administrative hearings in the highest-impact rulemakings—those that impose $1 billion or more in annual costs—so interested parties can subject critical evidence to cross-examination. Requires advance notice of proposed major rulemakings to increase public input before costly agency positions are proposed and entrenched. Strengthens judicial review of new agency regulations. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.09.2015	Representative French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after the House passed the Keystone XL Pipeline Act (H.R. 3) by a bipartisan vote of 266 – 153: “I am honored to have cosponsored this bill to complete the Keystone XL pipeline and help secure America’s energy independence. This morning, the Nebraska Supreme Court approved the pathway to the pipeline, leaving the President with no more excuses to deny completion of the Keystone XL pipeline. This project already provided jobs for more than 600 Arkansans, and completion of the pipeline would provide thousands more jobs for hardworking Americans. It has been over six years since the application to build the pipeline was first submitted, and today’s bipartisan vote marks the tenth time the House has voted to approve the completion of the pipeline. It is time for the President to approve this project to provide jobs and energy for America.” This morning the Nebraska Supreme Court overturned a ruling that struck down a proposed route for the Keystone XL pipeline, clearing the way for the pipeline’s construction. In April 2014, President Obama’s Administration indefinitely extended the time for federal agencies to review the pipeline project due to the then ongoing legal challenges. In September 2013, Dave Delie, the head of Welspun Tubular LLC, headquartered in Little Rock, Arkansas, testified to Congress that the Keystone XL project had employed more than 600 Arkansans for over a year and a half at Welspun. The U.S. State Department’s Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement found that the project would support more than 42,000 direct and indirect jobs nationwide. A recent People’s Pundit Daily poll stated that 72 percent of Americans support construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. Today’s bill authorizes the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance of the Keystone XL pipeline. The bill deems the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Secretary of State in January 2014 sufficient to satisfy all the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and any other federal law that requires federal agency consultation or review. About Congressman French Hill J. French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.06.2015	Representative French Hill (AR-2) issued the following statement after the House passed the Hire More Heroes Act (H.R. 22) by a bipartisan vote of 412 – 0: “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan bill that eases the burden of Obamacare’s harmful employer mandate while incentivizing businesses to hire more veterans and providing essential employment opportunities for our nation’s heroes.” Over eight million veterans are currently enrolled in health care through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). The Hire More Heroes Act would ensure that veterans who have health care coverage through the VA or DoD are not counted toward Obamacare’s employer mandate, which requires businesses with at least 50 full-time employees to provide them with health insurance. About Congressman French Hill French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his Congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager, and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch Service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
01.06.2015	Representative French Hill (AR-2) released the following statement today after being sworn into the 114th Congress: “I am honored to serve Arkansas’s Second Congressional District, and I am humbled by the support of the hardworking Arkansans who entrusted me with this responsibility. This past election, the American people made clear their opposition to the President’s go-it-alone approach to governing, and I am ready to work with my colleagues in the House and the new Senate majority to fight against the President’s failed policies. I pledge to work for solutions that eliminate wasteful government spending, strengthen our foreign policy and national security, achieve greater accountability, promote economic success for all Americans, repeal Obamacare and allow Arkansas’s families and businesses to thrive.” About Congressman French Hill French Hill, 58, is the 22nd Member of Congress to represent central Arkansas in the U.S. House of Representatives. A ninth generation Arkansan, he was elected on November 4, 2014, and will serve on the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services for the 114th Congress. Prior to his congressional service, Mr. Hill was actively engaged in the Arkansas business community for two decades as a commercial banker and investment manager and was founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Delta Trust & Banking Corp in Little Rock. Prior to his community banking work in Arkansas, Mr. Hill served as a senior official in the administration of President George H.W. Bush. Prior to his Executive Branch service, from 1982-84, Mr. Hill served on the staff of then-U.S. Senator John Tower (R-TX) as well as on the staff of the U.S. Senate Committee on Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. Mr. Hill is a magna cum laude graduate in Economics from Vanderbilt University. He is married to the former Martha McKenzie of Dallas, Texas, and they have a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth McKenzie Hill, and a son, William Payne Hill. The Hill family resides in Little Rock.
