10.13.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today was presented the 2016 Patient Access Award by the Alliance for Patient Access for his efforts to protect Medicare Part B. “It’s a privilege to be able to represent the seniors across Southern Nevada and work toward solutions that strengthen Medicare that so many of them rely on,” said Hardy. “It’s important that we put politics aside and work to preserve and protect Medicare for today’s seniors and in particular, Part B, so that they have the ability to see their doctor and receive appropriate care.” Part B is the part of Medicare that covers physician services and reimburses doctors for seeing patients who rely on Medicare. Protecting Medicare Part B means protecting senior’s access to doctors and critical life-saving medical therapies. This year, Congressman Hardy signed onto a bipartisan letter with 242 of his colleagues asking the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) which administers the federal Medicare program, to withdraw implementation of a rule changing the way Medicare calculates out-patient medicine for non-hospital settings like outpatient clinics and cancer centers. While intended to cut costs and make Medicare more sustainable, if implemented, the changes proposed by the Administration would mean seniors would likely be denied access to critical medicine because Medicare would simply refuse to reimburse doctors for administering this care. A real life example would be Medicare refusing to pay for chemotherapy treatments for a cancer patient at an outpatient clinic. “Each of us can agree that we need to find ways to strengthen Medicare by making it more cost-effective and delivering patient-centered care,” said Hardy. “However, I believe this is a role for the Congress and not executive branch experiments done by unaccountable bureaucrats that could negatively affect our seniors.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Hardy today released a white board video on a bill he introduced two weeks ago titled the Graduate Opportunities in Medical Education Distribution Act – or #GOMED for short. Click Here to Watch Video Every year, the federal government spends roughly $15 billion dollars to train doctors with 78 percent of this funding coming from Medicare. The problem with this funding is that it is not directed to states based upon Medicare population or even general population, but by artificial caps created in 1996. These caps locked in the distribution of resident training positions regardless of whether or not they are filled. More simply put, New York receives more funding for these opportunities than 31 other states combined while hundreds of these slots while funded go unused every year. GOMED allows unused residency slots to be reallocated to states like Nevada that need them most. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) tonight made the following statement after the House passed a continuing resolution funding government operations: “Tonight’s vote delivers badly needed funds to communities around the country struggling to fight the Zika virus. It also delivers on the promises made to Veterans by fully funding the VA. But most importantly, tonight’s vote keeps our government operating while Congress continues to work on a fiscally responsible plan to get Washington’s spending under control.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement on passage of the Regulatory Relief for Small Businesses, Schools, and Nonprofits Act (H.R. 6094) which would delay the Department of Labor’s job-killing overtime rule: “As a member of the small business committee, I’ve heard from countless witnesses who have testified in Washington and listened to small business owners across the Las Vegas Valley. The message is the same. The Department of Labor’s overtime rule has the potential to result in unintended consequences such as lost hours, lost benefits, or worse, lost jobs. This misguided federal overreach will affect not only small businesses, but also nonprofits and state and local governments. It must be stopped.” Congressman Hardy was an original co-sponsor of H.R. 6094 and recently spoke on the House Floor on the issue. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement after voting for H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act: “I never thought I’d see the day when Congress would need to pass legislation in order to prevent our government from paying ransom to the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism. But this administration had the bad idea to make a bad deal with a bad actor, sending planes filled with untraceable cash to Iran. Unfortunately, today was the day Congress had to act to prevent the administration from making any more bad decisions like shuttling millions of dollars’ worth of ransom payments to murderous regimes intent on killing Americans.” H.R. 5931 passed by a vote of 254-163. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement after voting for the Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act (H.R. 5461): “With foundations run by Iran’s top political and military leaders controlling a third of Iran’s economy, transparency about regime leaders’ assets is one way to hold the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism accountable. The online accounting of corrupt Iranian officials’ financial dealings created by this bill will serve as an important resource for the American people to ensure money isn’t being funneled to terrorist organizations that are a clear and present danger to the United States.” The Iranian Leadership Asset Transparency Act would require the Treasury Secretary to develop and post online a list estimating the “funds and assets” held by senior Iranian political and military leaders, along with a description of how they acquired the assets and how those assets are employed. H.R. 5461 passed by a vote of 282-143. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.21.2016	Today, Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) took to the House Floor to press the case on why the Department of Labor’s overtime rule could result in lost hours, lost wages, lost benefits and worse yet, lost jobs. CLICK HERE FOR VIDEO ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy introduced legislation today to address the lack of graduate medical education (GME) opportunities in Nevada. H.R. 6039, the Graduate Opportunities in Medical Distribution Act (GO MED), will implement a program to reallocate unused Medicare Graduate Medical Education Cap allotments to states feeling the worst effects of the physician shortage on a five year rolling basis. “We’re facing a doctor shortage in this country,” said Congressman Hardy. “If we’re serious about creating opportunities for more students to practice medicine and increasing access to health care, then this bill is a step in the right direction.” The federal government currently spends roughly $15 billion annually to train physicians across the United States. These funds are used for graduate medical education to train residents. Seventy-eight percent of this funding is provided through Medicare. However the top five states where these opportunities exist receive nearly half of the federal funding for graduate medical education students. The top state, New York, receives more GME funding than 31 other states combined. In 1996, Congress passed and President Clinton signed into law caps on the amount of slots offered in the GME program after slots ballooned out of control. The caps that remain in place were based on the amount of opportunities states wanted in 1996 rather than what they needed. In 2014, Medicare paid for only 137 residency slots in the State of Nevada. By comparison, the top 25 states receiving Medicare funding for these GME slots averaged over 3,000 medical education slots. GO MED would take these slots that are already funded and not utilized and transfer these GME opportunities to states like Nevada where there is a need. A similar redistribution took place in 2011 and it was found then that over 1,000 of these Medicare funded GME positions were not being used. The Reno Gazette-Journal wrote about the lack of opportunities in Nevada in 2014 and quoted a Regent who said then of medical students, “We teach them to leave.” “Seventy-seven percent of graduate medical education students who learn in Nevada stay in Nevada to practice Medicine,” said Hardy. “There are literally hundreds of opportunities paid for with hard-working Nevadan’s tax dollars that aren’t being used. I believe it’s prudent to make these commonsense reforms to this program so that the Silver State benefits from the hard work and education of aspiring students who want to practice medicine in Nevada.” The American Medical Association recently found that there could be a shortage of up to 100,000 doctors nationwide in less than ten years based upon looming retirements of the current workforce. In 2013 in Nevada, doctors aged 65 and over made up 26 percent of the practicing workforce and those aged 55-64 made up another 20. This legislation was something Congressman Hardy has been working on since meeting with health care administrators at Sunrise Hospital in Las Vegas. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON -- In the wake of the news of large insurers leaving the Affordable Care Act (ACA) exchanges, reducing coverage options, and increasing costs for individuals and families, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) along with Congressmen Mark Amodei (NV-02) and Joe Heck (NV-03) today introduced legislation to spare Nevadans from an unfair tax under that law. The Protection from Insurance Exchange Monopolies Act, would exempt all individuals who live in a county with one or no health insurers offering plans on the Obamacare exchanges from the individual mandate penalty. In Nevada, residents of 10 counties - Esmeralda, Mineral, Humboldt, Pershing, Churchill, Lincoln, White Pine, Eureka, Lander, and Elko - will have only one insurance carrier to choose from, denying them the options and affordability originally promised by the ACA. “The better way to solve rural Nevada’s access to health care is to replace Obamacare with a fairer and more patient-centered approach,” said Congressman Cresent Hardy. "But as long as Obamacare is the law, Nevadans shouldn’t be forced to pay a tax on a monopoly caused by a government mandate that forced out other competition. All Nevadans, and particularly those in our rural communities, deserve access to more health care choices and lower health care costs." "The Affordable Care Act promised Nevadans more healthcare choices and lower costs but, as expected, we now know those promises were empty" Rep. Joe Heck said. "Nevadans in 10 counties will be living under an Obamacare insurance monopoly in 2017 and it is unfair to inflict a penalty tax on residents in counties with only one carrier option. This is yet another example of the failures of the ACA and highlights the urgent need to replace the broken parts of the law with healthcare reforms that actually expand access to quality, affordable care." “President Obama promised his healthcare law would bring Americans ‘more choice’, ‘more competition’, and ‘real health care security,’” said Congressman Amodei. “Despite the President’s assurances, Obamacare has delivered nothing more than higher premiums and less choices – with millions of Americans having even fewer choices in 2017. In Nevada, Obamacare will soon be leaving residents in 10 counties with only one choice – choose what Washington says is right for them – or pay the penalty. By allowing people who reside in areas with less than two provider options to be exempt from the individual mandate, our bill provides much needed relief to those who have been left with no alternative. Congress must continue to look for real solutions that give Americans increased access to the care they deserve, and this is an example of Congress taking action.” According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, 2.3 million enrollees - or 19% of all enrollees - could have just one insurance coverage choice in 2017. Nevadans will be able to choose from one of only three insurance carriers on NV Health Link in 2017: Anthem, Health Plan of Nevada, and Prominence Health Plan (formerly St. Mary’s). The residents of 59% of Nevada counties will have just one carrier option; Anthem's HMO or PPO plans. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act: “ Our Veterans risked their lives to defend our freedom. They’ve earned every single benefit that’s been promised to them and we ought to keep those promises. While it’s a shame this bill is necessary, the infuriating stories we here of Veterans languishing on waiting lists leave us no choice but to address incompetence and malfeasance at the VA head on. Failure to deliver care wouldn’t be acceptable in any other hospital in the country and it shouldn’t be accepted at the VA.” Background on H.R. 5620, the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act: · Authorizes the Secretary to fire or demote any VA employee for performance or misconduct. · Authorizes the Secretary of the VA to reduce VA Senior Executive Service (SES) pension if they are convicted of a felony that influenced their job performance. · Gives the Secretary of the VA authority to recoup any bonus or award paid to VA employees if the Secretary deems it necessary and appropriate. · Enhances protections for whistleblowers · Reforms the appeals process by giving veterans different options to pursue their appeal. H.R. 5620 passed the House by a vote of 310-116. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON – The United States House of Representatives today voted to pass H.R. 5587, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act to help more Americans with job training by a vote of 405-5. The legislation reauthorizes and reforms the federal Perkins Loans program for career and technical education (CTE) by giving states and local educators a more active role in designing programs to prepare high school and community college students for the workforce. “A one-size fits all approach rarely works; particularly when it comes to education”said Congressman Cresent Hardy. “The better way to ensure today’s students are prepared for tomorrow’s jobs is by trusting job creators in the Las Vegas Valley and local educators like the College of Southern Nevada to be more engaged in the needs of their students than some unaccountable bureaucrat at the Department of Education in Washington, D.C. That’s exactly what this bill does.” The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act reauthorizes and reforms the framework for Perkins Loans by: · Empowering state and community leaders to be more active. o Simplifies requirements states must follow when applying for federal funds. o Eases the burden on local education providers by allowing them to fill out a simple local application that allows for partnership with local stakeholders to perform reviews every two-year so CTE programs meet local needs. o Increases flexibility by increasing the amount of federal funds states with rural areas or a significant amount of CTE students, can set aside from 10 percent to 15 percent. · Improving Alignment with In-Demand Jobs o Includes work-based learning opportunities and evaluates CTE providers on how effectively prepared students are to enter the workforce. o Encourages local employers to be involved in the development of CTE. o Allows states greater flexibility to direct federal resources to CTE programs. · Increases Transparency and Accountability o At the secondary education level, this legislation streamlines the amount of performance measures used to evaluate CTE programs. o States can set performance goals through a public input process. o Taxpayers are protected by states that will be required to include their targeted levels of performance in a public plan with results being published in an annual report. · Ensures a Limited Federal Role o Repeals the requirement that states negotiate their targeted levels of performance with the Education Secretary. o Prevents the Secretary of Education from withholding funds from states that don’t meet performance targets. o Requires a plan for research, development, dissemination and evaluation of performance plans to be carried out by an independent entity rather than the Department of Education. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 3590, the Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act: “Obamacare plans are rising by nine percent next year in the Las Vegas Valley after they just rose eight percent this year,” said Hardy. “The last thing the middle class and seniors in Nevada need is to pay more taxes for using health care plans they never wanted in the first place.” H.R. 3590 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 261-147. Background about H.R. 3590, the Halt Tax Increases on the Middle Class and Seniors Act: · The legislation provides tax relief on expensive medical bills by repealing an Obamacare tax hike and reinstating the previous allowable deduction levels. o Specifically, this bill amends the IRS code to permanently lower the threshold that individuals may generally claim as an itemized deduction from 10 percent of their Adjusted Gross Income to the original 7.5 percent before the Affordable Care Act was signed into law. o For those 65 years of age and older, this legislation prevents the same tax hike from taking effect next year. o If signed into law, the legislation would be grandfathered to be in effect for all individuals for the current tax year. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.13.2016	Hardy Holds Hearing on Obama Administration Executive Orders that are Crushing Small Business WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) chaired a joint hearing of the Investigations, Oversight and Regulations Subcommittee and the Subcommittee on Contracting and Workforce, both of the House Small Business Committee, on how the Obama Administration’s executive orders were preventing small businesses from competing for federal contracts. Click Here to Watch Rep. Hardy’s Opening Statement The following are Chairman Hardy’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Today, we are going to take a look back at all of the executive actions President Obama has taken throughout his presidency that have had a direct effect on federal contractors. More specifically, we want to examine how those actions have affected the small firms that do business with the federal government. “Throughout this Congress, our full committee, as well as several of our subcommittees–including mine and Mr. Hanna’s– have held hearings highlighting the negative outcomes of several of these actions, doing our best to defend the small business community. Regrettably, President Obama either wasn’t listening, or worse, simply ignored our appeals. “For example, last September Mr. Hanna and I held a joint hearing to discuss the negative outcomes small businesses would face should Executive Order 13,673, commonly referred to as the ‘Blacklisting Rule,’ become final. We received testimony at that hearing that it would ‘undermine the government’s long-standing policy of maximizing contracting opportunities for small businesses,’ and that it was an opportunity to ‘extort settlements out of small businesses.’ These pleas were ignored by the Department of Labor and the Blacklisting rule became final on August 24th. “The Blacklisting rule is but one of many new federal regulations that have been spawned by Presidential decree, hampering economic growth in our small business community. Aside from circumventing the Congress’ legislative authority, I am particularly concerned that these executive actions will lead to fewer small businesses participating in the federal marketplace. We need a healthy industrial base, with many small businesses working to provide the government with innovative goods and cost-effective services. When fewer small businesses compete for federal contracts, the outcome will be less innovation and higher cost for taxpayers. Regrettably, this exodus has already started. We currently have 100,000 fewer small businesses registered to do business with the federal government than we did just 4 years ago. This is not good for the United States. “In meeting after meeting with my constituents back home in Nevada, and listening to small business after small business testify here before our subcommittee, I have come to the conclusion that Washington regulators, and particularly those appointed in the Obama Administration, do not understand how much their actions affect the day to day operations of small firms. It is unfortunate and I hope to work with this Administration to make them understand just how difficult they are making it for our small federal contractors. “We have an outstanding panel with us this morning and I am very interested to hear how bad it is getting out there for our small federal contractors. If we keep yelling, maybe the President will finally hear us.” Notable Quotes from Hearing Witnesses: “The engineering industry, which suffered significantly during the recent recession, is finally coming back to fiscal health,” testified James Hoffman, the President of Summer Consultants, Inc., who spoke on behalf of the American Council of Engineering Companies. “Unfortunately, these and other regulatory actions could put that recovery at risk and create disincentives for engineering firms of all sizes to participate in the federal market.” “Several of the recent executive orders have, through flawed processes, installed burdensome, unnecessary, inefficient, and in many cases duplicative and overlapping regulatory regimes that have the cumulative effect of dramatically increasing the cost of doing businesses with the federal government,” said Donna Huneycutt, the co-owner of Wittenberg Weiner Consulting, LLC. “Over time, these will decrease efficiency and economy in federal procurement, while undermining small business growth and development, and limiting the federal government’s access to innovative products and services to fulfill their needs, in direct contradiction of ongoing initiatives.” “Given the overall state of the construction economy today, several small business contractors have expressed to AGC that they are strongly considering or plan to walk away from the federal construction market,” noted Jimmy Christianson, who testified on behalf of the Associated General Contractors of America “The result of these new requirements may, therefore, include reduced competition and, in turn, higher prices to the federal government and taxpayers.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON – The House of Representatives passed H.R. 2357, the Accelerating Access to Capital Act today, removing barriers by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required for small businesses to fill out in order to gain access to new funds that grow small businesses. Specifically, the bill will expand eligibility of the use of the Form S-3 that would allow companies to access capital funds in a more efficient and cost-effective manner. The bill also creates a limited exemption for small businesses to raise capital without unnecessary regulatory costs and remove regulatory hurdles that often times make it more difficult for small businesses to raise capital, which is consistent with the bipartisan JOBS Act. “Small businesses are the hub of innovation in our country and the cornerstone of our country’s economic growth,” said Hardy. “As I meet with small business owners all across the Fourth district, I hear great enthusiasm about what’s possible and frustration about having the funds necessary for their business to be more competitive. “The greatest innovations and economic growth are found in places like the Las Vegas Valley and not Washington. When our economy grows, so do small businesses and take home pay for the millions of employees across the country,” Hardy concluded, “This bill primes the pump for small businesses to begin creating jobs to help get our economy back on track.” The Accelerating Access to Capital Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 236-178. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.02.2016	Congressman Challenges Students to Create Next Pokémon Go North Las Vegas, Nevada – U.S. Representative Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today announced his office is accepting entries from students residing in Nevada’s Fourth Congressional District for the 2016 Congressional App Challenge sponsored by the U.S. House of Representatives and the Internet Education Foundation. The Congressional App Challenge is a nation-wide competition open to all eligible students in Nevada’s Fourth District and is designed to encourage a student’s interest in the STEM fields, while having fun learning. Similar to the Congressional Art Competition, students will be challenged during the House App Challenge to create an application for a mobile phone, tablet or a computer as a way to promote interest in math and science education. “As students and teachers across the fourth district head back to class this week, I would encourage them, as they begin studying their STEM curriculum, to consider the Congressional App Challenge as a fun way to learn about the innovative industries of our future,” said Congressman Hardy. “I hope all students take advantage of this opportunity to have a little fun while learning important skills for today’s global economy; and who knows, maybe one of them might create the next Pokémon Go.” The App Challenge submission period is open now and the deadline for submission is Wednesday, November 2, 2016. A panel of tech experts from Nevada’s Fourth District will judge the entries. The winner from Nevada’s Fourth District will be honored at an awards ceremony where they will have the opportunity to debut their app. The winner will also have their app featured on a display in the Capitol building and on the Congressional App Challenge website. For details on how to enter the app challenge, please click here or call Congressman Hardy’s North Las Vegas office at (702) 912-1634. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.03.2016	North Las Vegas, NV – U.S. Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement on reports of a $400 million cash-for-prisoners exchange with the Iranian government: “I’m absolutely furious to learn this Administration would rather lie to Congress and subsidize the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism instead of leveling with the American people and their elected representatives about its shady dealings with Iran. Giving cash under the table to our enemies in exchange for prisoners breaks with decades of declared policy and puts a bounty on the head of every American traveling overseas. “It’s not a coincidence that an unmarked cargo plane full of cash landed in Iran the same day four American prisoners were finally released and on the heels of the official implementation of the disastrous Iran nuclear deal. “The American people aren’t stupid. This administration must start telling the truth for a change about its dealings with the Iranian regime. Desperately gambling with our country’s national security to further a political narrative isn’t good foreign policy and it makes America less safe.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.01.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement on news that our gross domestic product (GDP) grew by only 1.2 percent during the second quarter of 2016: “Americans are tired of the anemic growth that has become the ‘new normal’ for our economy. Last quarter’s dismal 1.2 percent growth rate is proof of an economy that is leaving millions of Americans behind, especially in Nevada, which has the nation’s second highest unemployment rate. “I believe there is a better way to grow our economy and to create jobs. “To start, we need to prevent unelected bureaucrats from issuing thousands of job-killing regulations that send jobs overseas and make starting a small business a nightmare. Just like state governments around the country or families around their kitchen tables, we need to finally start practicing fiscal responsibility and balance the federal budget. We must replace Obamacare with a patient-centered alternative that offers more choices, lower costs and greater flexibility for both consumers and job creators. And finally, we must simplify the tax code to eliminate special interest loopholes that exist at the expense of the middle class.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.26.2016	North Las Vegas, Nevada – U.S. Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today hosted the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Natural Resources for a field hearing titled “Improving Federal Land Management and Use to Better Serve Las Vegas Valley Communities” at North Las Vegas City Hall. The following is Congressman Hardy’s opening statement as prepared for delivery: “I would like to welcome the witnesses on this distinguished panel, as well as my fellow Nevadans here in attendance for joining this conversation about one of the most important issues facing Southern Nevada: public land management. “In a state with more than 85 percent of its land under federal control, land management is a critical issue that affects every Nevadan. “It’s also an issue that people feel very strongly about, often leading to intense debates and differences of opinion. This is a good thing. On the most important issues, our policies should be the product of spirited debate and diverse community input. “That is why I am so pleased to bring today’s witnesses together in a community that is heavily impacted by federal land management decisions. To have a local agency, a county elected official, a non-profit organization, a university professor, a private sector trade association, and the federal government all at the same table is an example we should be setting for productive, cooperative land management across all sectors and levels of government. “And I believe it’s important that we’re holding this hearing in North Las Vegas, a community that may not be as familiar with how their lives are impacted by land management decisions. “Residents of our state’s rural counties, some of which are comprised of more than 97 percent federal land, are well aware of the challenges facing their communities. And I believe that folks here in urban Clark County should join that conversation and have their voices heard. “Before we hear from our witnesses, I think it is important to state something for the record, just so there is no confusion. The purpose of today’s hearing is to improve federal land management to better serve Las Vegas Valley communities. This is not a hearing about privatizing Nevada’s public lands. Yet I’m sure that some outside groups, those with an interest in stirring up controversy or playing politics, will surely attempt to misinform the people about the true mission of today’s hearing. “Let’s not let those people who are trying to divide our communities succeed. Instead, let’s have a civil conversation about how to best serve the people of Southern Nevada. “That has been our goal from the very beginning. Every one of us on this committee, and every witness on this panel, supports protecting Nevada’s public lands and preserving our natural heritage. On that principle, there is no debate. “But we also believe that there is a better way forward that will protect our public lands while also allowing the people of the Las Vegas Valley to thrive. “If we allow ourselves to have a constructive dialogue on land management, we can help the Flood Control District protect the public from a future disaster. We can help Opportunity Village empower fellow Nevadans by teaching them social and vocational skills. We can attract more businesses to Southern Nevada to diversify our economy and create new, high-paying jobs. And we can ensure that first-time homebuyers aren’t priced out of the market due to burdensome regulations. “It’s never easy recognizing where we fall short, and there will always be pushback when we upset the status quo. But just as Nevada continues to change, so too must our land management. “If we want a growing and diversified economy to support our growing and diverse population, we cannot afford stand still. “Again, to all of our witnesses, and especially to State Director John Ruhs, thank you for your willingness to testify today. I look forward to hearing your diverse perspectives on how to improve land management in Southern Nevada.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today made the following statement after the House voted to approve H.R. 5538, the FY 2017 Interior and Environment spending bill: “The spending bill passed by the House to fund the Department of the Interior strikes an appropriate balance by funding important conservation programs while also preventing federal overreach. With 85% of the land in Nevada being held by the federal government, it’s important that we hold our federal land management agencies accountable to ensure proper stewardship of our God given resources.” Background: The FY17 Interior and Environment spending bill prevents the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from implementing the controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which would serve as an unprecedented expansion of the federal government’s jurisdiction over land and water. Congressman Hardy voted against an amendment that tried to slash funding from Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), which would have stripped millions of dollars in funding for counties with large amounts of federal land, like those in Nevada. In March, Hardy signed a letter to Chairman Ken Calvert (R-CA), the author of the FY17 Interior and Environment spending bill, urging him to fully fund these payments. Hardy signed a similar bipartisan letter in 2015. The bill fully funds wildfire suppression efforts, including $70 million in additional funding for forest health programs and $30 million more for hazardous fuels management. This is a continuation of Hardy’s strong advocacy for policies that will prevent catastrophic wildfires, building off of past success in gaining passage of an amendment to the Resilient Federal Forests Act. This critical legislation would empower the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management to implement projects that will immediately reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfires on both forests and rangelands. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today introduced H.R. 5803, the Extra Credit for Working Students Act of 2016, which will provide a flexible, accelerated tax credit for working students who are currently enrolled in an associate’s degree or vocational training program on a full or part-time basis. “It’s 2016, and it’s about time working students have the choice to make financial assistance work for them,” said Congressman Hardy. “This legislation allows a flexible option for today’s working students to take charge of their own future.” The bill creates a new option under the American Opportunity Tax Credit (AOTC) designed for students attending community colleges or vocational schools . Specifically, this bill would provide students with a choice to receive a $5,000 tax credit for each of their first two years of post-secondary education, for a total of $10,000. That’s the average cost of attendance for two years of community college. This would provide much-needed financial assistance to the millions of hardworking students pursuing a two-year degree or certificate program so that they can focus on taking the classes they need to graduate instead of picking up another job just to make ends meet. “I believe that if you’re willing to roll up your sleeves and work your way through school, you deserve to keep more of your hard-earned income. This bill does just that,” Hardy concluded. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – The U.S. House of Representatives today agreed to go to conference with the U.S. Senate to advance the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY 2017, the nation’s primary defense policy bill that will restore military readiness and provide our service members with a much deserved pay raise. The Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives, for the second time in as many years, has selected Congressman Hardy (R-NV) to represent the House Natural Resources Committee on the NDAA conference committee. Hardy touted his selection as a benefit for Nevada’s military installations. "As the Representative of Nevada’s Fourth Congressional District, home to Nellis and Creech Air Force Bases and the Hawthorne Army Depot, I’m pleased to again have the opportunity to come to the table with my colleagues from the Natural Resources Committee to produce a strong bill for our men and women in uniform,” said Hardy. “I am eager to work together so that we can adequately restore our nation’s military readiness while also being good stewards of our God given resources." This marks the fourth time Hardy has been selected to serve on a conference committee during his first term in Congress. Last year, Hardy served as an NDAA Conferee. Hardy also served as a conferee for the FAST Act last year where he was able to secure authorization for I-11 expansion between Reno and Las Vegas. Hardy is currently serving as a conferee on the first comprehensive energy package being considered by the U.S. Congress in over 10 years. Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee. ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) testified this morning before the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on Environment and the Economy hearing titled “Federal, State, and Local Agreements and Economic Benefits for Spent Nuclear Fuel Disposal”. The following is Congressman Hardy’s statement as prepared for delivery: “Chairman Shimkus, Ranking Member Tonko, Members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to testify before you at today’s hearing. “I represent Nevada’s 4th Congressional District, which stretches from North Las Vegas and northern Clark County into all or part of 6 rural counties in Central Nevada. Now, there are many folks back here in Washington who might not be aware that anything exists in Nevada north of a small strip of Las Vegas Boulevard. As far as they are concerned, it’s just empty desert. “However, such thinking fails to recognize the diverse mosaic of people who represent the backbone of Nevada, including the hard-working families of North Las Vegas, the rich cultural heritage of our indigenous tribes, and the miners and ranchers who symbolize the industrious spirit of the American West. “It also ignores the incredible contributions and burdens borne by this part of Nevada to protect our national security, generation after generation. From the testing and development of our nuclear deterrent that allowed the United States to win the Cold War, to the most advanced and realistic air combat training anywhere in the world, to the dedicated Airmen and women who fly remotely piloted aircraft in the war against ISIS and al Qaeda; people in this part of Nevada are no strangers to serving our country. “They are also no pushovers, nor am I. “As their Representative, I am committed to fight so all of their voices are heard, and to ensure that they always have a seat at the table. “That brings us to the reason why I am seated at this table here today. Yucca Mountain, located roughly 100 miles northwest of Las Vegas, has been designated by an Act of Congress as the only authorized site for a permanent repository to house spent nuclear fuel and highly radioactive waste. In the nearly 30 years since that decision, billions of taxpayers’ dollars have been spent, endless litigation has played out, Administrations have stonewalled, recriminations have abounded. “Yet two fundamental problems have continued to fester. One, our nation has tens of thousands of metric tons of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel dangerously piling up at power plants across the country, with nowhere to safely put it. And, two - many Nevadans feel that they are being forced by the federal government to store dangerous material that they had no role in creating. “Both of these facts are shameful failures of the federal government, and both need to be addressed now. “I often reflect on the courage of our Founders and the many great American leaders who followed them to take on the tough issues and make difficult decisions. And on the heels of Monday’s celebration of our nation’s 240th year of independence, I am reminded of the responsibility elected officials have to the American people now more than ever. “The issue of nuclear storage is not about any one politician’s legacy. It can’t be. Because on this issue, we are talking not just about millennia, but millions of years into the future. “Geologic time doesn’t care about partisan politics and egos. “Long after we’re all forgotten, footnotes in the dusty pages of history, the decisions we make here won’t be. The decisions we make here will live on and impact the lives of countless generations. “That is why the decisions we make here in Washington, or Carson City, or Tonopah, or anywhere else for that matter, need to be based on the on the soundest of science and the best interests of Nevadans and every single American. “The beauty of science is that it is a great equalizer. Whether you’re in Nevada, Illinois, or on the surface of the moon, the laws of science are universal, regardless of politics. Yucca Mountain needs to stop being an issue that Administrations here in Washington only find useful every four years in the state of Nevada. Nevadans deserve to have honest brokers in their federal government, and they deserve to hear the unbiased, scientific results that all of their hard-earned dollars funded. “After being privileged enough to be elected to represent Nevada’s 4th District in Congress, I discovered that too many politicians are afraid to engage in a constructive dialogue on this issue. They fail to recognize that discussing Yucca Mountain doesn’t equal endorsement of the project. “Dialogue isn’t capitulation. It’s leadership. “I will never support a repository in Nevada that isn’t safe and that the people don’t want. Period. Nevadans deserve a seat at the table, and I’ve taken one of those seats. “I appreciate the Committee’s willingness to hear my testimony today, and I look forward to working with Members on both sides of the aisle to work toward a solution that is worthy of the Americans who have sent us here.” Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee. ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2017 by a vote of 282-138: “We ought to take a page from Ronald Reagan’s book and seek peace through strength. As the world becomes increasingly dangerous, we know that a strong U.S. military can deter bad actors across the globe. I believe Congress’s top priority is to make sure our troops are the best-equipped and most well trained warfighters in the world. I voted for this bill because I believe it meets those obligations and gives Nevada’s military installations resources to fulfill their missions in the war against ISIS.” The Department of Defense Appropriations Act Congress passed today does the following: · Gives our troops a well-deserved two percent pay raise · Provides funding for an additional 28,715 active troops and 25,000 reserves · Strengthens Department of Defense Health Care programs · Supports the missions of our service members at Nellis, Creech, and Hawthorne. · Prevents terrorists being detained at Guantanamo Bay from being re-located to the United States Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4thCongressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee. ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) testified today before the House Budget Committee on his proposal, H.J. Res. 79 that would require a constitutional amendment that balances the federal budget and requires the President to submit annually a budget to the Congress that is in balance. The following is an excerpt from Congressman Hardy’s prepared remarks: “I am a firm believer that robust conversation and debate will lead to a better outcome. I know I don’t need to say this to you, but a better outcome is what we need with the budget process. As the debate surrounding one of the most important functions we have continues in the Halls of Congress, I want to share a few thoughts on balancing our budget. One of the reasons I got involved in public office is because I don’t believe my kids and grandkids will have the same opportunity I had growing up. The reason is our uncontrollable and unsustainable total federal debt. We must return to smart spending. This all begins with a budget, and more specifically a balanced budget.” Click Here to Watch Video Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee. ###
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – Legislation introduced by Nevada Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) to address the skills gap in the mining sector today passed through the House Committee on Natural Resources. The Mining Schools Enhancement Act (H.R. 3734) amends the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 by directing the federal government to distribute 70 percent of funding already made available through the Applied Science Tech Transfer Program to accredited mining schools, including the University of Nevada, Reno, to enhance and support those educational programs and involve more undergraduate and graduate students in critical research. “Whether it’s minerals to power our industrial companies, metals that allow our consumer electronics and military’s advanced weaponry to function, or the materials I relied on as a contractor to build roads, bridges, and dams; there isn’t a single sector of our economy that isn’t touched by mining,” said Congressman Hardy. “My bill is a common sense approach to boost STEM education so that we can fill the skills gap in the mining workforce by increasing the number of engineers and scientists in the field of mining.” This morning, the House Natural Resources Committee marked up a series of bills that included Congressman Hardy’s legislation, as part of a mine reclamation package that passed on a bipartisan voice vote today. Congressman Hardy’s bill will now be presented to the entire House of Representatives for its full consideration. This comes after last week; when the House of Representatives passed Congressman Hardy’s Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act on a bipartisan vote of 360-7. Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) spoke this morning from the well of the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and recognized four individuals who received an award on May 4th in Las Vegas during the Nevada 2016 SBA Small Business Awards. The following is an excerpt from his speech: “Over the last 17 months, I have had the great privilege of touring numerous small businesses within my district, where I have the opportunity to speak to the employees and see firsthand what that business does as it contributes to our economy. From a small barber shop to a tortilla chip factory, it always amazes me to see the enthusiasm that exists when the small business owner works side-by-side with their employees. It is for that reason that small businesses are the backbone of our economy. “So it is my honor to recognize four outstanding individuals who received an award on May 4th in Las Vegas during the Nevada 2016 SBA Small Business Awards luncheon.” Click Here to View Full Speech Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee. ###
06.12.2016	WASHINGTON – United States Representative Cresent Hardy (NV-04) made the following statement on the terrorist attack in Orlando: “I want to lift up the victims of this horrible attack and their loved ones while giving thanks to the brave first responders who undoubtedly prevented further loss of life. “Last night’s attack is a reminder that we must remain vigilant against the clear and present danger of radical Islamic terrorism. Whatever differences we may have here in the United States, we are all Americans and we all cherish our freedoms and way of life. Together, we will come together to defeat this extremism in defense of our fellow citizens and our liberty.” # # # Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
06.07.2016	WASHINGTON – The United States House of Representatives today passed the Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act (H.R. 1815), legislation introduced by Representative Cresent Hardy (R-NV) to protect Eastern Nevada public lands, with an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 360-7. Rep. Hardy delivered the following remarks on the House floor during consideration of H.R. 1815: “The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act, which I introduced last year, makes several changes to existing federal lands laws. The bill authorizes hazardous fuels reduction projects and wildfire planning for rangeland and woodland restoration projects in Lincoln County, Nevada. These projects will help reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire and improve and protect habitat for the Greater Sage Grouse. “The bill also authorizes the implementation of a conservation plan in Nevada’s Virgin River region. In 2002, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service required the City of Mesquite to create a conservation plan to protect several species in the Lower Virgin River Basin before moving ahead with two land acquisitions. The city planned to use funds from the Mesquite Lands Act, a law passed by Congress in 1986 that allowed the city to acquire and develop lands from the federal government, to complete the plan. FWS signed a memorandum of agreement with the City of Mesquite to carry out the law. “This agreement expired in 2014 and the FWS refused to sign a new memorandum of agreement or allow the city access to necessary funding because it did not feel that current legislation enabled them to implement the conservation plan. As a result, all efforts to advance the conservation plan and expand the city are at a stand-still. This bill remedies the problem by making a technical correction to the Mesquite Lands Act of 1988 that will provide the necessary authority to the Fish & Wildlife Service to implement the conservation plan, after signing a new agreement with the City of Mesquite. “Lastly, the bill makes several boundary adjustments that collectively reduce three Wilderness Areas to improve public access to the Big Canyon Trailhead, provide land to an existing Girl Scout camp, and release a small dam owned and operated by the Yamba Tribe. “This is a well-balanced, bipartisan piece of legislation that will reduce wild land fire threat and greatly benefit local communities, wildlife and its habitat, and the future management of public lands in Nevada.” The House today also passed U.S. Representative Mark Amodei’s bill, the Nevada Native Nations Land Act (H.R. 2733) which conveys 31,229 acers of land managed by the BLM to be held in trust for the benefit of the Duckwater Shoshone Tribe. Background on the Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act: The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Dean Heller. The legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), along with U.S. Representatives Joe Heck (NV-03), Mark Amodei (NV-02), and Dina Titus (NV-01). The Lincoln County Board of Commissioners, the White Pine County Board of Commissioners, and the Mesquite City Council have endorsed their portions of this legislation. Lincoln County Section 2 amends the county’s two public lands acts (P.L. 106-298 and P.L. 108-424) to more effectively carry out their long-term conservation and land use goals. This technical correction will help prevent catastrophic wildfire, facilitate infrastructure development, improve sage grouse habitat, and expedite the development of solar energy zones. White Pine and Nye Counties Section 3 fixes errors in Congressionally established wilderness areas located in White Pine and Nye Counties. Specifically it: Releases from the Arc Dome Wilderness Area land containing a small dam that is owned and maintained by the Yamba Tribe. Releases from the High Schells Wilderness area land where a frequently used Girl Scout camp is located and adjusts the designation of a road near McCoy Creek. Releases from the Mount Moriah Wilderness Area a section that will allow access to the main road and facilities at the Big Canyon Trailhead. City of Mesquite Section 4 amends the Mesquite Lands Act of 1986 (P.L.99–548) to provide the City with greater opportunity for long-term economic development. Congressman Hardy’s bill was introduced last year in the House. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
06.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (R-NV) today made the following statement on the release of the Department of Labor’s May jobs numbers, which said only 38,000 jobs were created in the month of May – the lowest level in six years: “Today’s report is unacceptable and we must do better so that every American who wants a job has an opportunity. A good place to start is reforming our nation’s tax code, scaling back burdensome regulations that are hurting job creators, and replacing Obamacare with a patient-centered approach focused on quality that doesn’t define full-time work as 30 hours a week. “I believe there is a better way. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues on a pro-growth agenda that will make our nation of builders more competitive.” Numbers from the Department of Labor’s May jobs report include: The private sector added 25,000 jobs Government payroll grew by 13,000 jobs There were 7.4 million Americans who wanted to work but were unable to find a job Underemployment held steady at 9.7 percent The average work week was 34.4 hours Currently, 94.7 million Americans are not in the labor force. This is the smallest percentage of labor force participation since 1978. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As Congress advances the first comprehensive energy reform bill in nearly 10 years, Congressman Cresent Hardy has been appointed by Speaker of the House Paul Ryan to serve on the bipartisan committee responsible for finalizing details of the Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016. “I am honored by the immense responsibility to finish this important legislation. Affordable energy does more than keep the lights on; it powers our homes, facilitates transportation and drives our economy. In essence, good energy policies keep America’s engine running,” said Congressman Hardy. “This legislation supports a truly diverse approach to energy production that will put money back in the pockets of Americans by making it more affordable to fill up at the pump and by lowering monthly electrical bills.” “Congressman Hardy is one of our best first-term members of Congress. I have immense confidence in him and his abilities to help resolve any differences between the House and Senate versions of this vital legislation,” said Speaker Paul Ryan. “His selection to be on this committee is a testament to his commitment to working towards good bipartisan solutions. Nevadans should be relieved knowing that their interests will be so well represented as we modernize America’s energy infrastructure.” This is Congressman Hardy’s third conference committee appointment. The previous appointments were for the 2016 FY National Defense Authorization Act and the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act. Nevada Victories Included in House Passed Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016 National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act (H.R. 1937) | This text will ease mining for strategic and critical minerals, and prohibit the costly delay of mining permits. Congressman Hardy was a cosponsor of Congressman Mark Amodei’s original legislation. Congressman Hardy also helped pass it out of the House Natural Resources Committee. Resilient Forests Act (H.R. 2647) | This portion of the bill will help federal agencies prevent catastrophic wildfires by eliminating bureaucratic hurdles that too often delay proactive management activities. This section also includes language authored by Congressman Hardy that will empower federal agencies to better manage and reduce the risk of wildfire on both forests and rangelands. Sportsmen's Heritage and Recreational Enhancement Act (HR 2406) | This text enhances opportunities for recreational hunting and fishing on federal lands. Additional Highlights: The Energy Policy Modernization Act of 2016 opens international markets to previously unavailable American energy products, safeguards our electrical grid against cyber and physical threats, and provides water relief for drought stricken western states. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement welcoming Wounded Warrior Fellow and new hire, John Taing, to his North Las Vegas office: “John’s eagerness to serve the people of Nevada and background make him a great fit for our office. As a former Marine, he understands firsthand what our veterans and service members experience. I believe this will give him a special edge when working to meet the needs of our military and veteran community,” said Congressman Hardy. “I look forward to John’s addition to my team and his ability to continue helping the men and women who sacrificed so much to protect our great nation.” John Taing is Congressman Hardy’s new VA and Military Affairs Caseworker. He will assist veterans and military personnel with finding solutions to issues they may have with the VA or Department of Defense. John Taing is a part of the U.S. House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Program, which is designed to broaden veterans’ careers by creating job opportunities and exposing them to roles within the federal government. Biography John Taing was born in Lithia Springs, Georgia, on June 6, 1984 and joined the Marine Corps in January 2004. After completing recruit basic training at the Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego and the School of Infantry at Camp Pendleton, he was assigned to 1st Battalion, 7th Marines where he served as an Infantry Rifleman and completed two combat tours in Iraq in 2004 and 2006. In August 2007, John reenlisted and was reassigned to the Headquarters and Support Battalion, Marine Corps Base, Camp Pendleton, where he served as the Grounds Operation Specialist/Training NCO for Company Bravo. He was promoted to Sergeant on September 1, 2008. During his time here, John completed his Professional Military Education by attending NCO Schools: Corporals Course and the Infantry Squad Leader School. In September 2009, John transferred to 1st Battalion, 1st Marines for duty with Alpha Company where he served as the Infantry Squad Leader/Platoon Sergeant. He deployed to the Middle-East with the 13th Marine Expeditionary Unit in February 2011. John was selected with six other Marines to compete in the 3rd Annual Warrior Competition held in Amman, Jordan at the King Abdullah Special Operation Training Center, where he competed against other special forces units from around the world. In February 2012, John received an honorable discharge from the United States Marine Corps. John Taing is married to Mariel Ann, who is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker, and together they have one daughter name Malana. John received his bachelor degree in Literature and Writing from the California State University San Marcos. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.19.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Building on his close involvement with the Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which included successful acquisition reform measures for small business contractors, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement on today’s passage of the Fiscal Year 2017 NDAA: “The passage of the National Defense Authorization Act upholds Congress’s single most important constitutional responsibility, that is to ‘provide for the common defense,’” said Congressman Hardy. “The FY17 NDAA increases readiness by reversing devastating cuts to training and equipment caused by sequestration, maintains troop strength in the face of the administration’s calls for reductions, gives our troops a well-deserved pay raise and makes important reforms to improve military health care and acquisition processes.” For additional FY17 NDAA details, please visit here. Hardy Measure Included in FY17 NDAA The Small Business Easy Contract Compliance Enhancement and List (ECCEL) Act of 2016 “This is a big victory for those small businesses who win a federal contract but quickly find their hands are tied by the red tape that comes along with that contract. Considering the economic impact of nearby federal installations, like Nellis Air Force Base, and the associated value of federal contracts for which many local businesses compete, I knew we had to do something to help those Nevada entrepreneurs hoping to make a positive impact on the operations of our federal agencies,” said Congressman Hardy. “Winning a government contract is just the first battle. Onerous post-award compliance requirements are a major deterrent to many successful small business contractors, and can prevent them from competing with larger companies on a fair and equitable basis. This language will give small businesses the compliance tools they need to be successful in the months that follow an award.” Summary of the Small Business ECCEL Act: This language will require that small business advocates at the Small Business Administration, advocates within various federal agencies and dedicated mentor companies help small businesses find available resources to help them meet federal compliance requirements.
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) hoy dio la siguiente declaración hoy en respuesta a requisitos de horas extraordinarias finalizados por la Administración de Obama: "Una vez más, se nos da un ejemplo drástico de una administración federal que está completamente fuera de contacto con la realidad económica de sus políticas. La reforma de los umbrales de pago de horas extras merecen consideración, pero doblando unilateralmente el requisito de que todos los empleadores de todo el país es un cambio tan extremo que muchos empleadores no serán capaces de ajustar sus costos y mantener su mano de obra empleada. ¿De dónde cree la administración que saldrá el dinero? Los empleadores en todas las industrias en Nevada – turismo, sin ánimo de lucro, de educación superior y de pequeñas empresas – se verán obligados a reducir horas y beneficios, o mover los trabajadores de salarios a un estado por hora. Esa es una realidad económica. La Administración de Obama quiere hablar sobre el crecimiento de empleo, pero ellos continúan haciendo todo lo posible para poner obstaculos en el camino de los creadores de empleo de los Estados Unidos para mantener nuestra economía en movimiento.” El Fondo Cronología de la Regla de las Horas Extraordinarias Propuesto el 6 de julio del 2015. Finalizado el 18 de de mayo del 2016. Entra en vigor el 1 de diciembre del 2016 - un mes antes que el Presidente Obama deja el cargo. Respuesta del Congreso Como Presidente del Subcomité de Investigaciones, Supervisión y Reglamentos de la Cámara de Pequeñas Empresas, el Congresista Hardy llevó a cabo una Audiencia del Congreso sobre el problema y dirigió un grupo bipartidista de más de 100 miembros del Congreso para presentar una queja formal ante el Departamento de Trabajo destacando los efectos de este cambio de política y animándo al la administración a reconsiderar. [Texto y firmantes] Copatrocinador de la Ley de la Protección del Avanzo del Lugar de Trabajo y la Promoción de Oportunidades (H.R. 4773) - Esta ley impediría la aplicación final de la regla propuesta de las horas extraordinarias del Departamento de Estado. ¿Qué hará esta Decisión? Las leyes federales de trabajo actuales requieren pago de horas extras para los empleados que hacen $23,660 o menos al año. El Departamento de Trabajo está duplicando el límite salarial a $47,476. Esto tendría un impacto sobre más que el sector privado. Los empleadores en el sector público, sin fines de lucro, universidades y colegios podrían luchar para cumplir con el nuevo requerimiento. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement in response to the Obama administration’s finalized overtime requirements: “Once again, we are given another drastic example of a federal administration completely out of touch with the on-the-ground economic reality of its policies. Reforming overtime pay thresholds deserve consideration, but unilaterally doubling the requirement on all employers across the nation is such a steep shift that many employers will be unable to adjust their costs and keep their current workforce employed at all. Where does the administration think the money will come from? Employers in all industries in Nevada – tourism, non-profit, higher education, and small business – will be forced to reduce hours and benefits, or move salaried workers to an hourly status. That is an economic reality. The Obama administration wants to talk about job growth, but they continue to do whatever it takes to hamper the ability of America’s job creators to keep our economy moving.” Background Overtime Rule Timeline Proposed on July 6, 2015. Finalized May 18, 2016. Takes effect on December 1, 2016 – one month before President Obama leaves office. Congressional Response As Chair of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations, Congressman Hardy held a Congressional hearing on the problem and lead a bipartisan group of more than 100 Members of Congress in filing a formal complaint with the Department of Labor highlighting the harmful impacts of this policy change and encouraging the administration to reconsider. [Text & signatories] Cosponsor of the Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act (H.R. 4773) - This act would prevent the final implementation of the Department of Labor’s currently proposed overtime rule. What Will this Ruling Do? Current federal labor laws require overtime pay for employees who make $23,660 or less annually. The Department of Labor is doubling the salary threshold to $47,476. This will impact more than the private sector. Employers in the public sector, non-profits, universities and colleges could all struggle to meet the new requirement. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – El Congreso hizo esfuerzos bipartidistas esta semana para abordar el creciente problema de abuso de opiáceos en América. El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) presidió las discusiones de estas medidas después de la entrega de sus comentarios. A continuación se muestra el texto de las declaraciones del Congresista Hardy, una descripción de las medidas de facturas y figuras claves sobre la epidemia. Comentarios del Congresista Hardy "El sobredosis de drogas es la causa principal de muerte accidental en los Estados Unidos. Analgésicos recetados para el dolor representan el 40% de esas 47,000 muertes. Nadie discute que estos potentes medicamentos pueden desempeñar una función importante en el manejo del dolor, pero no podemos ignorar su capacidad para atrapar a las víctimas inocentes y no intencionados. Es por eso que estamos tomando medidas para proteger a las personas en peligro por esta epidemia. Con proyectos de ley aprobados esta semana presentado, estamos mejorando la formación y la provisión de recursos para proveedores de servicios médicos y farmacéuticos, asegurando que las agencias federales estan trabajando mejor juntos, y reduciendo cantidades excesivas de medicamentos no utilizados en los hogares de los pacientes con necesidades a corto plazo de manera que el exceso de medicamento puede estar disponible para aquellos que los necesitan – en lugar de caer en manos de los niños y los miembros de la familia. Siempre hay algo más que podemos hacer – y lo haremos en el futuro – pero podemos decir que hoy es el día en que América empeso el camino de la recuperación." EL ESTATUS DEL PROYECTO DE LEY: Una versión modificada de la "Ley Integral de Adicción y la Recuperación de 2016" del Senado se aprobó en la Cámara hoy. El proyecto de ley incluyó diversas adiciones por la Cámara. La Cámara y el Senado se abordarán las diferencias entre los proyectos de ley en las próximas semanas. El Impacto del Abuso de Analgésicos Recetados: La venta y el uso de analgésicos recetados en 2010 fue cuatro veces mas que del 1999. Más de la mitad de todas las muertes por sobredosis de opiáceos relacionados involucran medicamentos recetadas. 55% de las personas que abusaron de analgésicos recetados los obtuvieron a partir de un amigo o familiar de forma gratuita. Sólo el 17% de los abusadores tenian un perscription por un medico. Más personas murieron por sobredosis de drogas en Estados Unidos que nacieron en Nevada (2014). Muertes en Nevada relacionados con los productos opiáceos disminuyeron ligeramente de 614 a 545 (2013-2014). Sin embargo, el número de muertes relacionadas con la heroína, una alternativa más barata a los medicamentos recetados para el dolor, aumentó a más de doble entre 2009-2014. Los costos de salud asociados con el abuso de opiáceos en Nevada se estiman a $238,241,309. Fuentes: Paulozzi MD, Jones PharmD, Mack PhD, Rudd MSPH. Vital Signs: Overdoses of Prescription Opioid Pain Relievers – United State, 1999-2008. Division of Unintentional Injury Prevention, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Center for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/images/databites/15_261593-rxopioidshalf-300x300.jpg. Centers for Disease Control (CDC). 2011. “Policy Impact: Prescription Painkiller Overdoses.” Center for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality File. (2015). Number and Age-Adjusted Rates of Drug-poisoning Deaths Involving Opioid Analgesics and Heroin: United States, 2000–2014. Atlanta, GA: Center for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/health_policy/AADR_drug_poisoning_involving_OA_Heroin_US_2000- 2014.pdf. Nevada: Summary of Demographic Data and Health Statistics. http://www.ehd.org/health_state_data.php?stateno=29 http://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/data/statedeaths.html. Nevada Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Agency. http://www.drugfree.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Matrix_OpioidAbuse_040415.pdf. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congress made bipartisan efforts this week to tackle the increasing problem of opioid abuse in America. Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) presided over discussions of these measures after delivering remarks of his own. Below is the text of Congressman Hardy’s remarks, a description of bill measures, and key figures about the epidemic. Congressman Hardy’s Remarks | VIDEO “Drug overdose is now the leading cause of accidental death in America. Prescription painkillers account for 40% of those 47,000 deaths. No one debates that these powerful medications can serve an important role in pain management, but we cannot ignore their ability to entrap innocent and unintended victims. That is why we are taking steps to protect those endangered by this epidemic. With bills passed this week, we are improving training and providing resources for medical providers and pharmacists, making sure federal agencies work better together, and reducing excess amounts of unused meds in the homes of patients with short-term needs so that the excess medicine can be available for those still in need – instead of falling into the hands of children and family members. There is always more we can do – and will do in the future – but we can say that today is the day America started on the road to recovery.” BILL STATUS: An amended version the Senate’s “Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016” passed the House today, including various additions by the House. The House and Senate will address differences between the bills in the coming weeks. The Impact of Prescription Painkiller Abuse The sale and use of prescription painkillers in 2010 is four times the levels of 1999.1 More than half of all opioid related overdose deaths involve prescription medications.2 55% of those who abused prescription painkillers obtained them from a friend or relative for free. Only 17% of abusers had them prescribed by one doctor.3 More people died from drug overdoses in America than were born in Nevada (2014).4,5 Nevada deaths related to opioid products declined slightly from 614 to 545 (2013 – 2014).6 However, the number of deaths related to heroin, a cheaper alternative to prescription pain medications, increased and more than doubled between 2009 – 2014.7 Health care costs associated with opioid abuse in Nevada are estimated at $238,241,309.8 Sources: Paulozzi MD, Jones PharmD, Mack PhD, Rudd MSPH. Vital Signs: Overdoses of Prescription Opioid Pain Relievers – United State, 1999-2008. Division of Unintentional Injury Prevention, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Center for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/images/databites/15_261593-rxopioidshalf-300x300.jpg. Centers for Disease Control (CDC). 2011. “Policy Impact: Prescription Painkiller Overdoses.” Center for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, National Vital Statistics System, Mortality File. (2015). Number and Age-Adjusted Rates of Drug-poisoning Deaths Involving Opioid Analgesics and Heroin: United States, 2000–2014. Atlanta, GA: Center for Disease Control and Prevention. http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/health_policy/AADR_drug_poisoning_involving_OA_Heroin_US_2000- 2014.pdf. Nevada: Summary of Demographic Data and Health Statistics. http://www.ehd.org/health_state_data.php?stateno=29 http://www.cdc.gov/drugoverdose/data/statedeaths.html. Nevada Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Agency. http://www.drugfree.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Matrix_OpioidAbuse_040415.pdf. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Advocates for American manufacturing, including Hollywood star John Ratzenberger, testified before Congress today about the critical place that manufacturing plays in America’s economy. Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement in response their testimony and the need to prepare America’s workforce for these jobs: “Over the next ten years, two million American manufacturing jobs are at risk of going unfilled because of a skills-gap within our workforce. We need to make sure our education system provides sufficient exposure to skilled trades so that we don’t send these high-paying jobs overseas,” said Congressman Hardy. “Hands-on technical skills helped me build a company with 350 jobs in Nevada. The rising generation deserves similar opportunities.” FACTS: An average manufacturing worker in the U.S. earned $79,553 in 2014 – 20 percent higher than what an average worker earned in other industries.1 The average manufacturing business employs less than 50 people,2 and according to the latest data from the US Census Bureau, there are approximately 256,000 manufacturing firms in the US.3 For every $1 of manufacturing output in a community, there is at least another $1.40 of wealth created.4 An estimated 2.7 million jobs are likely to be needed as a result of retirements of the existing workforce, while 700,000 jobs are likely to be created due to natural business growth.5 Sources: http://www.nam.org/Statistics-And-Data/Facts-About-Manufacturing/Landing.aspx http://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2012/ted_20120426.htm http://www.nam.org/newsroom/Facts-About-Manufacturing/ Gene Sperling, Director, President’s National Economic Council, Speech Before the conference On The Renaissance of Manufacturing (Mar. 27, 2012) http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/administration-official/sperling_-_renaissance_of_american_manufacturing_-_03_27_12.pdf The Manufacturing Institute and Deloitte, The Skills Gap in U.S. Manufacturing 2015 and Beyond (2014). http://www.themanufacturinginstitute.org/~/media/827DBC76533942679A15EF7067A704CD.ashx ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.04.2016	NORTH LAS VEGAS, NV – In honor of National Small Business Week, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) will host his small business seminar “Get Funded, Get Marketing, Get Growing” this Friday. Small businesses will learn how to access capital and create strategic marketing plans at this event. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. In the United States, they employ 48% of the entire private-sector workforce and represent 99.7% of all businesses with employees,” said Congressman Hardy. “On this National Small Business Week, we recognize the tremendous contributions of our nation’s small businesses and entrepreneurs. I join all Nevadans in saying thank you to our small business owners for helping to take our state to new heights.” Get Funded, Get Marketing, Get Growing Friday | May 6, 2016 North Las Vegas City Hall 2250 N. Las Vegas Blvd. North Las Vegas, Nevada 89030 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Small business owners will have the opportunity to hear from small business experts, marketing gurus and banks on how to expand and promote their businesses. The event will feature a Funding Panel Q&A and attendees will be able to take part in various learning seminars and networking sessions. Event Schedule: 8:30 AM-9:00 AM: Registration and Networking Expo 9:00 AM-9:15 AM: Welcome and Introduction of Presenters 9:30 AM-11:15 AM: Seminar Sessions 11:15-11:30 AM: Break Overview of Types of Loans Social Media Marketing: Past, Present and Next Generation Email Marketing: What to Say and How to Say It, Design Your Email in 15 Minutes or Less How to Get Ready for Funding 11:30 AM-12:00 PM: Funding Panel Q&A 12:00 PM-12:30 PM: Networking Expo Presenters: Jennifer Baker, Performance & Engagement Consulting Mike Bindrup, Nevada Small Business Development Center David Bobbitt, SCORE Foundation Roy Brady, Small Business Administration Guy Chaffee, Chase Bank Bob Cushman, SCORE Las Vegas Darwin Hopwood, SCORE Las Vegas Leanna Jenkins, Women’s Business Center Lu Torres, United States Department of Agriculture John Walker, Talent Evolution Individuals interested in attending Get Funded, Get Marketing, Get Growing may call (702) 912-1634 or email Kent.Alexander@mail.house.gov for more information. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.03.2016	NORTH LAS VEGAS, NV – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) será el anfitrión de un taller sobre la Promoción Profesional este jueves para conectar familias en Nevada con oportunidades de trabajo y recursos que les ayudarán a prepararse para una carrera mejor. "Los políticos a menudo hablan de la economía en términos de estadísticas. No debemos olvidar que detrás de cada número es un individuo que busca mantener a su familia," dijo el Congresista Hardy. "Oportunidades como este Taller de Promoción Profesional son cruciales para levantar nuestras comunidades, ayudando a los residentes de Nevada a volver a trabajar y mejorar sus carreras." Taller de Promoción Profesional Jueves | 5 de mayo 2016 2:00 p.m.-4:00 p.m. *El Congresista Hardy está programado para hablar a las 2:15 p.m. North Las Vegas City Hall 2250 N. Las Vegas Boulevard, Cuarto 510 North Las Vegas, NV 89030 Los asistentes del taller aprenderán a fortalecer sus habilidades de entrevista, a construir un curriculum de trabajo y cómo buscar con eficiencia los trabajos disponibles. Los participantes también recibirán información sobre la formación profesional, cursos de equivalencia de escuela secundaria, clases gratuitas de inglés, clases de computación y mucho más. Las personas interesadas en asistir el Taller de Promoción Profesional del Congresista Hardy puede confirmar su asistencia llamando al (702) 912-1634 o enviando un correo electrónico a Kelly.Espinoza@mail.house.gov. Se prefiere un RSVP, pero no es necesario. Presentadores: Academy of Human Development College of Southern Nevada Las Vegas Clark-County Library District Latin Chamber of Commerce See Us Now Staffing | Nevada Hispanic Business Group The State of Nevada Vegas PBS Wynn Resorts ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
05.03.2016	NORTH LAS VEGAS, NV – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) will host a Career Advancement Workshop this Thursday to connect Nevadans with job opportunities and resources that will help prepare job seekers for a better career. “Politicians too often talk about the economy in terms of statistics alone. We should never forget that behind every number is an individual seeking to support themselves or their family,” said Congressman Hardy. “Opportunities like this Career Advancement Workshop are crucial to lifting our communities by helping Nevadans get back to work and enhance their careers.” Career Advancement Workshop Thursday | May 5, 2016 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. *Congressman Hardy is scheduled to speak at 2:15 p.m. North Las Vegas City Hall 2250 N. Las Vegas Boulevard, Room 510 North Las Vegas, NV 89030 Workshop attendees will learn how to strengthen their interviewing skills, build a strong resume and effectively search for available jobs from employers and staffing experts. Participants will also receive information on job readiness training, High School Equivalency courses, free English classes, computer literacy classes and much more. Individuals interested in attending Congressman Hardy’s Career Advancement Workshop can RSVP by calling (702) 912-1634 or emailing Kelly.Espinoza@mail.house.gov. RSVP preferred, but not necessary. Workshop Presenters: Academy of Human Development College of Southern Nevada Las Vegas Clark-County Library District Latin Chamber of Commerce See Us Now Staffing | Nevada Hispanic Business Group The State of Nevada Vegas PBS Wynn Resorts ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. | VIDEO – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen the network of rural health care facilities throughout Nevada. After the closure of Tonopah’s only hospital last August left area residents hours away from emergency medical facilities, Congressman Hardy began investigating how to prevent future closures of additional rural hospitals. “What we found was shocking. More than 30% of America’s rural hospitals are vulnerable to conditions that have caused the closure of 71 facilities since 2010. Rural communities are home to some of our most resilient people, but they are too often overlooked for that very reason. We need to act now to prevent more families from losing their lifelines in times of emergency,” said Congressman Hardy. Congressman Hardy teamed up with Democratic Congresswoman Terri Sewell from Alabama to introduce the Rural Health Enhancement and Long Term Health Act (HEALTH) of 2016. “The growing fragility of rural hospitals, combined with inaccessibility issues and grave health disparities, threatens the economic viability of the most underserved communities in our country. As more rural hospitals are being forced to shut their doors and rural health services are being cut, it is my hope Congress will pass the Rural HEALTH Act,” said Congresswoman Sewell. The Rural HEALTH Act aims to support existing rural hospitals through State Offices of Rural Health (SORH) and incentivize construction of new facilities for communities in need. It also requires the federal Department of Health and Human Services to annually report on the state of America’s rural health systems, something that hasn’t been done since 2003. This report must examine the number of hospital closures and their causes. “The proposed reauthorization of the SORH grant program will allow the Nevada SORH to continue to provide vital technical assistance and support to rural and frontier hospitals in Nevada,” wrote Doctor Evan Klass and Director Gerald Ackerman with the Nevada State Office of Rural Health. “Rural health care systems throughout the country continue to operate in a fragile state,” said Teryl Eisinger, Executive Director National Organization of State Offices of Rural Health. “By reauthorizing the State Office of Rural Health grant program, this bipartisan legislation will help provide improved access to quality health care for the 61 million Americans living in rural areas.” The Rural HEALTH Act of 2016 is supported by the Nevada Hospital Association, the Nevada State Office of Rural Health, the National Organization of State Offices of Rural Health and the American Osteopathic Association. A one-page summary of the bill can be found online here. Nevada’s Rural Hospitals: Banner Churchill Community Hospital (Fallon) Battle Mountain General Hospital Boulder City Hospital Carson Valley Medical Center (Gardnerville) Desert View Hospital (Pahrump) Grover C. Dils Medical Center (Caliente) Humboldt General Hospital (Winnemucca) Incline Village Community Hospital Mesa View Regional Hospital (Mesquite) Mount Grant General Hospital (Hawthorne) Northeastern Nevada Regional Hospital (Elko) Pershing General Hospital (Lovelock) South Lyon Medical Center (Yerington) William Bee Ririe Hospital (Ely)
04.20.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In recognition of the substantial challenges facing impoverished communities, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) called for a new approach to alleviating poverty in America today. The following are highlights from his remarks: “[N]early 15 percent of the population is living below the poverty line. For states that were hit the hardest by the 2008 economic downturn – like Nevada – the recession is not just a memory, it is still very much a reality. But there is a silver lining here from the Silver State. Unlike the national figures on poverty, Nevada has seen poverty rates drop as the unemployment rate drops. [Community-based] approaches work best because those who are closest to the situation have the best understanding of the factors on the ground. The impoverished aren’t just a statistic to a community; they are neighbors and friends, family and loved ones. The success of [these] solutions has shown that everyone involved must be fully invested.” For a full text of his remarks, visit here. For the video of the floor speech, click here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) will host his second annual Veterans Care Fair to highlight resources and services available to veterans and their families. In conjunction with the Veterans Care Fair, the Southern Nevada VA Hospital will host a town hall where Congressman Hardy will serve as a panelist to help address the needs of our nation’s veterans. “Our veterans have sacrificed so much to protect our freedom. We need to make sure they and their families are getting the help they deserve,” said Congressman Hardy. “Many veterans are still not aware of the many organizations and programs that are available to assist them. I’m hosting this event again to continue my efforts in raising awareness to resources and services for the veteran community.” Attendees will have the opportunity to visit over 30 information booths and participate in 6 discussions on issues important to veterans and their families, such as housing for veterans, managing PTSD, suicide prevention and more. They will also get to have their questions and concerns addressed by Congressman Hardy, VA leaders and representatives of the state. Veterans Care Fair and VA Town Hall Saturday, April 23rd Veterans Care Fair | 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. VA Town Hall | 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Southern Nevada VA Hospital 6900 N. Pecos Road North Las Vegas, NV 89086 Town hall panel includes: Congressman Cresent Hardy Ms. Kearns, Director, Southern Nevada VA Hospital Ms. Jackson, Director, Veterans Benefits Administration Ms. Dussault, Deputy Director, Nevada Department of Veteran Services Dr. Komanduri, COS, Southern Nevada VA Hospital Individuals interested in attending this event may contact Congressman Hardy’s district office at (702) 912-1634 or email Charles.Navarro@mail.house.gov for more information. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.15.2016	When a Nevada small business diverts resources to deal with tax compliance issues, they do not get to focus on why they are in business. VIDEO Congressman Hardy speaks on the House floor in favor of a simpler tax code. WASHINGTON, D.C. – In advance of Tax Day, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) spoke in the House of Representatives in favor of a simpler tax code. Below is the text of his remarks: There is no escaping the fact that our tax code is written in a manner that is burdensome to individuals. It is complex and unruly. But its impact on small businesses and the economy can be truly dire. With over 28 million small businesses in this country, they are the true economic drivers. Small businesses make up 99.7% of all businesses with employees in America. As tax issue changes continue to plague small businesses, we have a major problem. Instead of concentrating on servicing their customers, growing as a company or creating jobs, these small businesses are often overwhelmed by tax provision changes. This is a never-ending story. When a small business in Nevada diverts efforts and resources to deal with tax compliance issues, they do not get to focus on why they are in business. They need a tax code that is simpler, fairer and flatter. As the debate surrounding tax reform continues, we need to make sure our tax code doesn’t hurt job creation. Nevada’s job creators and all of America deserve better. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.07.2016	LAS VEGAS, NV – Leaders from Nevada's commercial drone industry and government officials gathered on Wednesday night to discuss the economic impact of the growing industry in Nevada. "This is a tremendous opportunity to diversify our economy that we cannot let pass us by because of outdated policies,” said Congressman Cresent Hardy(NV-4). "The economic impact of the drone industry in Nevada is estimated to reach up to $8 billion. That is an $8 billion opportunity for Nevada’s families – many of whom are still feeling the effects of our last recession." Information on Nevada’s UAS (“Drone”) Test Sites: Nevada is one of only six states in the nation that is approved by the FAA to host Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) test sites. This allows for advanced UAS technology testing in real-world environments that is unavailable in other states. The average annual wage for UAS industry jobs is expected to be $62,000. Numerous domestic and international companies have relocated their operations or testing to Nevada due to the FAA test sites. Nevada's first unmanned residential drone delivery took place in Hawthorne, Nevada on March 26, 2016. Congressman Hardy’s position on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee gives him oversight over FAA and UAS policies. The Drone Policy Council was hosted at the University of Nevada-Las Vegas by Congressman Cresent Hardy, whose Congressional district contains Creech Air Force Base and large portions of Nevada’s UAS test sites. The event featured demonstrations from Sunrise Mountain High School's award-winning robotics team and included panelists from the commercial drone industry, academic experts from UNLV and University of Nevada-Reno, and the FAA’s Senior Advisor for UAS Integration, Marke Gibson. Mr. Gibson concluded by saying the nation is going through "the most fundamental change in aviation in our lifetime." ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.06.2016	LAS VEGAS, NV – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) was in Lincoln County on Monday to address the closure of Little Ash Springs and meet with area high school students. Nevada families have visited the natural warm springs of Little Ash for decades, but have not had access to them after federal officials closed them more than two years ago. “Nevadans should not have to wait years to be able to enjoy our wonderful public lands because of disagreements among federal bureaucrats on how to best move forward,” said Congressman Hardy. “We must be able to work together to find a common sense solution to solve these issues in a timely manner.” The lack of visitors to Ash Springs has had a negative impact on the local economy during this time. Hardy was successful in bringing together community leaders, locally elected officials and representatives from state and federal agencies involved to open up lines of communication in an effort to find a solution that will reopen Little Ash. At Monday’s meeting, the Friends of Pahranagat Valley were able to share their plan that would allow the public to enjoy Little Ash, while also protecting the endangered species that currently inhabit this area. This plan recently received approval from the Lincoln County Planning Commission and the Lincoln County Board of Commissioners. Congressman Hardy also visited with students at Pahranagat Valley and Lincoln County High Schools to discuss the value of hard work and public service. “Spending time with the bright and talented students of our communities is one of the best parts of my service,” said Congressman Hardy. “They are the future leaders of our great state and I’m glad I could answer their questions on what I’ve been working on in their behalf.” Congressman Hardy will host a follow up meeting in Lincoln County this summer to address the progress made on the reopening of Little Ash. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.01.2016	LAS VEGAS, NV – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) will host a free U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Workshop for individuals seeking to learn how to navigate our immigration system and avoid scams against immigrant families. The workshop will be taught by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) officials and the office of the Nevada Secretary of State. “My office continues to receive phone calls from constituents who want to learn more about the process of becoming citizens of our great nation,” said Congressman Hardy. “I want to make sure we can continue to connect our immigrant community to official resources that will provide accurate and useful information to help them successfully navigate our immigration system.” WHAT: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Workshop WHEN: Tuesday, April 5 | 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: North Las Vegas City Hall - 2250 N. Las Vegas Blvd., North Las Vegas, NV 89030 | Room 521 Workshop participants will learn how to apply for citizenship, access information from the USCIS website, and have the opportunity to ask questions directly to USCIS and the Nevada Secretary of State officials. Individuals interested in attending Congressman Hardy’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Workshop can call (702) 912-1634 or email Arianni.Valencia@mail.house.gov for more information. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.01.2016	LAS VEGAS, NV – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) será el anfitrión de un taller sobre la Ciudadanía y Inmigración para las personas que buscan aprender a navegar el sistema de inmigración y evitar estafas en contra de las familias inmigrantes. El taller será enseñado por funcionarios de U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) y la oficina de la Secretaría de Estado de Nevada. "Mi oficina continúa recibiendo llamadas de constituyentes que quieren aprender más sobre el proceso de hacerse ciudadanos de nuestra gran nación," dijo el Congresista Hardy. “Quiero seguir conectando nuestra comunidad inmigrante a los recursos oficiales que proporcionarán información correcta y útil para ayudarlos a navegar a nuestro sistema de inmigración con éxito." QUÉ: Taller de Ciudadanía y Inmigración CUANDO: Martes, 5 de abril | 9:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. DONDE: North Las Vegas City Hall - 2250 N. Las Vegas Blvd., North Las Vegas, NV 89030 | Cuarto 521 Los participantes del taller aprenderán cómo aplicar para la ciudadanía, tener acceso a información de la página web de USCIS, y tener la oportunidad de hacer preguntas directamente a los funcionarios de USCIS y la oficina de la Secretaría de Estado. Las personas interesadas en asistir este taller pueden llamar al (702) 912-1634 o enviar un correo electrónico a Arianni.Valencia@mail.house.gov para más información. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – An incoming leader for Nellis Air Force Base was recognized on the floor of the House of Representatives by Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today for her history of opening new skies for women in the military and contributions to the nation. “Women like Colonel Jeannie Leavitt know a thing or two about breaking through glass ceilings,” said Congressman Hardy. “As the first female fighter pilot in the air force and soon-to-be highest ranking female officer at Nellis Air Force Base, she has inspired countless individuals who want to leave a positive mark on our nation. Nevada will be lucky to have her among our ranks.” For a full video of the speech, see here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) se reunió con los adultos mayores del Condado de Clark para discutir los problemas que ellos enfrentan, incluso la Seguridad Social y Medicare. Se llevará a cabo una reunión adicional mañana en North Las Vegas a las 5:30 p.m. Servicios de traducción estarán disponibles para personas que hablan Español. "Nuestro gobierno tiene que cumplir sus promesas sobre la Seguridad Social y Medicare,” dijo el Representante Hardy." Nuestros adultos mayores han luchado por la paz en nuestro país y en el extranjero. Ellos también criaron la siguiente generación y han contribuido a nuestra economía y a nuestra historia en maneras innumerables. Llegar a conocer sus preocupaciones en el hogar es la mejor manera de que yo pueda representarlos en Washington.” Medios de comunicación están invitados a participar en la reunión de mañana. Rep. Hardy's Reunión para Adultos Mayores 9 de marzo | 5:30-7:30 p.m. Biblioteca Aliante 2400 Deer Springs Way North Las Vegas, NV 89084 El Congresista Hardy se reunió con adultos mayores en Sun City Summerlin hoy para hablar sobre como el puede ser un mejor representante de los puntos de vista de adultos mayores en Washington. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
03.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) met with Clark County senior citizens today to discuss issues facing them, including Social Security and Medicare. He will hold an additional town hall tomorrow in North Las Vegas at 5:30 p.m. “Our government needs to keep its promises on Social Security and Medicare,” said Congressman Hardy. “Our seniors have fought for peace at home and abroad, raised the next generation and contributed to our economy and history in countless ways. Getting to know their concerns at home is the best way I can represent them in Washington.” Media are invited to attend tomorrow’s town hall. Rep. Hardy’s Senior Citizen Town Hall March 9 | 5:30 – 7:30 p.m. Aliante Library 2400 Deer Springs Way North Las Vegas , NV 89084 Congressman Hardy met with area senior citizens in Sun City Summerlin today to discuss how to better represent their views in Washington. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The drone development industry in Nevada is taking one step closer to realizing its full economic impact thanks to legislation sponsored by Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4). As one of only six states hosting an FAA approved “test site” for Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) or aerial drones, Nevada draws economic investment from drone development companies looking to test their newest technology. However, restrictions by the FAA have caused problems for these companies and prevented Nevada’s test site from living up to its full potential. “Despite being home to some of the most important technology companies in the world, the United States has been falling behind other nations in advancing drone technology because of restrictive and outdated aviation policies,” said Congressman Hardy. “My amendment will finally provide the freedom needed for Nevada’s drone test site to succeed and for those companies wishing to invest in our communities.” Current FAA policies prevent drone operators from flying their devices beyond line of sight. Industry proponents argue these restrictions prevent testing of real-world applications. Congressman Hardy’s amendment removes this restriction for operators on all FAA approved test sites. Hardy’s action amends the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act, the first long-term reauthorization of the FAA in four years. Since 2012, the FAA authorization has received more than 20 short-term extensions. The amendment passed with bipartisan, unanimous support. Background on Economic Impact of Drone/UAS Industry The FAA estimates the global UAS industry will invest $80 billion over the next 10 years. Regulatory restrictions have been cited as one reason for U.S. companies moving UAS testing operations outside of the United States to other countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. One study estimates the UAS industry could create 100,000 jobs over ten years, including manufacturing, supply lines, and software engineers. Possible commercial applications for UAS use include agricultural and land surveying, photography, real estate assessments, infrastructure inspections, commercial delivery and more. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
02.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – More than 100 members of Congress are formally criticizing the Department of Labor over a proposed rule that would impact how much overtime pay employers would be required to provide. The bipartisan complaint, led by freshman Representatives Cresent Hardy (NV-4) and Steve Knight (CA-25), argues that the new rule fails to consider the negative consequences for employees. “Drastically changing a business’s operating requirements like this will do the exact opposite of raising wages for employees of our small businesses. In many instances, it will harm workers far more than it will help them,” said Congressman Hardy, who serves as Chairman of the Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight, and Regulations. “Small businesses already operate on such tight margins; it’s amazing that any of them make a living under Washington’s heavy requirements." DOL’s proposed rule aims to increase the number of employees required to receive overtime pay. Under current labor laws, businesses are required to provide overtime pay to employees who make $23,660 or less each year. The new rule would raise the salary threshold to require overtime pay for all employees making less than $50,440 annually. Proposed in 2015, the rule is expected to be finalized by summer 2016. “The numbers just don’t add up. If this rule becomes final, many employers may be forced to choose between cutting their staff’s hours and benefits, or staying in business at all,” said Congressman Hardy. “This policy is another example of Washington bureaucrats burdening our small businesses with one-size-fits-all regulations that hurt more workers than they help,” said Congressman Steve Knight. The Retail Association of Nevada, the National Retail Federation, and 12 additional national employer associations endorse the concerns expressed in the formal complaint. Click here to read the full text of the formal complaint to be sent to the Department of Labor on Tuesday, February 9, 2016. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy’s bipartisan legislation impacting eastern Nevada lands has taken the next step into becoming law. “This act is something both Democrats and Republicans can support for the way it will help the federal government be a more effective partner in managing public lands with Eastern Nevada communities,” said Congressman Hardy. “The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act will benefit the economic and environmental health of Nevada by diversifying local economies, mitigating risks associated with catastrophic wildfire, and improving critical habitats for wildlife.” For Congressman Hardy’s full remarks in committee, see here: Text | Video Key Components of H.R. 1815 The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act will: Position the BLM to more fully implement the Ely District Resource Management Plan; Fix errors in Wilderness Areas in White Pine and Nye Counties; Allow the City of Mesquite to finish and implement a conservation plan to preserve critical wildlife habitat and fish species; Enable implementation of a land reconfiguration in the Coyote Springs Valley that will protect critical habitat and allow for needed economic development. Background “An unfortunate reality for many rural communities in Nevada is that vital planning decisions that would normally be made at the local and county levels must be regularly put on hold until federal land management agencies have had their say. “This inefficient and overly bureaucratic process can leave future economic growth and environmental protection hanging in the balance, threatening the well-being of the rural West. This lands bill is a commonsense, bipartisan solution to a litany of problems that have plagued rural Eastern Nevada for years,” said Congressman Hardy. Supported by Nevada’s delegations to the House and Senate Companion measure introduced in Senate by Senator Heller Supported by regional business leaders, Clark County Commissioner Marilyn Kirkpatrick , the Board of Lincoln County Commissioners, the Board of White Pine County Commissioners, and the City of Mesquite ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
01.29.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement regarding the ground-breaking for a long-awaited VA Clinic in Pahrump: “No one deserves more than those who have fought to preserve our liberty and way of life,” said Congressman Hardy. “The large number of veterans in this community deserve the quality of care they have been promised without the extra cost and hassle of travelling so far to receive it. Everyone involved in making this dream a reality should be congratulated.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
01.28.2016	NORTH LAS VEGAS – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) hoy dio la siguiente declaración para dar la bienvenida a participantes a la Competencia de Arte del Congreso del 2016: "He tenido la oportunidad de reunirme con cientos de estudiantes de secundaria talentosos en el cuarto distrito de Nevada y yo los invito a mostrar sus habilidades artísticas en la Competencia de Arte del Congreso de este año,” dijo el Congresista Hardy. La Competencia de Arte del Congreso es un concurso de artes nacional abierto a todos los estudiantes de secundaria en Nevada. El arte que gane en cada Distrito del Congreso será mostrado en el Capitolio de los Estados Unidos por un año. Cada participante del Cuarto Distrito de Nevada será reconocido en una recepción celebrada el Lunes, 02 de mayo 2016 en el Smith Center en Las Vegas. Para obtener más información sobre cómo participar en el concurso de arte, por favor haga clic aquí o llame a la oficina del Congresista Hardy al (702) 912-1634. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
01.28.2016	NORTH LAS VEGAS – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement welcoming entrants to the 2016 Congressional Art Competition: “I’ve had the opportunity to meet with hundreds of talented high school students in Nevada’s 4th District and I welcome all of them to put their artistic skills to the test by entering this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Congressman Hardy. The Congressional Art Competition is a nation-wide high school arts competition open to all high school students in Nevada. Winning artwork from each Congressional District will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Each participating student from Nevada’s Fourth District will be recognized at a reception held on Monday, May 2, 2016 at The Smith Center in Las Vegas. For details on how to enter the art competition, please click here or call Congressman Hardy’s North Las Vegas office at (702) 912-1634. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
01.07.2016	VIDEO: Hardy Questions SBA Administrator WASHINGTON, D.C. – A series of investigations have revealed that the government organization charged with providing support to small businesses is failing in many of its own day-to-day business operations. In congressional hearings held this week, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) explored the problems these failings cause and various potential solutions. “The Small Business Administration plays a crucial role in helping our country’s small businesses create jobs and stimulate the economy,” said Congressman Hardy. “But how can an organization that is authorized to support and counsel small businesses be so ineffective in its own operations? The SBA is putting the American taxpayer at risk of losing our investments and can do more to support America’s most important employers.” In two separate investigations performed by the Government Accountability Office and the House Small Business Committee, the SBA was found to be deficient in critical areas, including strategic planning, IT security, risk management and program evaluation. In one of the most telling deficiencies yet discovered, the SBA has indicated that only one-third of its standard operating procedures for agency programs are fully up to date. Some of the remaining two-thirds of these guiding rules haven’t been updated in decades. “An agency that claims to ‘aid, counsel, assist, and protect small businesses’ should be operating and functioning as swiftly and nimbly as those robust and entrepreneurial small businesses it intends to help. If it does not, how can the businesses which rely on it expect any stable level of support?” said Congressman Hardy. The House Small Business Committee has set a June 30 deadline for SBA to begin addressing many of the outstanding issues uncovered by these investigations. Congressman Hardy’s Efforts to Support Small Businesses One of the specific areas SBA has fallen behind its private sector counterparts is in providing access to tools for success to the businesses it supports. While SBA continues working through its problems, Congressman Hardy has introduced a bill to help small businesses. “Providing credit is just one of the missions of the SBA. There is so much more the American taxpayer should be able to expect from this institution,” said Congressman Hardy. “SBA owes it to their clients and the taxpayer to invest more than just dollars into America’s future business leaders.” When a small business wins a federal contract, it comes with a complicated compliance burden. Congressman Hardy’s bill would require small business advocates at SBA and in other agencies to provide small businesses with a list of resources available to help them comply with the stipulations of their contract. Until now, private sector solutions have existed but many small businesses are either overwhelmed or cannot find access to these aides. This bipartisan supported bill is expected to be passed out of committee later this month. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following today’s vote on repealing portions of President Obama’s signature health care law, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement: “After today’s vote, President Obama has a choice: Will he insist on building a legacy of division, or will he face the reality of his failed policies and give Americans back their freedom in health care decisions?” said Congressman Hardy. “It is irresponsible to continue ignoring the problems the president’s health care law inflicts on American households. Years after its implementation, the verdict is in. Rising insurance costs, fewer options and losing doctors that people were promised they could keep are not the changes any American wanted to believe in.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement: “This is more of the same from a president who insists on pushing through his agenda by ignoring appropriate procedure. I will continue to investigate the legitimacy of the President’s actions but if the White House has specific proposals it believes are worth considering, it should go through the proper channels and work with Congress,” said Congressman Hardy. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement on the passage of the Omnibus spending package: “This bill pretends like we can continue to spend without consequence. While there are some good policy adjustments in this package, Congress has passed a sweeping 2,000 page, Frankenstein bill that impacts everything from the IRS to the FDA – in a single vote,” said Hardy. “We owe it to the people of America to research these issues in more depth and stop borrowing from the future without asking questions.” On Lowering Defense Funding Levels “This $1.15 trillion package surpasses planned House spending levels in every category except defense,” said Hardy. “At a time when the world is thrown into violent commotion on a near regular basis, lowering spending levels that support our common defense reveals just how out of touch Washington really is.” It’s Time to Require a Balanced Budget “Not only are we adding to our existing federal debt, but we are also breaking our own annual budget levels the House set earlier this year,” Hardy said. “A total of 45 states – including Nevada – already have a balanced budget requirement on the books. Every business and every family balances their budget. It is time to require the federal government to live on a balanced budget – just like our state and the families of Nevada.” Congressman Hardy drives for requiring a balanced budget. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
12.16.2015	Amid Spending Debate, Hardy Introduces Measure to Control Federal Spending WASHINGTON, D.C. – In anticipation of the looming government funding deadline, Congress proposed a $1.1 trillion dollar spending package. In response, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) introduced a constitutional measure to control future federal spending and released the following statement: “When I came to Congress, I promised to do what was necessary to rein in government spending and preserve our nation for our children and generations to come,” said Hardy. “This spending package may include some useful policy changes, but it continues to borrow from the future and adds to the already massive federal debt. Congress continues to ignore the reality that our debt will eventually catch up to us.” What is Our Debt Worth? $18.7 Trillion[1] $58,000 for every man, woman, and child in America[2] 10 years in combined spending in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security[3] 74% of economic activity in the United States (Gross Domestic Product) [4] In 25 years, our federal debt is estimated to exceed 100% of GDP without significant policy changes [5] Washington Should Learn From Nevada “Every business and every family balances their budget. Additionally, a total 45 states – including Nevada – already have a balanced budget requirement on the books. Comparatively, Washington has run a deficit for all but 5 of the last 50 years. It’s time for Washington to get our house in order and follow the states’ example on spending,” said Hardy. Congressman Hardy’s Balanced Budget Amendment [TEXT] Prevents: Congress from spending more than it takes in Raising the debt ceiling Unless: Three-fifths of Congress agrees -or- During any period which the United States is engaged in a military conflict that causes an imminent and serious military threat to national security Limiting Spending: Congress will be unable to authorize new spending without a balanced budget. Limiting Executive Orders: If the president does not propose a balanced budget, that president will lose the authority to issue executive orders during the same year. Sources: U.S. Department of the Treasury Dividing current federal debt by current U.S. population, provided by U.S. Census Dividing current federal debt by 2014 spending levels, provided by House Budget Committee The White House Congressional Budget Office ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement on the passage of the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015: “What was started as a well-intended way to ease travel between participating countries has become a potential weakness that our enemies could manipulate as part of their plans to harm our nation. The commonsense reforms in this bill allow us to take a step back and adjust an important part of our overall approach to national security. The casinos and business managers I have spoken with all agree that providing safety for all of our visitors is worth extra precautions. We risk far more if we do nothing,” said Congressman Hardy. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement in response to passage of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act): “Today’s passage of the FAST Act brings us one step closer to experiencing a more accessible transportation system in Nevada. The future I-11 will do more than get us where we want to go; it will help drive our economy to where it needs to be,” Hardy said. “In the past ten years, there have been more than 35 short-term spending fixes. When government fails to provide a long-term roadmap to success, it is our local communities that pay the price. Nevadans can look forward to smoother roads ahead in more ways than one.” “The Nevada Department of Transportation extends its appreciation to our Congressional delegation and specifically to Congressman Cresent Hardy for his diligent efforts on the conference committee for the FAST Act,” said Nevada Department of Transportation Director, Rudy Malfabon. “The assurance of long-term federal transportation funding will enable NDOT and its transportation partners to improve safety, mobility and enhance economic development for years to come.” Expanding I-11 is estimated to contribute $24 billion in economic impact, create 240,000 jobs, and provide up to $39 billion in travel benefits. Hardy serves as Vice-Chair of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee and was the only member of Nevada’s Congressional delegation to negotiate the final details between the House and Senate versions of the bill. Hardy’s work as a conference committee member helped maintain numerous other provisions in the bill that are helpful to Nevadans, including funding for bus facility improvements and removing barriers for municipalities to utilize tax exempt bonds with water infrastructure projects. “I want to thank Senator Dean Heller for introducing I-11 in the Senate and for countless advocates who have envisioned this over the years,” Hardy said. “Without their contributions, we would not be where we are today.” The proposed route for extending I-11as portrayed by a Nevada Department of Transportation Study. “This is huge for us. We are growing increasingly aware that we need to diversify our economy in Southern Nevada. I-11 is the future for us to be able to do that in terms of more effectively moving both goods and people,” said Tina Quigley, General Manager for the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada. “If you look at a map of the U.S. highway system, the convergence of major highways is where you have some of the most thriving cities. This is just one more example of how Congressman Hardy has been a champion for Southern Nevada.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement: “My heart breaks for the Syrian people, but we cannot let compassion expose us to the ill will of ill men. In light of last week’s events in Paris, our first priority needs to be the safety of the American people. There are those who would take advantage of America’s generosity if we let them. “ISIS has openly bragged about their plans to use the refugee relocation process to gain unprecedented access to Western nations. Intelligence reports show at least one of the attackers in Paris used a stolen Syrian passport to travel freely throughout the region. Why should we think the United States would be treated differently by those who seek to harm us? “Today's vote will put extra precautions in place so that we can continue to accept Syrian refugees and feel more confident about our own children’s safety in doing so. We should continue to look for ways to protect and support those affected by the fighting in Syria. But we cannot do that at the peril of our own national security.” For Congressman Hardy’s earlier reaction to the tragedy in France, visit here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
11.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy held a federal hearing in North Las Vegas Friday exploring how new regulations are impacting area businesses. “Regulations have gotten out of control,” said Hardy, who serves as Chairman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations. “Last year alone saw federal regulators issue 2,400 new rules, many of which negatively impact our business community with burdensome compliance costs.” For 2015, federal regulators have already issued 67,260 pages of new regulations with an estimated cost of $88.5 billion. These new rules apply to a wide range of issues, including environmental protection, health care, workplace safety and financial lending. Some of them cause significant costs to employers. “Even simple changes in regulation cost credit unions thousands of dollars and many [employee] hours,” said one of the hearing’s witnesses, Robin Simmers, CEO of Pahranagat Valley Federal Credit Union. “That’s time and resources that could be more appropriately spent on serving the needs of credit union members.” Other witnesses expressed concerns around complying with new regulations, some of which are only discovered after a business receives a fine for unknowingly breaking the new rule. David Jennings, whose Southern Nevada Homebuilders Association includes nearly 1,000 companies, has seen multiple builders lose “tens of thousands of dollars” for breaking regulations they didn’t know applied to their situation. Jennings explained, “As currently enforced, the regulations often ignore the very purposes for which the land was originally sold.” That extra cost is often passed on to the final customer or prevents hiring additional employees in many industries. According to Simmers, the number of credit unions today is half of what it was 20 years ago, largely due to costs associated with new regulations. “[We] understand the need for local and federal regulations, ” Jennings said. However, “these regulations must be sensible and tied to legitimate public interests…not regulation simply for the sake of regulation.” “Today’s hearing has only reaffirmed my belief that one size fits all regulations do not work,” said Hardy. “That’s why I am cosponsoring legislation that demands congressional review, involves regional stakeholders, and considers less costly alternatives.” Each witness pointed out certain regulations impacting their industry and suggested alternative options. Other witnesses included Spencer Hafen of Nevada Bank and Trust and Mindis Cooper of the Nevada Rural Electric Association. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement after the House passage of a six-year highway bill: “Nevadans can finally look forward to a more reasonable travel experience between Las Vegas and Northern Nevada. The extension of I-11 will advance business opportunities to strengthen our economy and promote job growth that Nevadans need. As a conference committee member charged with addressing any differences between the House and Senate versions of this bill, I will fight to make sure critical components important to Nevadans make it to the president’s desk for his signature. “Meaningful transportation planning cannot be done over the course of a few weeks, months, or even a single year. We need the kind of long-term planning this bill represents. As a former general contractor who has built roads and bridges, I understand how uncertainty can derail the ability to plan and design effective projects. America’s highway system can’t operate on short-term fixes or stopgap bills. This bill overcomes the uncertainty state governments have been experiencing without it,” said Congressman Hardy. Congressman Hardy serves as Vice Chair of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee within the larger House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. Read Hardy’s detailed remarks on introduction of this bill here. Proposed route for I-11. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement regarding the introduction of H.R. 1815, the Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act: “An unfortunate reality for many rural communities in Nevada is that vital planning decisions that would normally be made at the local and county levels must be regularly put on hold until federal land management agencies have had their say. “This inefficient and overly bureaucratic process can leave future economic growth and environmental protection hanging in the balance, threatening the wellbeing of the rural West. This lands bill is a commonsense, bipartisan solution to a litany of problems that have plagued rural Eastern Nevada for years. “This act will allow the Federal government to be a more effective partner with rural communities in Eastern Nevada,” said Congressman Hardy. Key Components of H.R. 1815 H.R. 1815 is supported by all members of the Nevada Congressional delegation. The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act will: Position the BLM to more fully implement the Ely District Resource Management Plan while expanding and diversifying the Lincoln County economy; Fix errors in Wilderness Areas in White Pine and Nye Counties; Allow the City of Mesquite to finish and implement a conservation plan to preserve critical wildlife habitat and fish species. The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act is supported by regional business leaders, the Board of Lincoln County Commissioners, the Board of White Pine County Commissioners, Clark County Commissioner Marilyn Kirkpatrick and the City of Mesquite. (Follow links for letters of support.) Click here to see a video of Congressman Hardy’s committee remarks on H.R. 1815. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.28.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement on today’s budget deal vote: “We have been kicking the can down the road on America’s debt for far too long. Our nation’s financial security is nearing a breaking point that we ignore at the endangerment of our future. Today’s so-called “Bipartisan Budget Act” breaks current spending caps by $80 billion and does nothing to rein in long-term spending. Washington needs to take a long look in the mirror and make some difficult decisions based in reality. “Supporters of this deal may attempt to say it helps save our most important social programs. The reality is that our federal debt is equal to ten years of our current combined spending in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, or 30 years of our current spending on defense. If we want to save our most important programs, simply borrowing more money will only delay and increase the problem for those who come after us. “I will continue to fight for responsible spending that strengthens the economy, respects our social safety programs, and preserves America’s way of life for generations to come.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s veto of the National Defense Authorization Act: The president can disagree with how we funded the military, but there is more to the story than he is letting on. The biggest irony is that Congress matched his defense funding request dollar for dollar. The truth is that President Obama is playing politics with our national security and the welfare of our troops simply because he wants Congress to exceed domestic spending caps that he signed into law. Presidents have vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act only four times in the past fifty years, but this is the first time in history a Commander in Chief has rejected funding for his troops because of something completely unrelated to the bill. Even more confusing is that the president has rejected the funding mechanism that will pay our troops and support their families back home exactly one week after extending operations in Afghanistan. This is just one more example of the president putting politics before the needs of people. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today Congressman Cresent Hardy made the following statement on the introduction of The Surface Transportation Reauthorization & Reform Act of 2015, which will designate the extension of a new federal interstate connecting Northern and Southern Nevada: “Countless advocates and leaders have worked over the years to build a better transportation system in Nevada. I am proud to help lead through the House a measure that brings this dream one step closer to reality. Connecting Nevada’s two largest cities and the towns in between will advance lucrative business opportunities to strengthen our economy, promote job growth for families in need, and facilitate better access to health care across the state. “This expansion builds a bridge between communities that have been separated for far too long by a seven-hour drive or an expensive flight. Nevadans are already well connected by our Western heritage and shared values; it’s about time they were connected by a reasonable transportation network,” said Congressman Hardy. Congressman Hardy serves as Vice Chair of the Highways and Transit Subcommittee within the larger House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “Congressman Hardy’s knowledge of the economic drivers in both rural and urban Nevada proved a valuable asset in drafting this legislation to improve our Nation’s infrastructure, and Nevadans are fortunate to have someone like Cresent Hardy in their corner,” said Congressman Bill Shuster, Chair of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “This legislation isn’t just for Nevada," Hardy said. "It provides stability and direction for states trying to make long-term plans to improve their own transportation network. Having overseen the construction of numerous roads and bridges myself, I know the value of good planning and have seen the challenges brought on by inadequate public funding for long overdue projects. As Congress moves to address differences between the House and Senate versions, I look forward to further securing the passage of the I-11 extension and other critical improvements to our national infrastructure.” The highway bill reauthorizes federal surface transportation programs for another six years with $261 billion for highway programs and $55 billion for transit programs. After the House version is passed, it will be considered against a similar Senate passed version before it can be sent to the president’s desk for his signature. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to lift the export ban on U.S. crude oil: “Today’s vote updates an antiquated policy that punishes American owned businesses and curtails the energy revolution we have been privileged to experience in recent years. Lifting the crude oil export ban will create thousands of U.S. jobs for people desperately in need of work and lower prices at the pump for everyone else. “Our nation is blessed with a vast array of natural resources that serve as a valuable component of a healthy economy if we strategically and responsibly manage their use. Opening the market to America’s crude oil will also send a signal to our European allies that they have another alternative to oil from Russia and–soon enough–Iran. This policy change is a win for us and our allies.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) held an investigative hearing today on a new labor rule that would require small businesses to expand the number of employees receiving overtime pay and put at risk competitive compensation packages for existing salaried employees. “Small business owners and their employees should be afraid of what is about to be forced on them by the Department of Labor. Competitive compensation packages for a host of employees will be seriously threatened and potentially changed to an hourly rate that isn’t sustainable for most of Nevada’s small businesses. Had my business been required to make this change, my employees could have lost their health insurance and other benefits,” said Congressman Hardy, Chair of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations. On July 6, 2015, the Department of Labor proposed increasing the number of employees required to receive overtime pay by raising the current salary threshold. This threshold, last adjusted in 2004 to $23,660, would require all employers to provide overtime pay to any employee making less than $50,440, regardless of existing salary and benefits. According to estimates provided by the Department of Labor, this would impact 211,000 small businesses nationally. “A one-size-fits-all approach from Washington rarely works for our diverse nation. This requirement removes an employer’s ability to recruit and retain their best workers. Being a salaried employee brings both demands and flexibility – a flexibility that is lost by forcing anyone into an hourly wage. Nothing prevents a business owner from providing benefits reflective of long hours, but we need to preserve their freedom to make these decisions based on their own financial ability. “I have heard from retailers, home builders, and restaurateurs who all shared concerns on how this would impact their workforce. If the President wants this to happen, let’s have that conversation where it should be – in Congress,” said Hardy. To read Congressman Hardy’s opening statement at this hearing, visit here. For more information exploring this issue, visit here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) será el anfitrión de la Cumbre de la Herencia Hispana, un evento gratuito que conmemora el Mes de la Herencia Hispana y dara a conocer a recursos educativos y otras oportunidades para el éxito a la disposición de la comunidad Latina. Este evento ocurrirá el sábado, 10 de octubre a las 9:00 a.m. hasta el mediodía en el Colegio del Sur de Nevada en el Cheyenne Campus. Los asistentes pueden venir por la totalidad o parte del evento, como sus horarios permiten. "El Mes de la Herencia Hispana es un tiempo para que todos los estadounidenses celebren la historia y la cultura de nuestra comunidad Latina y para reconocer las enormes contribuciones que los Latinos han hecho para ayudar a fortalecer a nuestra nación y nuestro estado. Me siento orgulloso de ser anfitrión de la Cumbre de la Herencia Hispana para abordar cuestiones importantes para los Latinos y todas las comunidades sobre la educación, la inmigración y la economía," dijo el Congresista Hardy. Los participantes podrán asistir a sesiones de información sobre los procesos de inmigración y en la aplicación para la universidad y la ayuda federal para estudiantes. Los asistentes también tendrán la oportunidad de explorar los recursos relacionados con el Inglés como Segundo Idioma (ESL) y el Desarrollo de Educación General (GED). Los participantes del evento podrán escuchar a un grupo dinámico de oradores, entre ellos: el Congresista Hardy; Fernando Romero, Presidente de Hispanics and Politics; Dr. Michael Richards, Presidente y Director Ejecutivo del Colegio del Sur de Nevada; Julián Adem, Cónsul General de México; y Otto Mérida, Presidente y Director Ejecutivo de la Cámara de Comercio Latina. Una amplia variedad de organizaciones tendrán puestos disponibles durante el evento proporcionando materiales y recursos de varios colegios, escuelas profesionales y vocacionales, agencias federales, cámaras de comercio y mucho más. Las personas interesadas en asistir a la Cumbre de la Herencia Hispana del Congresista Hardy pueden comunicarse con Kelly Espinoza o Arianni Valencia directamente a Kelly.Espinoza@mail.house.gov, Arianni.Valencia@mail.house.gov o (702) 912-1634. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) will host a Hispanic Heritage Summit, a free event that commemorates Hispanic Heritage Month by raising awareness of education resources and other opportunities for success available to the Latino community. This event will take place on Saturday, October 10th from 9:00 a.m. to noon at the College of Southern Nevada Cheyenne Campus. Attendees may come for all or part of the event, as their schedules allow. “Hispanic Heritage Month is a time for all Americans to celebrate the rich history and culture of our Latino community and to recognize the tremendous contributions Latinos have made to help strengthen our nation and our state. I am proud to host the Hispanic Heritage Summit to address issues important to Latinos and all communities, such as education, immigration and the economy,” said Congressman Hardy. Participants will be able to attend information sessions on immigration processes and on applying for college and federal student aid. Attendees will also have the opportunity to explore resources related to English as a Second Language (ESL) and General Education Development (GED). Event participants will hear from a dynamic group of speakers, including: Congressman Hardy; Fernando Romero, President of Hispanics and Politics; Dr. Michael Richards, President and CEO of the College of Southern Nevada; Julian Adem, Consul of Mexico; and Otto Merida, President and CEO of the Latin Chamber of Commerce. A wide-variety of organizations will have information booths available throughout the entirety of the event providing materials and resources from various colleges, vocational and trade schools, federal agencies, chambers of commerce and much more. Individuals interested in attending Congressman Hardy’s Hispanic Heritage Summit may contact Kelly Espinoza or Arianni Valencia directly at Kelly.Espinoza@mail.house.gov, Arianni.Valencia@mail.house.gov or (702) 912-1634. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement on House passage of the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act: “I was proud to vote today for the passage of the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. Our troops deserve the right tools to protect themselves as they defend the banner of freedom at home and abroad. This NDAA carries with it important reforms that will help us save money on complicated acquisitions, recruit and retain service members with compensation plans that better reflect changes in the private sector, and provide programs that facilitate a healthy transition to civilian life after returning home. I am also pleased to have contributed portions of this legislation that will allow America’s small businesses to better participate in the critical support of military operations. Qualified Americans in all walks of life want to support the military’s mission, and they should have the opportunity to do so. If President Obama vetoes this bill, he will be choosing party politics and legacy-building pet projects over protecting America’s national interests. All of this despite the fact that this NDAA meets the funding levels the President requested. As a conference committee member for this bill, I understand the difficult decisions needed to bring us to this point. I hope the president recognizes it, too. I urge the president to sign this well-thought out and bipartisan bill.” Chairman of the House Small Business Committee, Steve Chabot, said, “I’m especially proud of Small Business Committee member Cresent Hardy for seeing his excellent ideas through to the end of this process and giving small businesses a strong voice in this vital legislation.” Media Note: Congressman Hardy sponsored legislation that was included in the 2016 National Defense Authorization Act. This bill, the Small Business Contractor's Clarification Act, made it easier for small businesses to provide services on federal contracts by clarifying the differences between service providers and manufactures in the contracting process. This legislation also opens new opportunities for women-owned small businesses and small businesses owned and operated by service-disabled veterans. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to new labor policies unfairly targeting small businesses that contract with the federal government, Congressman Cresent Hardy held a joint hearing today investigating the impacts of President Obama’s executive Order 13,673. As Chairman of the Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight, and Regulations, Representative Hardy issued the following statement: “This Executive Order is another example of overreach that has become a hallmark of the Obama Administration. Anyone who has spent time in the private sector like I have knows this executive order unfairly targets the very small businesses that are the lifeblood of the U.S. economy. In my experience, if small construction companies like I owned would have had to comply by these rules – and make sure that all of their sub-contractors did the same – the very infrastructure and buildings that utilize government dollars would never have been built in this country. Bad actors should never receive a federal contract, but we already have a process in place to weed them out. Instead of using the existing process, this administration is imposing significant new burdens on all federal contractors that mean bad business for their employees and the federal government.” For more background on the issue, visit here. Visit here for Hardy’s opening and closing remarks for Small Business Hearing: “The Blacklist: Are Small Businesses Guilty Until Proven Innocent?” ###
09.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement regarding President Xi Jinping’s state visit: “I welcome Chinese President Xi Jinping to Washington, D.C. This visit is an important opportunity for our nations to address some of the distinct differences in our approaches to government and international involvement. President Obama must work to guarantee that both nations operate by the same rules of engagement to ensure a fair deal for American companies. American and Chinese intellectual property must be respected to preserve a healthy economy, and any breach of trust in these areas should be acknowledged.�? ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Cresent Hardy released the following statement in response to Pope Francis's address to Congress: “I was honored to participate in today’s proceedings, representing the first time any pope has addressed a joint meeting of Congress. Today’s meeting stands as a symbol of all that makes America great: diversity of opinion, love for our fellowman, and a passion to come together for the betterment of society. Though I may not agree with every viewpoint of Pope Francis, I respect his efforts to bring all people together – no matter their personal or political beliefs.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) released the following statement regarding Pope Francis’ United States visit and canonization of Junipero Serra: “I join with our Catholic neighbors and friends in celebrating the historic visit of His Holiness, Pope Francis. His time in the United States and the canonization of the West’s own Junipero Serra mark a significant recognition of America’s diverse history and values. The American West wouldn’t be what it is today without pioneering spirits like Father Serra. Father Serra’s devotion to his fellowman can be felt in the lives of countless modern spiritual descendants and many of the missions he founded in the late 1700s have transformed into some of America’s greatest cities. It is a fitting honor for him to be the first Hispanic American saint canonized on U.S. soil by the first Latin American Bishop of Rome. I join with others in recognition of the heritage this dedicated individual contributed to our great nation.” Media Note: Congressman Cresent Hardy is a cosponsor of H.Res. 426, recognizing Hispanic Heritage Month and celebrating the heritage and contributions of Latinos in the United States. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) released the following statement after learning of the U.S. Department of Interior’s decision to finalize its land use plans for the greater sage-grouse:“I was very disappointed to learn of the Department of Interior’s decision to aggressively advance an agenda that puts the interests of a small contingent of environmental extremists over those of rural Nevada's hardworking families. Today's announcement confirms that this effort was never entirely about protecting any particular species. It is yet another stark reminder of the challenges Western states like Nevada face when the federal government controls so much of the land within our borders. Despite controlling 84 percent of the greater sage-grouse’s range in our state, the federal government has chosen to punish our communities for its own mismanagement by severely restricting every Nevadan’s access to our public lands. Without access to traditional land uses – whether mineral exploration, energy development, or ranching - states like Nevada wouldn't be what they are today. This policy not only disregards our historic way of life, but it also threatens the local economies of some of the hardest hit areas from the Great Recession. I encourage our federal land management agencies to focus the same amount of energy and attention on solving the very real threats to sage-brush habitat, like wildfires and invasive species, that continue to ravage the West.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.15.2015	His Holiness Pope Francis of the Holy See will be delivering a historic address to Congress on September 24, 2015. The Joint Meeting will commence at 10:00 a.m. ET, and will be simulcast live on the West Lawn of the Capitol. Following His address, Pope Francis is expected to make a brief appearance on the West Front. Members of Congress have been provided with a limited number of standing-room only tickets for the West Lawn simulcast to distribute to their constituents. If you would like the opportunity to attend this unprecedented event, please email Deborah Hansen (deborah.hansen@mail.house.gov) the following information: Name(s) of those planning to attend Address (Tickets are reserved for residents of Nevada’s 4th Congressional District) Phone number(s) The number of tickets you are requesting If you are selected, you will receive an email with detailed information about picking up your tickets and other logistics. *Reminder: Tickets are reserved for residents of Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. To verify your address, please click here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement following today’s vote on the Iran Nuclear Deal: “Americans have learned for themselves that this deal puts the region and the global community at risk. It amounts to inadequate inspections, a frightening implementation timeline, and provides $150 billion in sanctions relief to the world’s single largest state sponsor of terrorism. Under this agreement, Iran will be allowed to pursue intercontinental ballistic missiles after eight years and conceivably attack any nation in the world. Worse still, in 15 years the regime will have all limitations on uranium enrichment removed. If Iran is only two or three months away from devising a nuclear weapon today, imagine how close will they be with a robust economy and no enrichment limitations? Supporters contend that we should accept a bad deal over no deal. This is a false choice. We owe it to the American people and future generations to do everything we can to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran. This deal fails miserably.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.11.2015	Video of Hardy reflects on the power of 9/11 to bring our country together WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement in recognition of the 14th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks: "Everyone knows exactly where they were and what they were doing on this day 14 years ago. All of us looked on in horror as we were brazenly and deliberately attacked in our homeland. While our enemies tried to destroy us that day, they only succeeded in strengthening our resolve to come together as a country and stand taller and stronger than ever before. 14 years on, we continue to honor the fallen, the brave first responders who answered the call, and all of our courageous military members who continue to fight to defend our freedom. ” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) had the following to say after his first vote series following the August District Work Period. “While the time I spend meeting with my constituents back in Nevada is never long enough, I was pleased to join my House colleagues in passing several pieces of legislation that will help grow our economy and improve the health and wellbeing of so many Americans.” Today the House voted to pass S. 1359, the E-Warranty Act of 2015 by a vote of 388-2. This bill will bring America’s warranty rules into the 21st century by giving manufacturers the option to post written warranty terms online in an easily accessible electronic format. In doing so, the E-Warranty Act will increase consumer access to warranty information while also allowing companies to leverage new technologies and reduce waste. “This is a commonsense bill that will make it easier for consumers to access warranty information about their purchases. In the digital age, Americans expect information to be available on their tablet or smartphone. I am glad that this legislation will finally allow our laws to catch up to the private sector.” The House also voice-voted two other bills. The first, the Early Hearing Detection and Intervention Act of 2015, reauthorizes a program for screening and treating deaf and hard-of-hearing newborns through 2020. The other, the National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting Reauthorization Act of 2015, continues funding for states to improve and maintain electronic database systems for monitoring the dispensing of controlled substances. “I was glad to see the House pass two bills that have such strong bipartisan backing. Early detection of hearing loss is so critical for every child’s future. We owe it to these children to provide them with the vital screening and treatments they deserve.” “At a time when prescription drug abuse continues to afflict far too many of our communities, we must do everything we can to keep controlled substances off of the streets and out of the hands of our children and loved ones. This bill goes a long way in combating this harmful trend.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
09.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released the following statement in recognition of the celebration of Labor Day. “On Labor Day, I want to honor and thank Nevadans who work every day building community and family. Our tireless work ethic is the cornerstone of our economy and the spirit that built our state. I will continue to fight for expanding education opportunities, a strong economy and growing good jobs for the people of Nevada. Happy Labor Day!” said Congressman Hardy. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.28.2015	LAS VEGAS – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) will host a free community workshop for individuals seeking information and guidance on how to better understand the processes and procedures required to successfully navigate the immigration system from a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration (USCIS) official. The workshop will take place on Monday, August 31st from 8:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. at North Las Vegas City Hall. “It is important for the community to have access to the information necessary to steer through USCIS without being taken advantage of. Federal workshops like this play a key role in educating and helping people when dealing with immigration matters,” said Congressman Hardy. Workshop participants will learn how to properly fill out necessary paperwork, avoid scams associated with immigration services, learn how to access information, apply for petitions for relatives and much more all in this free tax paid service. “The USCIS Las Vegas field office strives to provide accurate and useful information to the community and promote an awareness and understanding of citizenship, while also ensuring the integrity of our immigration system,” said Jeanne Kent, Field Director of the Las Vegas USCIS Field Office. Individuals interested in attending Congressman Hardy’s Citizenship and Immigration Workshop may contact his Immigration Caseworker and Hispanic Outreach Coordinator, Kelly Espinoza, directly at Kelly.Espinoza@mail.house.gov or (702) 912-1634. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.26.2015	LAS VEGAS – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) tomorrow is hosting a hands-on Census Data Workshop designed for members of the community seeking to learn how to access census data on local trends and understand elements of the areas they reside in. This workshop will take place tomorrow from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. at North Las Vegas City Hall. “Small businesses, nonprofits, government agencies and individuals interested in researching and knowing how to access census data to gain knowledge about the communities they serve, will benefit greatly from my Census Data Workshop. Learning how to utilize the valuable resources the U.S. Census Bureau has to offer can assist community groups in knowing more about the populations surrounding them and use this information to, for example, enhance their grant applications,” said Congressman Hardy. Workshop participants from various organizations, businesses and agencies will learn how to utilize online data resources from a U.S. Census Bureau expert to help build an effective case for project funding. “It is important for the community to know that the U.S. Census Bureau serves as a leading source that provides quality data available to all entities and persons. I am happy to work with Congressman Hardy and his team to teach people how to use the U.S. Census Bureau’s data as an effective tool for research purposes and requests for funding,” stated Eric Coyle, Data Dissemination Specialist for the U.S. Census Bureau. Individuals interested in attending Congressman Hardy’s Census Data Workshop may contact Shareece Bates, his Outreach Representative, directly at Shareece.Bates@mail.house.gov or (702) 912-1634. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.21.2015	NORTH LAS VEGAS – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) issued the following statement after the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) announced its completion of a conveyance of 10,055 acres of public land to the City of Yerington. “I could not be happier for the City of Yerington. This land conveyance will provide a much-needed boost to the local economy by generating opportunities for ranching, mining, and other traditional commercial activities that will create jobs for the hardworking people of Lyon County. With more than 81 percent of our state currently controlled by the Federal government, Nevadans know all too well how difficult it can to be plan for vital economic development. I would like to commend Senators Dean Heller and Harry Reid, as well as Congressman Mark Amodei for their tireless work to get this over the finish line in the 113th Congress. I hope that this conveyance can set the tone for productive and consultative interactions with the BLM going forward.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.20.2015	NORTH LAS VEGAS – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) issued the following statement on former Nevada State Assembly Speaker and Minority Leader Marilyn Kirkpatrick’s appointment to the Clark County Commission. “I would like to congratulate my former colleague and good friend, Marilyn, on her recent appointment to the Clark County Commission. Marilyn has always demonstrated a steadfast commitment to her fellow Nevadans throughout her years in public service. Her tenacious work ethic and can-do attitude have always allowed her to get the job done. I am confident that the people of District B will be in good hands with Marilyn as their new County Commissioner. I am honored to have the opportunity to work with her again in this new capacity to assist the constituents we share. I commend Marilyn on her invaluable service to Nevada and wish her the best of luck as Clark County’s newest Commissioner.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.06.2015	NORTH LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement today to mark the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act. "Today marks a half century since the Voting Rights Act was signed into law. This landmark piece of legislation, passed with bipartisan support, was a resounding victory for all Americans and a reiteration of our faith in the power of free and fair elections. Fifty years on, we are reminded of the debt of gratitude we owe to those intrepid individuals who faced down oppressive discrimination and risked their safety, and in some cases, their lives to secure the sacred right to vote for all.As the Representative for Nevada's 4th Congressional District‪, I have the privilege of serving one of the most diverse areas of the country. Our diversity is our strength, and together, as rural Nevadans and urban Nevadans, Nevadans of all ethnic and racial backgrounds, we make our state and our country better.Everyone deserves to have their voice heard at the polls. We owe it to ourselves and our fellow Americans to increase voter participation, guard against fraud, and defend the most foundational principle of our democracy: the right to vote." ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today issued a statement in light of President Barack Obama's announcement of the EPA's announcement of a final rule regarding carbon dioxide output from power plants. The congressman earlier this year helped pass in the House the Ratepayer Protection Act of 2015, H.R. 2042, to give states more time to comply in the face of onerous regulations forced on them by the EPA. “Families across the country are going to end up paying 15 percent more on their energy bills just because the Obama administration won’t rely on anything other than top-down, heavy regulation to fix the world’s problems,” Hardy said. “Nevada and other states should continue to lead the way to safely and responsibly develop options tailored to the resources in each state.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) departs the U.S. Capitol for Nevada this week, having pushed through the latest of dozens of hard-hitting bills that achieved real results and solved problems for Nevadans and the nation. The House of Representatives disbands for the first break of this length since the beginning of the term; dubbed a “recess” for Congress, the House will reconvene the first week of September. “Some people call this a 'break' -- I don’t,” Hardy said. “To me, this is another opportunity to explore the pressing matters that my constituents need me to focus on when Congress begins passing meaningful reforms again in September,” Hardy added. “That’s why I’ll be visiting small businesses, meeting personally with constituents and local leaders, and traveling to Israel, where I’ll be digging deep into the details of how this Congress can protect our allies and American interests in that region.” In the first quarter of 2015, the House passed 193 bills, well above the forty-year average of 127. Of those, 32 passed the Senate – more than the twenty-five-year average of 29. “Some of the most rewarding moments during this session have been in committee hearing rooms, where I am stunned time and again to hear witnesses articulate just how urgently they need us to act to overcome the burdensome regulations and unilateral roadblocks imposed by myriad federal agencies and this administration,” Hardy said. “We’re weekly identifying ways to open doors and kick down barriers to opportunity at the local level. And the people in the 4th district are telling me we’re finally headed in the right direction.” Among the bills passed, many with bipartisan support, were successes targeted at meeting Nevada’s unique needs and upholding its Western-state ideals. “We’ve achieved so much for small businesses, seniors, veterans and our rural communities in such a short time,” Hardy added. “We’re putting aside politics and passing solid solutions to cut top-down regulations – giving individuals and families the freedom they need to pursue success on their own terms, and in their own way.” In his first seven months in office, Rep. Hardy championed, cosponsored and voted in favor of bills to help Nevada’s communities and the country see better opportunities – here are some highlights: Transportation, Land and Western Ideals: Intermountain West Corridor Development Act of 2015, H.R. 1612 (original cosponsor; effort to expand Interstate 11) Western Water and American Food Security Act of 2015, H.R. 2898 (cosponsor; passed House) Land Acquisition to Cut National Debt Act, H.R. 1445 (sponsor) Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, H.R. 2647 (passed House with Hardy amendment) Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act, H.R. 1815 (sponsor) Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015, H.R. 3236 (passed House) Waters of the United States Regulatory Protection Act of 2015, H.R. 594 (cosponsor) Nevada Native Nations Land Act, H.R. 2733 (cosponsor) Veterans, Military and National Security: VA Accountability Act of 2015, H.R. 1994 (passed House) Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act, H.R. 203 (signed into law) National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2016, H.R. 1735 (passed House; Hardy selected as conferee; pending House-Senate conference agreement) Protecting Cyber Networks Act, H.R. 1560 (passed House) Hire More Heroes Act of 2015, H.R. 22 (cosponsor; passed House) Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2015, H.R. 969 (cosponsor) Enhancing Safety at Military Installations Act, H.R. 3115 (cosponsor) Small Business: Veterans Entrepreneurship Act of 2015, H.R. 2499 (signed into law) Small Business Contractor’s Clarification Act of 2015, H.R. 1583 (sponsor) America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act, H.R. 636 (passed House) Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2015, H.R. 527 (cosponsor; passed House) Healthcare: 21st Century Cures Act (cosponsor; passed House) Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, H.R. 36 (cosponsor; passed House) Life at Conception Act, H.R. 816 (cosponsor) No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, H.R. 7 (passed House) The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, H.R. 2 (signed into law) Ax the Tax on Middle Class Americans’ Health Plans Act, H.R. 879 (cosponsor) Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015, H.R. 160 (cosponsor; passed House) Education, Family and Community: Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, S. 178 (signed into law) Student Success Act, H.R. 5 (passed House) Congressional Gold Medal recognizing Selma Heroes, H.R. 431 (cosponsor; signed into law) Boys Town Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, H.R. 893 (cosponsor; signed into law) Expanding and Strengthening 529 College Savings, H.R. 529 (passed House) Accountability, Oversight, Spending and Debt: Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2015, H.R. 427 (cosponsor; passed House) Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, H.R. 1732 (cosponsor; passed House) APPROPRIATIONS INFOGRAPHIC: ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today released details of his upcoming schedule, which takes him on a sweeping tour of the eastern rural area of the 4th Congressional District, face-to-face meetings with constituents, and a trip to examine American interests in Israel. “When I’m able to get out here on the ground, not only do I feel most at home, but it’s actually where a lot of great ideas are generated – by my fellow Nevadans – that I then can take back to D.C. for action,” Hardy said. “It’s important for me to be talking to constituents constantly, whether it’s in North Las Vegas, Pahrump or the rural areas, and everywhere in between.” Immediately upon arrival from the Capitol, the congressman will meet next week with small business leaders, convene a roundtable with Jewish community leaders, highlight transportation work in North Las Vegas, and meet with local and state officials regarding land issues. A major focus of the next month will remain veterans issues, including the long-delayed VA clinic that thousands of Pahrump and Nye County veterans await. While away from the Capitol, Congress is also considering the Obama Administration’s Iran nuclear agreement, a measure Hardy says he doesn’t take lightly. In a recent video, the congressman expressed his deep concern on the matter, as he digs into the details over the less than 60 days remaining for Congress to evaluate the proposed step. The congressman’s trip to Israel, planned for the early-middle of the month, will better inform his consideration of the nuclear agreement, as he plans to see the implications for America’s close allies first-hand. “While we’re in Israel, it’s important to me to hear from the top leadership there how a nuclear-armed Iran could destabilize the region, and threaten our allies and interests,” Hardy said. “We can’t let Iran win.” Upon return from Israel, Hardy plans a slate of engagements, including a tour through the eastern rural portions of his district. Additional details of Congressman Hardy’s schedule will be released as they become available. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) today aided passage of a measure to give veterans better care by giving the VA greater authority to dismiss bureaucrats standing in the way of culture change at the organization, which has been plagued by inefficiency and lack of responsiveness to veterans’ needs. “We’re giving the VA more latitude to clean house, which we’ve not seen enough of yet,” Hardy said. “At the end of the day, the health of the VA and ultimately the health of our veterans are in the hands of this administration, and Congress is going to continue to demand immediate progress. I’m thankful we have an outstanding acting director at the medical center in North Las Vegas, and we need more like Bill Caron. But at the national level, we’re seeing sluggish change, which hampers quality, accessible care for veterans like those in Pahrump and Nye County, who have been waiting an absurd amount of time for a new clinic – and that’s totally unacceptable.” The congressman wrote a letter to the VA Secretary earlier this year, demanding progress on the much-needed new clinic, running years behind schedule, for the more than 10,000 veterans in Pahrump and across Nye County. The VA looks set to finally award a contract on the project in mid-August, while the congressman is in the district. “We’re taking care of the VA’s issues, beginning at the top,” Hardy said. “I’m not going to sit around and wait for the VA’s leadership to shift into high gear in caring for our vets, which is why I chaired a joint hearing a few weeks ago to hear whistleblower testimony that the VA and Obama Administration have failed our veterans, small business owners and the American taxpayer through fraud and manipulation in reporting small business goals.” The hearing, which precipitated further investigation by Congress, was one of a number of steps Hardy and his colleagues are taking to improve care for veterans. “We’ve got to fight for those who fought for us,” Hardy said. “Our military is the most elite, technologically advanced fighting force the world has ever seen, so why does the way we take care of them after they’ve fought stand in such stark contrast?” The congressman will be meeting with veterans while in the district this month, during the August recess. Bill FAQs: Does the VA Accountability Act make all VA employees “at-will employees”? No, the VA Accountability Act does not make all VA employees at-will employees. The VA still must have cause to fire every VA employee and it does not lower the evidentiary standard (i.e. what is required to prove misconduct/incompetence) for termination. Does the VA Accountability Act end due process for all VA employees? No, the VA Accountability Act still allows an employee to appeal a dismissal through the Merit Service Protection Board (although the appeal period is unpaid for the employee). The Office of Special Counsel is also an option for employees. Can the VA Accountability Act be used against whistleblowers? No, the bill very clearly states that the VA Secretary cannot use the new powers granted to him by the VA Accountability Act against whistleblowers. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4), vice chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, today issued the following statement upon passage of the Surface Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015, H.R. 3236, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives with 385 yeas, 84 nays, 1 present. "We'll continue to work toward achieving a long-term highway bill, and we can accept nothing less for Nevada, where transportation is key to the economic success of rural and urban economies alike," Hardy said. "This step today helps us keep the process in motion and ultimately leads to a responsible solution to fund our nation’s highways for the American taxpayer." ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives to highlight how Congress is working to aid small businesses and encourage job creation in Nevada and across the nation, by reining in the creation of burdensome regulations. Congressman Hardy was an original cosponsor of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2015, H.R. 427, which passed with bipartisan support in the House yesterday, 243 to 165. "As a former small business owner, I’m not going to let Nevada’s entrepreneurs and job creators be weighed down like this anymore," Hardy said after the vote. "Anyone who has ever owned or run a business understands the effects of unchecked government regulations on the American economy. By allowing Washington bureaucrats to continue to stuff an overwhelming amount of regulations into congressionally passed legislation, we are essentially handing over authority to federal agencies to legislate as they please." VIDEO: Click image below to watch on YouTube or click here to download broadcast-quality footage On Congressman Hardy's YouTube page: Click here to view On C-SPAN: Click here to view Background, per Republican Study Committee: By 2014, the new regulations issued under President Obama filled 486,500 pages of the federal register. An additional 2,375 rules were proposed by the Administration in 2014 alone. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that over the last five years, the Obama Administration has issued 82 “major rules” – or rules with more than $100 million in economic impact – each year. The price that businesses pay to comply with complicated regulations is around $1.86 trillion each year, according to a 2014 report from the Competitive Enterprise Institute. Regulations are especially hard for America’s small businesses. “It's getting more expensive to be an employer and small business owners say that's making it harder for them to make money,” the Associated Press reported last week. “Small companies also face the prospect of higher overtime expenses under a proposed federal regulation.” Federal regulations also disproportionately impact America’s manufacturers, especially small manufacturers. The National Association of Manufacturers estimates that compliance with federal regulation costs manufacturers with fewer than 50 employees a whopping $34,671 a year. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. House of Representatives today saw the bipartisan passage of H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, by a vote of 241 to 179, after which Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) issued the following statement: "I oppose policies that shield criminals who are here unlawfully, from deportation – a view shared by Otto Mérida, president of the Latin Chamber of Commerce. As Mr. Mérida says*, we need to get 'serious about this issue,' and reward those who've done things the right way – those hardworking, talented immigrants of all races and backgrounds – not those who've broken the law. We are a nation of immigrants, and we are a nation of laws. These truths are not mutually exclusive, and we must act to ensure our immigration system works seamlessly with local authorities to uphold public safety. At the end of the day, who isn't in favor of keeping our communities safe from criminals, regardless of whether those criminals are U.S. citizens, legal residents, or undocumented individuals? By denying criminals a safe harbor, we keep everyone in our community safe, irrespective of their immigration status. Local law enforcement agencies have a responsibility to follow the law, and Congress has a responsibility under the Constitution to ‘insure domestic tranquility.’ We’ve identified a potential public safety issue, and by passing this law, Congress is fulfilling this Constitutional responsibility." The congressman released the same statement in Spanish: "Me opongo a las pólizas que protegen criminales que están aquí ilegalmente, de la deportación – una visión compartida de Otto Mérida, presidente de la Cámara de Comercio Latina. Como dice* el Sr. Mérida, tenemos que estar 'serios sobre este tema,' y recompensar a aquellos que han hecho las cosas bien – inmigrantes talentosos de todas las razas y orígenes, que han trabajado duro – no aquellos que han quebrado la ley. Somos una nación de inmigrantes, y somos una nación de leyes. Estos hechos pueden existir juntos. Debemos actuar para asegurar que nuestro sistema de inmigración trabaje junto con las autoridades locales para garantizar la seguridad pública. Al final del día, quien no está a favor de mantener nuestras comunidades seguras de los criminales, independientemente de que esos criminales sean ciudadanos, residentes legales o individuos indocumentados? Al negar los criminales un puerto seguro, mantenemos la seguridad de todos en nuestra comunidad, independientemente de su estatus migratorio. Las agencias policiales locales tienen la responsabilidad de cumplir con la ley, y el Congreso tiene la responsabilidad bajo la Constitución para ' asegurar la tranquilidad doméstica. Hemos identificado un posible problema de seguridad pública, y al pasar a esta ley, el Congreso está cumpliendo con esta responsabilidad constitucional." Congressman Hardy reached out to multiple local law enforcement agencies in the 4th Congressional District in advance of his vote in favor of H.R. 3009, to better understand the nature of their interaction with ICE. *Per Mr. Merida's comments as reported in a recent Las Vegas Review-Journal article ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Following word from the U.S. Marine Corps of the tragic shooting deaths today of four U.S. Marines in Chattanooga, Tenn., Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) issued the following statement: "I am outraged and grieved to hear of the shooting deaths of four U.S. Marines, and injuries to others, today in Tennessee. My heart goes out to the victims' loved ones, friends and fellow service members. Our troops willingly put their lives on the line in deployed locations worldwide, and the last place they should feel threatened is at home on U.S. soil. Early news reports indicate the law enforcement response was swift, decisive, and resulted in the death of a single known shooter. I trust the ensuing multiagency investigation will bring to justice any others who may have been involved in this horrific act.” U.S. Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus also issued a statement on the situation, available here. Update -- 7/16/2015, 4:45 p.m.: This statement has been revised to reflect evolving news reports of injuries sustained by multiple victims, in addition to the deaths of the four Marines. Update -- 7/18/2015: The U.S. Navy is now reporting that a fifth victim, a Sailor, succumbed to injuries early this morning. "I'm saddened to hear that yet another of our brave service members lost their life to this cruel act of terror," Hardy said Saturday. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4), vice chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, today issued the following statement upon passage of H.R. 3038, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015, Part II, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives 312 to 119. "Today the House took an important step toward achieving a long-term highway bill. To accomplish that objective, we need to keep our negotiators at the table. Passing the Highway Transportation Funding Act of 2015 is an important milestone that will keep the process in motion and ultimately lead to a responsible solution to fund our nation’s highways for the American taxpayer.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement today after the Obama Administration announced a nuclear deal with Iran: "I understand the difficulties of attempting to stabilize one of the most volatile regions in the world, but we would do well to remember Iran is one of the primary threats to achieving that goal. Iran’s open threats to neighbors like Israel, its government sponsorship of terror around the world, and the confirmed killing of hundreds of U.S. soldiers are all reasons to question their long-term intentions. If initial reports are true: This agreement would provide billions of dollars in sanctions relief and only delay Iran’s breakout time to a nuclear bomb by a matter of months. The President can claim a victory with this deal – but it is a hollow one. Simply extending the time it takes for Iran to get a bomb still creates a future where Iran has a bomb. Before we remove the only barrier that brought Iran to the negotiating table, Congress needs to take the next 60 days to think long and hard about how we want a 21st century Middle East to look." You can view Congressman Hardy's complete remarks by following this link to his YouTube page: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CH0Acj_d_-Q. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today was selected to represent the land interests of the state of Nevada as a conferee to complete the FY16 National Defense Authorization Act. The pick was announced by House Speaker John Boehner (OH-8), who released the following statement: “Congressman Hardy’s leadership on critical lands issues in Nevada, lifelong familiarity with the needs of the region, and presence of multiple military bases in his district, mean he brings a valuable perspective to the table,” Speaker Boehner said. Following the Speaker’s announcement, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate to complete the NDAA for our men and women in uniform,” Hardy said. “The Constitution clearly requires Congress to reflect the will of the people when using the power of the purse, and I consider it a sacred honor to do so in matters as important as funding our military and the programs that support them.” VIDEO: NDAA Conferees of House Natural Resources Committee announced on House floor Photo caption: Paratroopers assigned to the 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, N.C., converge on their drop zone during the U.S. Air Force Weapons School's Joint Forcible Entry Exercise 14B over the Nevada Test and Training Range, located in the 4th Congressional District, Dec. 6, 2014. The JFEX exercise is designed to simulate rapid deployment into a contested-degraded environment, and helps to maintain strong cohesion between Air Force and Army assets. (U.S. Air Force photo by Airman First Class Joshua Kleinholz) ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) released the following statement concerning President Barack Obama's designation today of more than 700,000 acres as Basin and Range National Monument, in the congressman’s district: “I feel strongly that the best management of our public lands comes only through methodical consideration and partnership across all levels of local, state and federal government. That’s why I’m disappointed for the Nevadans who were left out of the process, including the commissioners of both counties affected: Lincoln and Nye. In May, I broke the news of the Administration’s plan to make the Basin and Range National Monument designation, and this week introduced an amendment to protect local input and increase transparency with such designations, which was adopted and I hope to see pass in the near future. “We need to be sure local communities don’t have their concerns ignored by politicians eager to leave a legacy or pull favors for their friends by setting aside huge tracts of land. Nevada's rural county economies are particularly sensitive, and any decisions that restrict ranching, recreation or other types of land use activities should have as much local input as possible. We should empower local communities and local stakeholders most affected by monument designations under the Antiquities Act to have a legitimate voice in the process, but at the moment, they do not. Legacy building in the twilight of one’s career shouldn’t be the driver of our nation’s public land management.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, which contained Congressman Cresent Hardy’s (NV-4) amendment to empower the Secretary of the Interior to protect and better manage National Forest System Lands and public lands to improve, restore or reduce the risk of wildfire on those lands. “With my amendment, this bill not only keeps our forests healthier, but it is going to benefit ranchers in Nevada, by better caring for rangeland,” Hardy said. “It will address the disastrous consequences of catastrophic wildfire and other threats to our nation’s federal forests and rangelands and federal agencies’ current inability to meaningfully address those threats. Noxious weeds and other invasive species are a major impediment to resilient forests and rangelands and also negatively impact crucial wildlife habitat. Federal agencies must be able to remove and temper the spread of these noxious and invasive species in a timely and effective manner.” Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-4), the bill’s sponsor, praised Hardy’s amendment, following the bill’s passage, 262 to 167: “Congressman Hardy’s amendment demonstrates strategic foresight by protecting crucial forest and rangeland habitats in a way that helps ensure the livelihood of ranchers while also conserving these precious natural resources,” Westerman said. Specifically, Hardy’s amendment to the bill: Empowers the Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management to implement projects that will immediately reduce the threat of catastrophic wildfire while also improving crucial habitats on rangelands and forests. Utilizes certain grazing practices to combat the invasive species that increase the likelihood of catastrophic wildfires, which benefits ranchers and forest and rangeland health alike. Will simplify environmental process requirements, reduce project planning times and reduce the cost of implementing forest and rangeland management projects, while still ensuring robust protection of the environment through thorough environmental review. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – An amendment by Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) to mandate transparency and local input for national monument designations under the Antiquities Act, in counties where there is significant local opposition, was adopted today into H.R. 2822, the FY16 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. Following adoption of the amendment, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: “This is a big victory for local communities whose concerns are often ignored by politicians eager to leave a legacy or pull favors for their friends by setting aside huge tracts of land,” Hardy said. “Nevada's rural county economies are particularly sensitive, and any decisions that restrict ranching, recreation or other types of land use activities should have as much local input as possible. In Nevada, where roughly 85 percent of the land is controlled by the federal government, this is an important step that will give much-needed protection in our state and other Western states that face similar challenges. I strongly support our nation’s public lands. As an active hunter and outdoorsman, I marvel at the beauty of our landscapes, the unique flora, and abundant animal species that roam our terrain. But a recent, prominent example demonstrating the need for this amendment is the Administration’s draft proclamation to establish the ‘Basin and Range National Monument’ on more than 700,000 acres of land in Lincoln and Nye counties in my district. The sheer size of the proposed monument is staggering – as large as many Eastern states. This is about empowering local communities and local stakeholders most affected by monument designations, and will increase transparency, allow for local input, and provide for improved management of our public lands. It will also fulfill our responsibility to ensure that these communities have a legitimate voice in the process. I thank my colleagues, Congressmen Rob Bishop (UT-01), Trent Franks (AZ-08), Paul Gosar (AZ-04), Doug LaMalfa (CA-01), Doug Lamborn (CO-05), Steve Pearce (NM-02), Chris Stewart (UT-02), Scott Tipton (CO-03), and Greg Walden (OR-02), for their support of this amendment, which holds promise for their states as it does for Nevada.” In debate on the amendment yesterday evening, prior to adoption, Congressman Bishop, chairman of the House Committee on Natural Resources, stated his support for the initiative, and emphasized how it brought much-needed clarity to the outdated Antiquities Act. “The Antiquities Act was passed over a century ago, in 1906, when four states weren’t even in the union at that time; they were still territories,” Bishop said. “[The Antiquities Act] was not used by every president. […] It was used as a political weapon, and abused as a political weapon. The saddest part is there is absolutely no input that has to be guaranteed by this act. […] The people in the counties that are designated in this amendment need to have the right to have some input in how land decisions are [made] in this area. This is what this amendment does. Give them a chance to be heard, because under the present Antiquities Act, they are not heard.” Congressman Gosar, upon adoption of the amendment, issued the following statement expressing his concerns for how Arizona could be affected by a national monument designation by the president: “Arizona has experienced significant harm from special land use designations like this in the past. Important economic activities and multiple-use recreation currently takes place on these lands and has for generations. A unilateral declaration of the nearly two million acres in the Grand Canyon Watershed as a National Monument would stifle development, kill jobs and erode the extensive cooperation and success that federal and state agencies in Arizona have achieved to date. The House took bold action today by passing the Hardy-Gosar amendment that will ensure local stakeholder input and prevent executive land grabs in counties throughout the country,” Gosar said. Congressman Stewart also issued a statement upon adoption of the amendment, praising the move to give local communities increased input in the process: "I applaud the passage of Mr. Hardy’s amendment to the Interior Department funding bill. Over the years, the original intent of the Antiquities Act has morphed into huge Presidential land grabs with no input from Congress or the local communities most impacted by the designations. This amendment prevents the use of the Antiquities Act in areas that are more likely to be affected. Any designations on our lands should happen with local input – not through the Antiquities Act,” Stewart said. The amendment would not defund the Antiquities Act in its entirety. Rather, it is a targeted approach that simply prevents proposed monument designations from proceeding in those jurisdictions where local stakeholders have expressed opposition and their desire for increased intergovernmental collaboration. Text of the amendment can be found here. VIDEO: Congressman Hardy introduces amendment; Reps. Bishop and Gosar offer support on floor of House ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.02.2015	NORTH LAS VEGAS, Nev. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today met for the first time with the City of North Las Vegas’s newly installed Chief of Police Alexander Perez, who made history as the first Hispanic to be appointed to the position. “Chief Perez’s 24 years of experience speaks for itself, and I was glad to hear today of how he’s already working to build bridges that will bring this community together,” Congressman Hardy said. “His dedication to the people of North Las Vegas really stood out to me.” The pair met to discuss the state of law enforcement and safety in North Las Vegas, which is situated within the congressman’s district. “It’s good to know our elected officials are tuned in to what matters,” Chief Perez said. “Congressman Hardy’s office shares the fifth floor of North Las Vegas City Hall with some of my staff, which means he and his team are easily accessible, especially for residents who already have business to conduct with the City.” Constituents who need assistance solving issues with federal agencies can reach trained caseworkers at Congressman Hardy’s district office every weekday during business hours at 702-912-1634, or by visiting the office at 2250 N. Las Vegas Blvd., Suite 500, North Las Vegas, NV. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.01.2015	MT. CHARLESTON, Nev. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) visited Mt. Charleston and the new Spring Mountains Visitor Gateway to discuss safety during the fire season. “With the Fourth of July coming up, families are able to enjoy the many resources that Mt. Charleston and the Spring Mountains Visitor Gateway has to offer. It is important for us to make sure all visitors are safe during the fire season and that we are all aware of the precautions we must take to prevent wildfires so we can preserve this wonderful place for generations to come,” Congressman Hardy said. The Spring Mountains Visitor Gateway, which opened Friday, May 29, houses additional parking areas, new trail systems, educational and picnicking facilities, amphitheaters, way-finding information, and staff. The new visitor gateway also features the Silent Heroes of the Cold War Memorial, dedicated to the 14 individuals who died in a 1955 plane crash on Mt. Charleston, while en route to Groom Lake, commonly known as Area 51, as well as the Seven Stones Plaza that recognizes the seven Southern Paiute tribes’ (Nuwuvi) long-standing ancestral relationship with their creation place in the Spring Mountains. “Mt. Charleston provides Nevadans with the opportunity to engage in an array of recreational activities, including hiking and camping. We are happy to have Congressman Hardy visit our new Spring Mountains Visitor Gateway and raise awareness of using and taking care of our resources during this fire season,” stated Randy Swick, area manager of the Spring Mountains National Recreation Area. Congressman Hardy also attended the Mt. Charleston Fire Protection District transition ceremony to commemorate the district moving from the jurisdiction of the State of Nevada to that of Clark County. For more information on the Spring Mountains National Recreation Area, click here; click here for information on fire safety. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
07.01.2015	MOUNT CHARLESTON, Nev. – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV- 4) visitó Mt. Charleston y el nuevo centro para visitantes de Spring Mountains para discutir la importancia de la prevención de fuegos durante esta temporada de incendios. “Con las celebraciones de independencia este 4 de Julio acercándose, las familias podrán disfrutar de los muchos recursos y opciones que Mt. Charleston y el nuevo centro de visitantes en Spring Mountains tiene que ofrecer. Es importante asegurarnos que nuestros turistas permanezcan seguros durante la temporada de incendios y que todos estemos conscientes de las precauciones que debemos tomar para prevenir los incendios forestales, esto con el fin de poder preservar este maravilloso lugar para nuestras futuras generaciones,” añadió el Congresista Hardy. El centro de visitantes de Spring Mountains abrió sus puertas el Viernes, 29 de Mayo, y este centro ofrece zonas de estacionamiento, nuevas rutas para senderismo, instalaciones educativas, areas de picnic, áreas de información para visitantes, y espacio administrativo. La estructura también tiene el reconocimiento de los héroes silenciosos de la Guerra Fría, dedicado a las 14 personas que murieron en el accidente aéreo de 1955 sobre Mt. Charleston, mientras se trasladaban a Groom Lake, conocido como Área 51. El centro de visitantes tambien tiene la Siete Piedras Plaza que reconoce las siete tribus Paiute del sur (Nuwuvi) de relación ancestral con su lugar de creación en Spring Mountains. “Mt. Charleston ofrece a los residentes de Nevada y a sus visitantes con la oportunidad de participar en una variedad de actividades, como senderismo y camping. Estamos felices de tener al Congresista Hardy visitando nuestras nuevas instalaciones en Spring Mountains y así crear conciencia sobre el uso y el cuidado de nuestros recursos naturales durante la temporada de incendios," dijo Randy Swick, gerente de Spring Mountains National Recreation. El Congresista Hardy también asistió la ceremonia de transición para conmemorar el cambio de la jurisdicción y control del districto que estaba bajo el Estado de Nevada a la jurisdicción y control de Clark County. Para obtener más información sobre la zona de recreación en Mt. Charleston, haga clic aquí. Para más información sobre la prevención de incendios, haga clic aquí. ### El Congresista Cresent Hardy representa al 4to distrito de Nevada en la Cámara de Representantes en el Congreso. Es miembro del Comité de Recursos Naturales, del Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y del Comité de Pequeños Negocios.
07.01.2015	LAS VEGAS – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today toured the Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument to learn about the area’s educational and recreational resources. “This unique monument provides Southern Nevada’s families and visitors the opportunity to explore and learn about ancient animals, plants and environmental changes,” Congressman Hardy said. “It’s going to be treasured by generations to come.” Tule Springs is one of the nation’s newest national monuments and contains paleontological artifacts including fossils of the Columbian Mammoth, extinct horses, camels, bison, and the dire wolf. In May of this year, Congressman Hardy expressed concern with President Barack Obama’s plan to unilaterally designate Basin and Range, also located in the fourth congressional district, as a national monument. Tule Springs stands in stark contrast to the president’s plans for Basin and Range, Hardy said, as Tule Springs received tremendous support from the entire area, including local elected officials, Nellis Air Force Base, the Las Vegas Paiute tribe, tourism industry leaders, educators, scientists, conservation organizations, community groups and thousands of citizens. “Tule Springs’ national monument designation was a grassroots, widely supported effort to protect a reasonably sized piece of land,” Congressman Hardy said. “I feel strongly that the best management of our public lands comes only through methodical consideration and partnership across all levels of local, state and federal government.” Jill Destefano, president of Protectors of Tule Springs, along with the group's vice president, Sandy Croteau, and Josh Bonde, assistant professor in residence at UNLV's Department of Geoscience, conducted the tour of the Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument. “We are pleased to have Congressman Hardy visit Tule Springs and learn about the unequaled resource this area is proud to call its own. We are grateful for the enormous support we have received on the designation of Tule Springs as a national monument,” Destefano said. For more information on visiting Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument, click here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today issued the following statement following the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in the case of King v. Burwell, concerning the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare: “Patients, not the government, must continue to be our top priority as we seek to mitigate against what has largely been a damaging law. I will continue to work in favor of a solution focused on giving individuals and families greater flexibility in healthcare choices, while lowering costs that have skyrocketed under Obamacare.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today jointly chaired a hearing to examine manipulation and fraud in the reporting of the Department of Veterans Affairs Small Business Goals. Congressman Hardy, in his first hearing as chairman of the Committee on Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations, issued the following statement: “Based on what we heard today, it is evident that the VA and the Obama Administration have failed our veterans, small business owners and the American taxpayer. If the VA had followed the law, small businesses – including many veteran and service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses— would have had the opportunity to compete, which would have saved money and allowed more services to be provided to our veterans. Instead, the VA simply ignored the law.” The hearing, held in conjunction with the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, highlighted the testimony of Mr. Jan Frye, Deputy Assistant Secretary and Senior Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisition, Department of Veterans Affairs, who has come forward as a whistleblower in recent months on this issue. “I appreciate the leadership of my colleague, Congressman Mike Coffman (CO-6), as his subcommittee’s work led to today’s important proceedings to further explore the root of the problems the VA continues to experience with regard to their obligation to follow requirements in reporting small business goals,” Congressman Hardy added. For more information on this hearing, and to view the entire video, click here. VIDEO (RAW): Opening statement; Round 1 questions; Round 2 questions; Closing statement Photo caption (above): Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) questions witnesses during a June 23, 2015, joint hearing of the Committee on Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations and the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, which examined manipulation and fraud in the reporting of the Department of Veterans Affairs Small Business Goals. Photo caption (below): Mr. Jan Frye, Deputy Assistant Secretary and Senior Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisition, Department of Veterans Affairs, speaks during a June 23, 2015, joint hearing of the Committee on Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations and the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, which examined manipulation and fraud in the reporting of the Department of Veterans Affairs Small Business Goals. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
06.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. -- The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 893, the Boys Town Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, co-sponsored by Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4), which directs the minting of coins commemorating the centennial of Boys Town, a non-profit organization dedicated to improving the lives of children in need and strengthening families across the nation. Following the passage of the bill, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: “Boys Town has worked tirelessly to assist at-risk children and their families by helping parents provide a safer and more stable home for their children. Boys Town Nevada serves almost 1,600 children each year and it is thanks to organizations like these that many families are able to live better lives. I am grateful that Boys Town has continued to uphold Father Flanagan’s legacy, in the 4th Congressional District, Nevada and across the nation.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.28.2015	NORTH LAS VEGAS, Nev. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) today issued the following statement regarding the Obama Administration's announcement of federal land use plans for the Greater Sage Grouse: “These restrictive plans may be well-intended, but they are coming from the wrong direction. Leave conservation efforts to local people who know and use the land best, not Washington bureaucrats who have no idea what it’s like to live and work with our state’s natural resources below ground and the magnificent species above ground. “Nevada’s efforts work – as evidenced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s clear decision earlier this year to not list the Bi-State Sage Grouse found in limited areas of our state. “If we are to preserve the Greater Sage Grouse without curtailing local economic progress, Washington should stop telling us what to do with our land and leave it to the states.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.27.2015	BEATTY, Nev. -- Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04), on a tour of rural communities throughout the 4th Congressional District, issued the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Waters of the United States (WOTUS) finalized rule, issued today: "I am extremely disappointed with today’s announcement from the Obama Administration’s Environmental Protection Agency that the agency has finalized the 'Waters of the United States' rule under the Clean Water Act," Congressman Hardy said. "The more disturbing part to me is how they are going against the wishes of Congress, state and local leaders, and millions of American citizens who will be affected most by this rule. Even after the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan piece of legislation (H.R. 1732 – the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015) to ask for the EPA to reconsider the then-proposed rule and work with others to complete a fair alternative, this action reveals the underlying motive, which is to greatly expand federal jurisdiction over as much private property as possible. I encourage local and state leaders across Nevada to continue to raise their voice in opposition to this rule." ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today supported H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016, which passed the House, 269 to 151. The NDAA included two pieces of legislation authored by Congressman Hardy: one to protect national security-related training areas, and another to help small businesses seeking contracts with the federal government. Together, the two pieces of legislation authored by Congressman Hardy and included in the NDAA represent his strong support for the military and his keen awareness of the needs of businesses in his district. Small Business provision Regarding H.R. 1583, the Small Business Contractor's Clarification Act, Congressman Hardy said: "Small businesses need more clarity on federal government contract rules. My bill solidifies the 'non-manufacturer's rule' in order to clarify that service contracts do not have to meet the same small business requirements as manufactured goods contracts, a move which will pave the way for better opportunities for the businesses in the 4th Congressional District and all across the nation." H.R. 1583 was part of a package of Small Business Committee legislative proposals to improve the federal contracting process. Many of these provisions were successfully marked up by the Committee on Small Business on March 25, 2015. In April, House Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot, along with several other Small Business Committee Members including Congressman Carlos Curbelo (FL-26) and Congressman Hardy, testified before the House Armed Services Committee in support of these contracting reforms aimed at increasing small business participation rates. Regarding passage of the NDAA with the Small Business provisions, including the bill offered by Congressman Hardy, Chairman Chabot said that when America's small businesses are given greater opportunity to compete for federal contracts, "it improves quality, reduces costs, and ensures we have a robust industrial base supporting our military." Read more about this and other small business contracting reforms included in the NDAA here. National Security protection The second piece of legislation authored by Congressman Hardy and included in the final NDAA was an amendment to protect national security-related activities on or above land associated with a Military Operations Area, when the president expands or establishes a national monument under the authority of the Antiquities Act of 1906. Regarding this amendment to protect national security, especially in areas like those associated with the Nevada Test and Training Range, Congressman Hardy said: “In my first few months in office, I've taken the time to understand in detail how activities like those at Nellis Air Force Base and on the Nevada Test and Training Range prepare our troops to overwhelmingly prevail against any enemy, and how changes in associated land use can have direct consequences on this capability. My amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act elevates national security above politics and legacy projects, and gives our military the certainty it needs to adequately train and prepare for current and future conflicts. “This is not about disputing land ownership or the president’s authority to designate a national monument under the Antiquities Act. Rather, it is about correcting a deficiency in the Antiquities Act that could directly impact our military’s readiness. “We must protect America’s national security, and that means ensuring that our military has guaranteed access to land located beneath or associated with Military Operations Areas for essential training and readiness activities.” Read more about this national security amendment here. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – An amendment offered by Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) was approved today for adoption into the U.S. House of Representative’s version of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The amendment, which was passed by voice vote in a bipartisan package of other amendments, was supported by the House Armed Services Committee, and went personally unopposed by the Democratic floor manager as it was considered on the House floor. The amendment protects national security-related activities on or above land associated with a Military Operations Area, when the president expands or establishes a national monument under the authority of the Antiquities Act of 1906. Following the adoption of the amendment into the NDAA, Congressman Hardy released the following statement: “My amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act elevates national security above politics and legacy projects, and gives our military the certainty it needs to adequately train and prepare for current and future conflicts. “I was inspired to offer this amendment by the Obama Administration’s proposal to establish a national monument in the Basin and Range area of Nevada, directly under the airspace of the Nevada Test and Training Range. “While the president has the authority to make such a proclamation under the Antiquities Act, it seemed to escape the Administration’s notice that though the land is not withdrawn for the exclusive use of the Department of Defense, it is used on a regular basis by military ground parties. “Yet the draft proclamation only included a provision for unimpeded operations in the air above the proposed monument. No language was included to protect the vital training that occurs on the land below. This is an unacceptable oversight. “After drafting this comprehensive proclamation without a provision to protect ground operations, the Administration decided to solicit feedback from all concerned Federal agencies, including the Department of Defense. Yet no guarantee is made that any concerns raised by the Department of Defense – for example, regarding ground activities – will be fully accounted for in the final proclamation of more than 700,000 acres as a new national monument. “This is not about disputing land ownership or the president’s authority to designate a national monument under the Antiquities Act. Rather, it is about correcting a deficiency in the Antiquities Act that could directly impact our military’s readiness. “We must protect America’s national security, and that means ensuring that our military has guaranteed access to land located beneath or associated with Military Operations Areas for essential training and readiness activities.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today voted in favor of H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which prohibits abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy, allows exceptions for cases when the life of the mother is threatened, rape, or incest, and provides compassionate care for mother and child. Following the vote and passage (240 to 186) in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: "As a nation, we cannot stand by and accept the brutality of abortion, and I will continue to fight to protect unborn lives at all stages of development. This bill is another good step toward equality for our fellow human beings, regardless of their location; it falls in line with what a majority of Americans support, is supported by science that shows our little ones are capable of experiencing pain after 20 weeks, and is similar to legislation already passed in 14 states." ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today voted in favor of H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, a bipartisan bill which prohibits the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from implementing a proposed rule that defines the scope of waters protected under the jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act (CWA). Following the vote and passage (261 to 155) in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: “As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, I am pleased to support Chairman Shuster and Subcommittee Chairman Gibbs' bill to clear up confusion on how we define waters of the United States. We owe it to the owners of land all across this nation relief from needless and ambiguous rulings like the one recently made by the Army Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency, which would add new burdens to small businesses, ranchers and farmers like those in Nevada.” Background: Read more about the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure website. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
04.30.2015	"For a large firm, this new standard will impact how they do business. For a small guy, it will determine if they do business.” --Congressman Cresent Hardy WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-04) hosted industry representatives for a roundtable discussion on the impact that the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) potential new Joint Employer Standard would have on American workers and small businesses. Hardy led the discussion in his capacity as the chairman of the Small Business Subcommittee on Oversight, Investigations, and Regulation. For the last 30 years, the NLRB has determined two businesses to be a joint employer if they share “direct and immediate control over employment matters.” But just last year, the NLRB General Counsel filed a brief in a pending case urging the Board to abandon this standard for a radically different approach. “It is clear from the discussion this morning that a broader joint employer standard will have a chilling effect on small businesses,” said Chairman Hardy. “The NLRB’s actions could have devastating impacts on business-to-business relationships, which for many small firms are critical to their operation. It is already affecting decisions about whether to hire a new employee or open a new business, and if a new standard is adopted it will hit small businesses, particularly franchisees and contractors, the hardest. For a large firm, this new standard will impact how they do business. For a small guy, it will determine if they do business.” “All small businesses are under attack with this rule,” said Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot. “In typical Washington fashion, the NLRB is creating a bureaucratic solution for a problem that doesn’t exist. I commend Chairman Hardy for his leadership on this issue and for his relentless energy in representing the workers and small businesses in Nevada and throughout our country.” ### PHOTOS: Click here
04.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) and U.S. Senator Dean Heller introduced the Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act. The bicameral, bipartisan legislation jumpstarts economic development and allows for conservation efforts in Eastern Nevada. Following introduction, Hardy and Heller issued these statements: “Today, Senator Heller and I are making progress toward better stewardship of land in Nevada, and giving communities in Lincoln, Nye and White Pine Counties, as well as my hometown, Mesquite, better opportunities for economic growth,” Congressman Hardy said. “It’s good to partner with our entire Congressional Delegation in pursuing commonsense ways to make federal restrictions more compatible with local needs, while encouraging conservation of our beautiful lands in Eastern Nevada.” “The legislation Congressman Hardy and I have introduced provides Lincoln County, White Pine County, Nye County, and the City of Mesquite the flexibility for responsible long-term growth while at the same time strengthening conservation efforts in the area,” said Senator Heller. “Lands bills, like the Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act, are a necessity for the Silver State, and it is great to have support from the entire Congressional Delegation. This type of bicameral and bipartisan collaboration is a model for how public lands legislation should be handled.” Background: The Eastern Nevada Land Implementation Improvement Act is cosponsored by U.S. Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), along with U.S. Representatives Joe Heck (NV-03), Mark Amodei (NV-02), and Dina Titus (NV-01). The Lincoln County Board of Commissioners, the White Pine County Board of Commissioners, and the Mesquite City Council have endorsed their portions of this legislation. Lincoln County Section 2 amends the county’s two public lands acts (P.L. 106-298 and P.L. 108-424) to more effectively carry out their long-term conservation and land use goals. This technical correction will help prevent catastrophic wildfire, facilitate infrastructure development, improve sage grouse habitat, and expedite the development of solar energy zones. White Pine and Nye Counties Section 3 fixes errors in Congressionally established wilderness areas located in White Pine and Nye Counties. Specifically it: Releases from the Arc Dome Wilderness Area land containing a small dam that is owned and maintained by the Yamba Tribe. Releases from the High Schells Wilderness area land where a frequently used Girl Scout camp is located and adjusts the designation of a road near McCoy Creek. Releases from the Mount Moriah Wilderness Area a section that will allow access to the main road and facilities at the Big Canyon Trailhead. City of Mesquite Section 4 amends the Mesquite Lands Act of 1986 (P.L.99–548) to provide the City with greater opportunity for long-term economic development. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today issued the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, a permanent fix for the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR): “By fixing the Sustainable Growth Rate, we improve the quality and predictability of healthcare our seniors receive,” Hardy said. “For too long, patients and their doctors have been subject to an unstable reimbursement model that degrades care and burdens providers, which is why I hope today’s bipartisan vote is soon echoed in the Senate.” Read more about the Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate here. UPDATE -- April 16, 2015: The bill was passed by the Senate, and signed into law by the President. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today introduced the Intermountain West Corridor Development Act of 2015, H.R. 1612, with Congressman Paul Gosar, D.D.S. (AZ-4), to extend the future Interstate 11 (I-11) through the State of Nevada to Interstate 80 (I-80) and south toward Arizona’s southern border. Following introduction of the bill, the congressmen issued the following statements: “An expansion of I-11 will serve as a strategic boost to our economy and Nevada’s long-term viability, enabling better collaboration with a more diverse array of trade partners,” Hardy said. “As a result of this bill, Nevada communities and businesses will reap the benefits of increased tourism, commerce and transportation made possible by better connectivity across the region. “This effort is as important as anything to our economic stability and growth as a state,” Hardy added. “With an additional 32 million people expected to be added to the population by 2030, the Intermountain region, which includes Arizona and Nevada, has established itself to be the fastest growing area in the entire country,” Gosar said. “In order for western states and communities to capitalize on this promising new growth, we must have timely and efficient infrastructure. “Connecting American businesses and communities to a fully integrated international transportation system will create jobs and provide an economic boon to the West. Furthermore, the success of this powerful corridor will strengthen the invaluable relationship between Nevada and Arizona for many years to come,” Gosar added. Congressman Hardy is the Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Highways and Transit and Congressman Gosar is the co-chair of the I-11 Caucus. Background: The Intermountain West Corridor Development Act of 2015 extends the future Interstate 11 (I-11) beyond the Las Vegas – Phoenix region to connect the Mexico-U.S. shipping ports in Southern Arizona through Northern Nevada to existing interstate networks that reach the Canadian border. The full text of the bill can be found here. The MAP-21 Surface Transportation Authorization Act officially designated an Interstate route connecting Phoenix and Las Vegas – the largest metropolitan areas in the nation that are not connected via interstate. Congressmen Hardy and Gosar were joined by Representatives Dina Titus (D-NV) and Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) in introducing this bipartisan legislation. A bipartisan companion version of this bill was introduced in the Senate by Nevada Senators Heller and Reid, and Arizona Senators McCain and Flake. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today attended Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s address to a Joint Meeting of Congress. Following President Ghani’s address, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: “Today, I was honored to hear from the President of Afghanistan, Dr. Ashraf Ghani. Though his country still has room for improvement, I was impressed by the advancements they have made thus far. Removing the Taliban from power has given us a new partner in the Middle East, as well as opened the door for tremendous improvements in civil liberties in a country that desperately needed it. Today, more than 3 million girls are allowed to attend school after being denied an education under the Taliban regime, and the national average lifespan has gone from 45 to 60 years of age. “President Ghani thanked our country – both the military and taxpayers – for helping Afghans overcome so many seemingly insurmountable obstacles. He assured us he is committed to keeping the Taliban from growing and making sure his government is able to maintain these advancements without foreign aid in the future.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today introduced the Land Acquisition to cut National Debt Act, or LAND Act, which would prohibit the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture from using federal dollars to purchase land resulting in a net increase in acreage, during years in which the federal budget is not balanced. The LAND Act prohibits the Secretary of Interior from using federal dollars to purchase land resulting in a net increase in acreage under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, or the Bureau of Land Management, unless the federal budget is balanced for the year in which such land would be purchased. The Secretary of Agriculture is likewise prohibited from using federal dollars to purchase land resulting in a net increase in acreage under the National Forest System, in years without a balanced federal budget. “Simply put, this bill tells the federal government that responsibly and efficiently managing the 640 million acres of land it already controls must be a higher priority than acquiring even more private, state and tribal land,” Congressman Hardy said during a speech on the House floor today. “The federal government has bitten off more than it can chew, and it cannot be trusted to serve as a responsible steward of even more of our lands and resources,” Hardy continued. “I’m a Nevadan. The federal government controls more than 81 percent of my state, and I think I speak for most of my constituents when I say, enough is enough.” “The Departments of the Interior and Agriculture like to tout how important land acquisition is for conserving species, providing spaces for recreation, and preserving culturally significant sites. My bill would allow them to continue to use land acquisition as a tool for these purposes, but it would require them to focus their efforts on lands that truly need their oversight by turning over unnecessary land to those who are best able to manage it: the states.” “At a time when our debt continues to soar, we can ill afford irresponsible budgets like Interior’s $13 billion request.” “We need to get our fiscal house in order, and we can help that process along by passing my bill. Let’s allow state, local and tribal governments to invest in developing their lands, creating jobs and growing their economies instead of letting them fall into disrepair on the federal government’s watch.” The LAND Act: Prioritizes responsible, efficient management of lands currently under federal jurisdiction over further acquisition Emphasizes the need for states to have increasingly greater control over the lands inside their borders Asks that the federal government live within its means rather than borrowing to expand its land holdings ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) today voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security through the end of fiscal year 2015. Following passage of H.R. 240, the congressman issued the following statement: “The president’s executive overreach on immigration is an unacceptable, unconstitutional and temporary fix to something Congress should permanently resolve. While we expect the courts’ affirmation that the president has indeed overstepped his bounds, today’s vote to fund the Department of Homeland Security ensures the men and women who defend our nation don’t find their paychecks victim to a largely political stalemate.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
03.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) attended Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint meeting of Congress today. Following the prime minister’s address, Congressman Hardy issued the following statement: “Today, I was honored to hear from Prime Minister Netanyahu, whose speech was right on point, fair and direct. As one of our strongest allies in the Middle East, it is critical we maintain strong ties between our countries, especially in the face of upheaval that threatens regional peace and the stability of worldwide energy markets. I, along with many Americans, am hopeful that negotiations with Iran serve to stabilize the region and diminish the threat of nuclear conflicts. The issue at hand transcends politics, which is why I hope the administration listens to the prime minister’s concerns and evaluation of the situation, and determines to work against a nuclear-armed Iran with our ally and friend, Israel.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – El Congresista Cresent Hardy (NV-4) agregó su apoyo a un proyecto de ley dirigiendo la presentación de una medalla de oro del Congreso a las personas que participaron en “Bloody Sunday,” “Turnaround Tuesday,” o la marcha final de los derechos de voto desde Selma a Montgomery durante el mes de Marzo del año 1965, que sirvió como un catalizador para la ley de derechos electorales de 1965. "Los valientes hombres y mujeres en Selma cuyas huellas dejaron una marca indeleble en el camino a la igualdad de derechos de voto, son debidos la mayor gratitud y gran honor que podemos conferir," dijo Hardy. "Cincuenta años después, la tela de nuestra nación está más estrechamente tejida porque eran inflexibles en su demanda que todos los ciudadanos de los Estados Unidos sean libres de tener sus voces y sus votos contados." Se espera que el proyecto de ley sea aprobado por la Cámara de Representantes durante el día de hoy. ### El congresista Cresent Hardy representa el 4to Distrito del Congreso de Nevada. Sirve en el Comité de Recursos Naturales, el Comité de Transporte e Infraestructura, y el Comité de Pequeñas Empresas.
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) added his support to H.R. 431, a bill directing the presentation of a Congressional Gold Medal to the Foot Soldiers who participated in Bloody Sunday, Turnaround Tuesday, or the final Selma to Montgomery Voting Rights March during March of 1965, which served as a catalyst for the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “The brave men and women in Selma whose footprints left an indelible mark on the pathway to equal voting rights are due the highest gratitude and deepest honor we can bestow,” Hardy said. “Fifty years later, the fabric of our nation is more tightly woven because they were unyielding in their demand that all United States citizens be free to have their voices heard and their votes counted.” Update: The bill passed the House of Representatives, and was sent to the President for his signature. ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
02.02.2015	NORTH LAS VEGAS, NV – Congressman Cresent Hardy (NV-4) wrote a letter to Department of Education Secretary Arne Duncan, expressing his support for the College of Southern Nevada’s application to be eligible for HSI funding under Title III and Title V of the Higher Education Act. Upon hearing of the Department of Education’s approval, the congressman issued the following statement: “I am pleased with the College of Southern Nevada’s successful application to be an eligible institution for Title III and V programs, and look forward to supporting CSN as they seek funding to offer increased educational opportunities to the growing Hispanic community in Nevada. The future of this great state will be buoyed heavily by CSN’s increased support to traditionally under-represented students. I am encouraged to see their strong commitment to the academic success of low-income and minority students.” ### Congressman Cresent Hardy represents Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. He serves on the House Committee on Natural Resources, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the House Small Business Committee.
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Cresent Hardy was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Cresent Hardy was elected to serve as representative of Nevada’s 4th Congressional District. Representative Cresent Hardy was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
