03.11.2019	For Immediate Release March 11, 2019 Contact: Jeanette Lenoir (202) 225-4572 DNC Selects Milwaukee To Host 2020 DNC Convention Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) is thrilled to announce the Democratic National Committee (DNC) has selected Milwaukee as the city to host the 2020 Democratic Presidential Convention. Congresswoman Moore said: “It is a great honor to announce that my great City of Milwaukee was selected to lead renewed efforts to shape the future of our nation. In the words and spirit of the great Barbara Jordan, ‘this fight for the Presidency is for equality for all and privileges for none.’ Milwaukee is the perfect place for the Convention. Wisconsin was at the forefront of working Americans organizing for better wages and treatment. This selection to host the next DNC Convention is a celebration for the Midwest to renew its progressive roots and the Democrats commitment to our values, and to uplift all Americans. The good people of Wisconsin are being called to help shape the future of our nation. I’m tremendously proud of Milwaukee being selected. It’s the first time our great city will host such an important event that lays out the groundwork for our future. A future that will work to fulfill the promise of all American workers.” It will be the first time Milwaukee will host the DNC Convention, which is taking place July 13 – 16, 2020. For “Moore” News Updates Follow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore and Like Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.08.2019	Rep. Gwen Moore Statement on Passage of H.R. 1 Washington, DC – Following passage of H.R. 1, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement: “As a true believer in our democracy, I was proud to vote for H.R. 1. The legislation empowers and respects the American people by ensuring that elections are fair, transparent, and reflective of the will of voters." Wisconsin has been ground zero for voter suppression, partisan gerrymandering and other nefarious schemes to corrupt election results. As an honest broker for all Americans, I’m thrilled to cosponsor and vote for legislation that expands access to the ballot box, including redistricting reform for the entire country, ensuring complete transparency and reasonable limits in campaign finance, and demanding accountability from public officials, as well as, restoring the public’s faith in our democracy.” Another component of this bill is the release of the president and vice president’s tax returns. “We must be accountable from the top down and as your voice in Congress it is my sincere duty to work to establish a sense of check and balance, transparency and accountability from our elected officials. None of us are above the law. During these difficult times, it’s imperative to maintain a sense of honesty and dignity from all those charged with serving the people, not themselves and special interests.”
03.08.2019	CONGRESSWOMAN GWEN MOORE REPRESENTING WISCONSIN'S 4TH DISTRICT Gwen Moore Invites Constituents to Congressional Café District Listening Session in Milwaukee Saturday, March 23, 2019 Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, March 23, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will join constituents in a discussion about important federal legislative issues, events in Congress and constituent concerns. "The Congressional Café will engage even more of my constituents about legislative issues that are important to them." For more information about this event please call the Milwaukee office at 414-297-1140. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) WHAT: Congressional Café WHEN: Saturday, March 23, 2019 10:15 AM - 11:30 AM WHERE: Mitchell Street Library, 906 W. Historic Mitchell Street Milwaukee, WI 53204 Gwen Moore Invita a sus Constituyentes a un “Café Congressional” Sesiόn de Escucha en Milwaukee Sabado 23 de marzo 2019 Milwaukee, WI – El Sabado 23 de marzo, Congresista Gwen Moore (WI-4) se unirá con sus constituyentes and una platica sobre asuntos legislativos federales importantes, prόximos eventos en el Congreso y escuchará preocupaciones de sus constituyentes. “El Café Congressional será de interés para mis constituyentes en temas legislativos que son importantes para ellos.” Para más informaciόn sobre este evento, por favor de llamar a su oficina en Milwaukee al 414-297-1140. QUIEN: Congresista Gwen Moore (WI-4) QUÉ: Café Congressional CUANDO: Sabado 23 de marzo 2019 10:15 AM – 11:30 AM LUGAR: Mitchell Street Library 906 W. Historic Mitchell Street Milwaukee, WI 53204
03.08.2019	Washington, DC – During the hearing on the IRS filing season, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) raised awareness regarding the reintroduction of private debt collection, which leaves tax payers vulnerable to scams and exploitative tactics. “The National Taxpayer Advocate's office has found that the program costs more than private debt collection firms bring in, which is one of the long standing criticisms of such efforts. “This is wasteful, costly and disproportionately impacts the most vulnerable Americans,” said Rep. Moore. The Congresswoman also raised the issue of the IRS targeting taxpayers who rely on the EITC, one of the nation’s best poverty alleviation programs. This critical credit can cover nearly a third of a family’s annual income. Delaying tax returns poor families depend on creates an undue burden. "The IRS should focus its limited resources on compliance and audit efforts that target the Tax Gap and abusive tax dodge schemes." Check out the video HERE.
03.08.2019	Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4) Statement on CBC Funding Award WASHINGTON, DC – The CBC received the highest award given by The United Negro College Fund during a ceremony last night as part of the group’s 75th Anniversary celebration. The award will go toward supporting the students and programs the congressional group advocates for. UNCF, a philanthropic organization founded by Dr. Frederick Douglas Patterson, funds scholarships for black students for 37 private, historically black colleges and universities. The organization has raised nearly $5 billion for scholarships since its inception. Congresswoman Gwen Moore said, “We’re at the frontline when it comes to creating opportunities for disadvantaged minority students and programs and this generous funding allows our work to continue.”
03.06.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement regarding the new staff addition to the Washington office. “The Washington office of Congresswoman Gwen Moore is proud to announce and welcome Jeanette Lenoir as the Press Secretary. Lenoir will be responsible for communications operations, including all press inquiries, press releases and newsletters, and social media and digital outreach.” “Lenoir’s background includes working as deputy press secretary in Congress, and as an anchor, reporter, producer, and radio talk show host for several media companies. In 2012, she won a NYSBA award for Best Spot News, and was selected as YWCA Outstanding Woman of the Year in Arts & Communications in Central New York. In 2004, former Congressman Chris Bell, (TX-25) recognized her for her outstanding service to the 25th Congressional District of Texas.”
02.14.2019	Washington D.C. – Today, in response to her vote in favor of H.J. Res. 31, which funds the government through 2019, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “In my several decades in elected office, I have yet to vote for a perfect bill, and this legislation is not perfect. This funding measure is the product of negotiations and compromises with the GOP controlled Senate and the Trump Administration. However, the legislation does fund important national priorities while keeping the federal government open through 2019. “The bill protects 800,000 federal employees from the capricious and unreasonable demands of President Trump. It prohibits the hiring of additional Immigration Customs and Enforcement (ICE) agents and Removal Operations Field personnel while increasing funding for alternative detention programs, family case management programs, and hiring additional immigration judges. Furthermore, the legislation provides funds to help Central American countries address issues that are driving migrants to our borders in the first place. Finally, it denies President Trump billions in additional taxpayer money he was seeking to build his wasteful, ineffective wall. "There are many omissions that must be mitigated with future legislation. The bill does nothing to stop ICE and CBP from carrying out inhumane policies that I denounce, including family separation and its attempts to unilaterally redefine our nations asylum laws. “This fight is far from over, and I will continue to push for legislation that reflects the priorities of the vast majority of Americans, honors our rich immigrant history, and upholds the Constitution.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
02.06.2019	Washington, DC – In response to President Trump’s State of the Union Address, Congresswoman Gwen Moore introduced H.R. 968, the No Taxpayer Funding for the Wall Act. In the wake of the bill’s introduction, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “Last night, President Trump used his bully pulpit to spread lies and instill fear in the hearts of the American public by painting immigrants and asylum seekers as criminals — murderers determined to take down the law-abiding residents of the United States. We must rise above these racist lies and see his words for what they are: a manufactured crisis, designed to scare the public into submission and garner support for his wall. “My constituents don’t want a wasteful wall. They want effective border security, to feel safe in their homes, and to know their hard-earned tax dollars are used appropriately, especially during tight fiscal times. President Trump’s wall does nothing to further this mission, nor secure the border. Instead, it’s a monumental waste of money that would be better used to advance meaningful measures to feed, educate, and provide health care services to millions of Americans. “My bill, the No Taxpayer Funding for the Wall Act, will block the president from executing his reckless plan and force him to honor his pledge that Mexico will fund the wall. I call on both Democrats and Republicans to join me in my effort by supporting this commonsense legislation to protect the American public’s tax dollars. We must pass this bill to ensure that President Trump can no longer hold the American people hostage.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.29.2019	Washington, DC — Today, during the first House Committee on Ways and Means hearing of the 116th Congress, Protecting Americans with Pre-Existing Conditions, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced she is living with Small Cell Lymphoma. Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “Today, as Ways and Means Democrats gear up our fight to restore quality, affordable coverage for all Americans, I feel the time is right to announce that, for the last 10 months, I have battled Small Cell Lymphoma. This is a cancer I will live with for the rest of my life, but, because of my high-quality healthcare and insurance coverage, it is not a cancer I will die from. “Ways and Means Republicans have voted to defund, undercut, and undermine our country’s health care system. They have made it clear as day that they care more about the cost of the ACA than the value of human life. I am announcing my remission today to remind everyone on this committee that I am a living example of the lifesaving value of essential health benefits. For my children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren that is a cost worth paying. "Democrats now have the gavel and are on the offensive. We are fighting so that no American has to choose between seeking healthcare and providing for their families. With a united voice, we are moving to ensure that no parent, child, or loved one is denied the chance at a healthy and productive life.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.25.2019	Milwaukee, WI – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to reopen the federal government after pushing hundreds of thousands of Americans to breaking point during a 35-day shutdown: “After more than a month of confusion and suffering, President Trump has finally listened to the will of the people and agreed to a deal to reopen the government that is almost identical to the legislation the Senate passed on December 19. We are back where we started, and it is so clear that Trump’s reckless shutdown was completely avoidable. “For 35 days, 800,000 of our nation’s federal workers, contractors, and their families suffered as many were forced to live in their cars, ration their medicine, and struggle to put food on the table for their children. The damage President Trump has inflicted cannot be undone and should not be forgotten. “After this legislation is signed into law, I look forward to having a serious debate over a funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security that keeps our country safe and preserves sacred American values.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will vote for the ninth time to reopen the federal government and put Americans back to work. Ahead of the vote, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement urging Congressional Republicans to pass H. Res. 28 to fund the government through February 28: “Since I was sworn into the 116th Congress, I have voted eight times to reopen the government and fund critical agencies. Time and time again, Senate and House Republicans have stood in the way, holding these bills hostage to their demands for an ineffective and wasteful border wall. As of today, the Trump Shutdown has cost the US economy approximately $6 billion, far exceeding the cost of Trump’s wall. “For the 26 days that this shutdown has dragged on, I have received countless calls and letters from constituents who are struggling to make basic ends meet like paying their mortgage or rent, buying gas to get to work, and putting food on the table. The president needs to reopen the government, so we can have a serious conversation about border security when the livelihood of working American families is not on the line.” In the last month, Congresswoman Moore will have voted to open the government and fund key agencies nine times: Jan. 17 – Congresswoman Moore will vote on H. Res. 28 to fund the government through Feb. 28 as was originally introduced by Sen. Linsey Graham (R-SC). Jan. 16 – Congresswoman Moore voted to fund the government through Feb. 8 and provide assistance to agencies impacted by natural disasters. Jan. 15 – Congresswoman Moore voted to end the shutdown and fund the government through Feb. 1. Jan. 11 – Congresswoman Moore helped pass legislation to fund the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Interior. Jan. 10 – Congresswoman Moore helped pass legislation to fund the Departments of Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and other key agencies. Jan. 10 – Congresswoman Moore helped pass legislation to fund the Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration. Jan. 9 – Congresswoman Moore helped pass legislation to fund the Department of Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service. Jan. 3 – Congresswoman Moore helped pass legislation to fund the Department of Homeland Security through February. Jan. 3 – Congresswoman Moore helped pass a package of six appropriations bills, which had all previously either passed the Senate with bipartisan support. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.15.2019	Washington, DC – Today, upon voting for H. Res. 41, a House resolution which reiterates that white nationalism and white supremacy are contradictory to the values that define the people of the United States and Congress, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, I voted for H. Res. 41, because I unequivocally condemn white nationalism and white supremacy. Rep. Steve King isn’t the first or only Republican who has espoused these hateful and bigoted opinions. In recent years, this dangerous rhetoric has escalated and been amplified by the Trump Administration. “Rep. King is just a symptom. It’s clear the disease is emanating from the White House. Republicans may have condemned Rep. King's words and called on him to resign today, but they continue to support policies that align with his racist agenda. “The GOP needs to do more than spew stern words. They need to take ownership of the polemic environment they’ve helped create and reassess their sycophantic support of the discriminatory policies and hateful speech coming out of the White House.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.10.2019	Washington D.C. — On Thursday, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) joined House Democrats in passing H.R. 267, which would fund the Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to reopen essential services for homebuyers and renters and to ensure air travel and highway transportation are safe for travel. In wake of the vote, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “Milwaukee is in the midst of an affordable housing crisis. Too many of my constituents already struggle every month with rents that keep going up and paychecks that can’t keep up. When HUD’s Section 8 rental assistance program runs out, even more low-income Milwaukeeans will be at risk of eviction. President Trump has held my constituents hostage to his shortsighted demands for 20 days too long. It’s time to fully fund HUD so no American family has to live in fear of losing their home. “It is further imperative that Congress pass this bill to send Federal Aviation Administration and National Transportation Safety Board employees back to work to ensure our skies are safe to fly and our roads are safe to travel. The Departments of Transportation and Housing and Urban Development must be reopened and fully funded to ensure that the worst impacts of Trump’s shutdown do not continue to impact our communities. Rather than manufacturing fear and needless hatred at the border, federal funds must be directed to support federal agencies that take care of our communities.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) joined House Democrats in passing H.R. 264, the FY 2019 Financial Services-Treasury Department-IRS Appropriations bill, which would ensure that all Wisconsinites receive their tax refunds on time, despite President Trump’s reckless shutdown. “President Trump’s refusal to reopen the government is causing millions of American families to suffer. The longer his tantrum continues, the more people will be impacted as tax season approaches and families are unable to receive their hard-earned tax refunds. In Wisconsin alone, more than two million households receive an average tax return of about $2,500 every year. As long as Senate Republicans and the president prevent Democrats from reopening the government and fully funding the IRS, these essential funds are in jeopardy. “It is critical that the Senate follow the House’s lead and pass this legislation to re-open the Treasury Department, including the IRS; the Small Business Administration; the Federal Trade Commission; and, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The immediate enactment of this bill is crucial to guarantee that Wisconsinites receive their tax refunds in full and on time this year. I will not stand by while my constituents’ tax returns are held hostage by the president and his allies.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.09.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement upon being nominated by the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee for the esteemed Ways and Means Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I am honored to have gained the support of my colleagues to be impaneled on the Ways and Means Committee. As a Black woman who rose up out of the depths of poverty to represent the interests of the working poor, I was born for such a time. I was born to use my seat at this table of leadership to stand as a steadfast foil to President Trump and his Republican accomplices’ attempts to criminalize poverty, decimate Medicare and Medicaid, and destabilize our economy with reckless tax cuts for the wealthy. “Since my election to Congress 14 years ago, I have fought to defend the rights of Americans to have good-paying jobs and meet their basic needs like rent, healthcare, and security. Now, as a member of this prestigious committee, I will have jurisdiction over many of these programs, including tax and trade policy. I pledge to use this position of power to move forward effective legislation to provide struggling women and children with the ways and means to rise up out of poverty. Representing Wisconsin interests, I will fight for trade and taxation policies that truly champion working American families, not just massive corporations and the richest one percent. “Millions of Americans struggle every day just to put food on the table and a roof over their heads. In a country as rich as ours, this cannot stand. It has long been said that we need a moral revival. Today, I am bringing that revival to the Ways and Means Committee.” The Ways and Means Committee is the oldest committee of the United States Congress and is the primary tax-writing body in the House of Representatives. The Committee has jurisdiction over the Social Security system, Medicare, the Foster Care System, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, Unemployment Insurance, and all taxation, tariffs, and revenue-raising measures. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
12.22.2018	Urban Milwaukee – Congresswoman Washington, D.C. -- Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in response to the partial government shutdown, which began at midnight: share: f t Rep. Gwen Moore Urban Milwaukee Washington DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in response to the partial government shutdown, which began at midnight: “President Trump’s tantrums have forced the nation into political and economic chaos. His behavior and this shutdown are inexcusable. A reasonable, bipartisan compromise has already passed the Senate. For the sake of our nation and the good of the public, House Republicans and President Trump need to do their job, fund the government, and put an end to this mess.” To read online, cilck here.
12.21.2018	Washington D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI) introduced H.R. 7359, the Voter Information and Access Act (VIAA). VIAA would provide detained and incarcerated persons, who are eligible to vote, information on voting eligibility, registration, and access to absentee ballots and polling places. Upon the bill’s introduction, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “The freedom to vote and the power to have our voices heard is a fundamental tenet of our democracy. However, in jails and prisons across the country, nearly half a million individuals awaiting trial or on the precipice of release are being systematically disenfranchised and denied access to essential information about their voting rights," said Congresswoman Moore. "The Voter Information and Access Act would help right this wrong by supplying detained and incarcerated persons with the information they need to access the ballot box. At a time when the right to vote for so many Americans is under attack, it’s essential we pass this legislation and move forward in our fight to reduce recidivism and increase societal reintegration.” "The Campaing for Youth Justice supports the VIA Act, sponsored by Congresswoman Moore. We know that too many children, particularly those charged as adults, become eligible voters while pending trial. In addition, thousands return home from a period of incarceration with no history of voting. Too often, these youth come from communities that are disenfranchised and grossly over-represented in prison. The VIAA would enable them to engage in the democratic process and take a critical step to reneging positively in civic life," said Marcy Mistrett, CEO, Campaign for Youth Justice. “The VIAA will provide critical voting rights information and assistance for millions of eligible voters who currently are hindered in participating in the electoral process. Hundreds of thousands of these potential voters need assistance while jailed awaiting trial without access to voter registration or voting access. Tragically, an estimated 17 million, eligible Returning Citizens, are caught in a limbo of fear, confusion, miseducation or lack of information about their voting rights and do not participate as voters. The VIAA answers a vital need in fulfilling the quest for an inclusive and robust Democracy,” said Barbara R. Arnwine, President, Transformative Justice Coalition. ### Twitter|Facebook|Snapchat|Instagram|Website
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen decrying President Trump’s latest attack on legal immigrants and their children. The full letter is available here. The letter was submitted as a public comment on the Trump Administration’s Proposed Rule, “Inadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds”, which would expand the list of federal programs considered in the public charge determination to include non-cash assistance programs established by Congress to protect individuals and families from poverty, provide a basic living standard, and support work. “The Trump Administration’s proposed rule serves no purpose other than to terrify immigrants, refugees, and their families,” said Congresswoman Moore. “The changes contradict Congressional intent and threaten access to essential health, nutrition, and security for millions of vulnerable families. I will not stand by and allow the Trump Administration to continue these hateful scare tactics, and I am proud to join with many of my democratic colleagues pushing back against this harmful proposal.” In today’s letter, Congresswoman Moore wrote in part: The Proposed Rule would have dire consequences for immigrant families who have been part of our communities for decades, while being assured repeatedly by U.S. immigration officials that partaking in benefit programs would not hinder their eligibility to become lawful residents. The authority to institute such drastic changes in law resides solely with Congress, not the Administration. It is a contradiction of our American values to wreak havoc in the lives of millions who help weave our diverse cultural and economic framework. Congresswoman Moore, whose district, WI-04, has a large number of immigrant families, urges Secretary Nielsen to withdraw the proposed rule in its entirety. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – Last week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore’s (WI-04) bill to designate the US Post Office located at 2650 North Doctor Martin Luther King Drive in Milwaukee as the “Vel R. Phillips Post Office Building” was signed into law. Vel Phillips inspired profound activism in the City of Milwaukee. Her movement influenced the congressional fair housing debates and led to the enactment of the Fair Housing Act in 1968. As the first Black official elected to Milwaukee’s Common Council and the first Black member of the Democratic National Committee, Vel was also a prolific trailblazer. “Vel was a soldier for civil rights. She paved the road of change and lifted up our city’s dream for equality and prosperity for all. Today, I stand on her shoulders and take solace knowing that her legacy of love, service, and commitment now will be memorialized in Milwaukee,” said Congresswoman Moore. “I believe Vel would be honored to know that her representatives in Washington worked together, across aisles and chambers, to celebrate her legacy in our great city.” ### Twitter|Facebook|Snapchat|Instagram|Website
12.05.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the Wisconsin State Legislature’s passage of sweeping lame-duck legislation restricting the powers of incoming Democratic Governor Tony Evers and Attorney General Josh Kaul, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Voters sent Tony Evers and Josh Kaul to Madison with a clear mandate. Their election should have triggered a peaceful transition of power; instead, Wisconsin Republicans have disgraced the state in a midnight legislative session more befitting of a strong man dictatorship than the United States of America. “The legislators who engineered this coup retained the majority of the legislature, despite getting fewer overall votes than the Democrats, due to highly gerrymandered district lines. Their actions amount to a smash and grab hijacking of the voters' will. In my over 30 years of public service, I have never witnessed a power grab as shameful and blatant as this in Wisconsin. “This power grab is a direct threat to our state’s democracy. As Wisconsinites, we must stand strong in the face of greed and intolerance to overcome this period of darkness and begin our return to Wisconsin’s progressive roots.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.30.2018	Washington, DC – Last night, Congresswoman Moore (WI-04) introduced, H.R. 7195, the Social Security Enhancement and Protection Act, which would make key reforms to the Social Security Act to guarantee vulnerable populations have the resources they need to maintain basic living standards and avoid the grips of poverty. “It’s widely understood on both sides of the aisle that Congress needs to improve the fiscal outlook of Social Security. In order to achieve that goal, we have to make the program more effective. My bill works to that end by relying on proven anti-poverty tools to ensure that women, the elderly, and low-income populations, in Milwaukee and across the country, receive the benefits and support they need to thrive. “For much of my life, I lived in poverty. Cash assistance, food stamps, and social services afforded me the tools I needed to lift my family out of impoverishment and to construct the foundation upon which I’ve built my life. I came to Congress to make sure all Americans have that same chance, and this bill is an important part of that mission.” The Social Security Enhancement and Protection Act would update the Special Minimum Benefit to 100% of the poverty threshold, increase an individual’s benefits 20 years after becoming eligible for retirement, and reinstate the student benefit for children with disabled, diseased, or retired parents. The bill would pay for these measures by eliminating the cap on Social Security payroll contributions and gradually raising the contribution rate for employers and employees to 6.5% over six years. The bill’s text is available here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.20.2018	Washington, DC – In the wake of this year’s closure of the Mitchell Street SSA field office in Milwaukee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced H.R. 7146, the Maintain Access to Vital Social Security Services Act of 2018, which would require the Social Security Administration (SSA) to operate a sufficient number of fully staffed field offices, as well as set up a review process for their closure. “The shuttering of Social Security Field Offices, in Milwaukee and across the country, has created major complications for millions of Americans who depend on their hard-earned benefits,” said Congresswoman Moore. “My bill will help to ensure the SSA provides essential services to all communities. Requiring the SSA to operate sufficient offices, instituting a 90-day notification period before a proposed closure, and mandating at least two public hearings for those affected are commonsense proposals which will help my constituents, and all Americans, secure full access to SSA benefits they need.” "Every member of Congress should support Representative Gwen Moore's Maintaining Access to Vital Social Security Services Act," said Nancy J. Altman, Social Security Works President. "This visionary legislation would ensure that Americans have reliable and convenient access to Social Security field offices. All of us have paid for high quality service at field offices with our Social Security contributions. With 10,000 Americans turning age 65 every day, we should be opening field offices, not closing them." This bill is endorsed by Social Security Works-Washington State, Social Security Works, Economic Opportunity Institute, Gray Panthers NYC, American Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO (AFGE), and Latinos for a Secure Retirement. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.16.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced H.R. 7142, the National De-Escalation of Violence and Community Safety Training Act, which would establish a program allowing eligible entities such as churches, schools, community colleges, or state and local governments to provide de-escalation training to prevent and reduce violence in our communities. Following the introduction of her bill, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “At a time when political, racial, and socio-economic divides are at such extremes, the promotion of de-escalation techniques are more essential than ever. I am proud to lead my Democratic colleagues in introducing this groundbreaking bill to help defuse conflict, promote peace, and help prevent violence in our communities,” said Congresswoman Moore. “This kind of widespread and accessible de-escalation training could change the game when it comes to troublesome power dynamics in our society. The concept of de-escalation needs to apply to more than just police training. We’ve got to give our kids and our community members the tools necessary to maintain a safe and civil society. This bill is a great first step.” "We applaud Congresswoman Moore for her leadership and vision to promote De-Escalation of Violence Training, by introducing H.R. 7142. If enough Americans can learn the principals and methods of "De-Escalation of Violence Training" we believe citizens can help diffuse unexpected, potentially volatile situations before law enforcement can get there,” said Dr. Stephanie Myers, National Co-Chair, Black Women for Positive Change. "If enough people in schools, hospitals, recreations centers, families, and workplaces can learn how to de-escalate the anger and temper of individuals who pose a violent risk, we believe lives can be saved. We call on Members of Congress and the Senate to support Congresswoman Moore's visionary legislation. Innovative approaches are urgently needed to protect our communities from rising threats of violence." This bill is endorsed by Black Women for Positive Change and cosponsored by Reps. Andre Carson, Steve Cohen, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Marcia Fudge, Pramila Jayapal, Hank Johnson, Ro Khanna, Sheila Jackson Lee, Eleanor Holmes Norton, and Frederica S. Wilson. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.01.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 1, 2018 Contact: Libbie Wilcox, 917-536-6991 Trump Administration Approves Wisconsin’s Medicaid Work Requirement Waiver Milwaukee, WI – Today, in response to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) approval of Governor Scott Walker’s “BadgerCare Reform” project to impose work requirements on certain Medicaid recipients, Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Mark Pocan (WI-02) released the following statement with Wisconsin Tribal Nations. “The approval of this waiver by the Trump Administration will have devasting effects on low-income and vulnerable populations in Wisconsin, particularly on tribal nations who will likely be disproportionally harmed,” said Congresswoman Moore. “Imposing work requirements and monthly premiums on Wisconsinites is in direct contradiction with the proposal’s stated desire to ‘ensure that every Wisconsin resident has access to affordable health insurance to reduce the state’s uninsured rate,’ as it is certain to drastically reduce Medicaid enrollment. As elected officials, it is our duty to ensure that our state’s most vulnerable are afforded access to health care services without barriers. Governor Walker’s policy is nothing more than a shameful continuation of his war on the poor.” “The Trump Administration’s approval of Governor Walker’s plan to impose work requirements on BadgerCare recipients will only result in fewer Wisconsinites with health care,” said Congressman Pocan. “As we saw in Arkansas, where over 4,000 people receiving Medicaid lost their health coverage due to work requirements, Governor Walker’s plan puts the most vulnerable members of our community at risk of losing access to health care when they need it most. This is unacceptable.” "Sadly, economic development has passed by many in Indian County so the decision to make employment a precondition to receive health care benefits will have an immediate, negative impact on our community. The State of Wisconsin and CMS are not in a place to unilaterally change the treaty and trust relationship between Wisconsin Tribal Nations and the United States, but this waiver does just that. Tribal governments will take the State up on the opportunity to engage in consultation in hopes to improve this oversight. We hope the State and CMS will recognize the unique nature of our relationship, and we will work to further educate decision-makers on all sides," Chairman Cox (Menominee), Chairman Hill (Oneida), President Holsey (Stockbridge-Munsee), Chairman Peterson (Red Cliff), Chairman Taylor (Lac Courte Oreilles), Chairman Wiggins (Bad River), and Chairman McGeshick(Sokaogon Chippewa) said in a joint statement. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
10.31.2018	For Immediate Release October 31, 2018 Contact: Libbie Wilcox (917) 536-6991 Rep. Moore Holds Walker Accountable for FoodShare Mismanagement Milwaukee, WI – On Thursday, November 1, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join Hunger Task Force to hold Governor Scott Walker and the Wisconsin Department of Health and Human Services’ (DHS) accountable for failing to comply with federal regulations and causing seniors living in subsidized housing to lose their full monthly FoodShare benefit. This week, Congresswoman Moore wrote to Governor Walker demanding he acts immediately to correct this flawed interpretation of federal law, fix the error in senior’s benefit calculations, and guarantee that vulnerable seniors are retroactively credited for lost funds. WHAT: Press Conference to Hold Walker Accountable for Mismanaging Seniors’ FoodShare Benefits WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) Sherrie Tussler, Executive Director, Hunger Task Force WHERE: Mitchell Court, 2600 West National Avenue, 53204 WHEN: 10:30 AM CT – 11 AM CT ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
10.29.2018	Washington, DC – In response to news that the State of Wisconsin may be denying tens of thousands of the most vulnerable individuals, including seniors and those with disabilities, their full FoodShare benefits, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) wrote to Governor Scott Walker urging him to take immediate action to restore full benefits to seniors and retroactively credit those impacted. Recent administrative and court hearings have found that the Wisconsin Department of Health and Human Services (DHS) failed to comply with federal regulations by not providing seniors living in subsidized housing a proper utility credit, resulting in them receiving a much smaller monthly benefit than they were otherwise entitled to. This oversight has massive consequences for seniors on fixed incomes who depend on FoodShare to put food on the table. Food insecure seniors are at a much higher risk of diabetes, depression, high blood pressure, congestive heart failure, and more life-threatening illnesses. “Had DHS correctly followed federal laws and regulations, affected seniors and persons with disabilities would have likely seen an increased monthly food benefit and had more resources available to provide for themselves,” wrote Congresswoman Moore. “Instead, the State’s policy has improperly denied seniors and those with disabilities resources to maintain an adequate and nutritious diet, which is critically important to their health and well-being.” In the letter, Congresswoman Moore pressed Governor Walker to swiftly identify seniors who were shortchanged because of the State’s flawed interpretation of federal law, correct the error in their benefit calculations, and ensure that impacted seniors are retroactively credited for lost benefits. “Again, you have the opportunity to correct this injustice and to help put additional dollars into the food budgets of needy seniors and persons with disabilities at little cost to the State," continued Congresswoman Moore. "I urge you to seize it.” To read the full letter to Governor Walker, click here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.27.2018	Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to the mass shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I am filled with grief for the city of Pittsburgh and the entire Tree of Life congregation. As we mourn this horrific mass shooting, let us lift up the brave first responders who put themselves in harm’s way to save lives. They are true American heroes. “The hatred we have seen today has no place in this country. Our constitution guarantees us the right to worship freely and to walk among our fellow men as equals. It is long past time for our communities to lift up our shared values, eliminate false distinctions, and embrace the beauty and strength of our differences. “In the face of this anti-Semitic violence, I stand in solidarity with the Jewish community and, once again, call on Congress to act to pass commonsense, bipartisan gun control reform. It is Congress’s duty to put the lives of our constituents ahead of money and special interests. No American should have to live in fear.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.23.2018	Milwaukee, WI – On Wednesday, October 24, 2018 at 2:15 p.m. CT, Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Mark Pocan (WI-02) will roll out the fourth in a new series of state-level reports outlining in stark detail how GOP-control of Washington has undermined the health and economic security of hard-working Wisconsin families. The report comes ahead of President Trump’s trip to Mosinee, WI and will be released under embargo on Wednesday morning. The report exposes Republicans’ broken promises on the core economic issues at the heart of House Democrats’ For The People agenda: health costs and prescription drug prices; the GOP tax scam, stagnant real wages and unmet infrastructure needs. At a rally in West Bend in 2016, Trump said “On taxes, I am going to give a massive tax cut to every worker and small business in this country, bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs onto our shores – and make it very difficult for our businesses to leave.” Democrats’ report found that too many Wisconsinites are being left behind by the Trump Administration and the Republican Congress: 330,320 Wisconsin taxpayers will see NO tax benefit or will suffer a tax hike by 2019, While the wealthiest 1 percent of Wisconsin residents received a total of more than $1.5 million, and Real average hourly wages in Wisconsin have remained relatively flat, increasing just 0.5 percent from January 2017 to August 2018. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) WHAT: Press call on New ‘For The People’ Report on Impacts of GOP Agenda on Health & Economic Security of Wisconsinites WHEN: Wednesday, October 24, 2018 2:15 p.m. C.T. DIAL-IN: 800-369-2142 Participant passcode:WI REPORT *** Members of the media should RSVP to elena.kuhn@mail.house.gov *** ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.06.2018	Milwaukee, WI – In response to today’s 50 - 48 vote to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today’s vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh is a vote against women and sexual assault survivors. It’s a vote that tells young girls across the country that their voices will not and should not be heard. “The FBI investigation that took place this week was nothing more than a Trump-controlled sham designed as political cover for Republicans paying lip service to victims of sexual violence. There was no due process. There was no justice. “History will undoubtedly remember this confirmation as a blight on Washington. Throughout his hearings, Judge Kavanaugh demonstrated a lack of candor and temperament befitting of the Supreme Court. His testimony was partisan, conspiratorial, and dishonest. “President Trump selected Kavanaugh solely due to his radical belief that the president has near-monarchial power and stands above the law. The Federalist Society and Republicans selected him to tip the balance of the Supreme Court against women’s rights, civil rights, justice, and progress. I’ve heard the cries of my constituents. I’ve heard the stories of survivors who’ve traveled across the country to protest. I know that despite today’s loss, our fight is far from over. “We will not allow our country to regress. We will not be forced into silence and submission. We have seen the soul of the GOP, and we are demanding change. United, our energy will bring justice and integrity back to Washington.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.03.2018	Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced the RISE Out of Poverty Act, her signature legislation to overhaul our nation’s only cash assistance program for mothers and children. In 1996, Congress replaced Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) with Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) – a program that eliminated entitlements, imposed work requirements, and limited education and training. These barriers severely restricted the reach of cash assistance. Today, TANF continues to fail struggling families who are unable to meet basic needs. “I’ll never forget spring of 1996 when Governor Tommy Thompson decided to end welfare as we know it,” said Congresswoman Moore. “I stood on the floor with 100 amendments filibustering the bill until the early hours of the morning. Months later, when this proposal was adopted by the US Congress and signed into law by a Democratic president, I knew I would spend the rest of my career fighting to save the safety net for women and children. “43 million Americans currently live in poverty, including millions in extreme poverty. My bill would make sweeping reforms to TANF to ensure it can actually work for the populations it’s supposed to help. As a former welfare recipient who rose up out of poverty with the help of cash assistance, higher education, and food stamps, I understand how critical it is for Congress to fix this broken program. Our nation is only as strong as it's most vulnerable populations. Instead of criminalizing and demonizing the poor, we must help lift them up, so they too can escape poverty.” Key provisions of the RISE Act will: Index the block grant for both inflation and child population growth in states since 1996. Replace the current contingency fund with one based on the Emergency Contingency Fund enacted in the Recovery Act which helped to create over 260,000 jobs. Stop the clock during a recession: RISE would make the 60-month time limit inapplicable during periods of high unemployment and require states to disregard months in which the state had unemployment rates of 6.5% or higher from being counted toward the 60-month limits. Guarantee child care for TANF work-eligible recipients. Require that States adopt standards and procedures to address domestic and sexual violence among TANF recipients. Eliminate full family sanctions and lifetime sanctions and establish a Pre- and Post-Sanction Review Process requiring states to continuously work with families that are subject to sanction or have already been sanctioned. Stipulate that the number one goal of TANF is child poverty reduction. Please find a full copy of the legislation here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.28.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6014, the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act of 2018 (FVPSA), bipartisan legislation introduced by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04). In response to the passage of her bill to reauthorize the primary federal funding source to support emergency shelter and assistance for victims of domestic violence and their families, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “This week, Dr. Blasey Ford’s brave testimony helped uplift sexual assault and violence in the nation's zeitgeist. Congress must respond to this fierce energy for justice and equality for women by enacting critical legislation like FVPSA to protect victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse and to ensure that resources are available when they need help. “FVPSA is at the heart of our nation’s response to domestic violence services, ensuring that local domestic violence shelters and programs are able to keep their lights on and doors open to serve more than 1.3 million victims and their children every year. It is essential that this legislation continues to the Senate and is signed into law so that FVPSA can enable communities to stand up for victims of domestic violence.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat |Instagram
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-04), Tom Cole (OK-04), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) and Sens. Bob Casey (D-PA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Johnny Isakson (R-GA) introduced critical bipartisan and bicameral legislation to combat Sudden Unexpected Infant Death (SUID) and Sudden Unexplained Death in Childhood (SUDC). H.R. 6931, The Scarlett’s Sunshine on Sudden Unexpected Death Act would supply grants to help states, municipalities, and nonprofits to improve data collection and death scene investigations related to unexpected infant and child deaths, promote safe sleep practices, and ensure death reviews are completed for 100 percent of infant and child fatalities. Currently, there are no nationwide standards for investigating and collecting data following an infant or child death. This makes it nearly impossible to determine the causes of these deaths, and what strategies our country can implement to prevent these tragedies. “Wisconsin has the highest rate of Black infant mortality in the nation. Our babies die at rates comparable to war-torn countries like Syria,” said Rep. Moore. “This doesn’t have anything to do with good or bad parenting. But because there are no nationwide standards for investigations and data collection, parents are often left wondering what went wrong and what they could have done to prevent their baby from dying. No mother, no matter her background, should have to with live with this uncertainty, thinking it was their fault. That’s why this bipartisan and bicameral bill to fund critical data collection is a game changer. We need to know the root of the problem to solve it.” “Nothing is more tragic than the untimely death of an infant child. Unfortunately, in many of the roughly 3,500 cases each year in the United States, parents are left without knowing what caused their child to die. Our bill will not prevent all of these cases, but it will go a long way toward improving investigations, autopsies, and nationwide collection of data further enhancing our understanding of sudden unexplained infant death. With more and better data and information, we can determine causes, find new prevention strategies, and make sure that all children have a chance to survive and thrive,” said Rep. Cole. “If there’s anything Congress can do to save more babies from dying unexpectedly from SIDS, we should be relentlessly working toward that end. I’m pleased to be part of this bipartisan bill that takes important steps to improve how we are tracking and reporting these tragic infant deaths so that we can improve prevention efforts and better support children and families through outreach and education,” said Rep. Herrera Beutler. “This legislation is named “Scarlett’s Sunshine” after a little girl who was lost to Sudden Unexplained Death in Childhood,” said Sen. Casey. “I wanted to honor Scarlett’s memory and make sure that the federal government is taking all possible steps to ensure that no family will have to suffer the death of a child, without knowing why. It’s appalling that over 400 children ages 1–4 and over 3,600 infants each year are dying from these unexplained causes. I urge my colleagues to join us in this bipartisan, bicameral effort.” “No parent should experience the horrifying loss of a small child, especially under sudden, unexpected and unexplained circumstances,” said Sen. Isakson. “We should be doing everything we can to learn more about sudden infant and unexplained child death cases to help improve awareness, education and prevention of these devastating tragedies. I’m proud to introduce this legislation to ensure we are employing every resource available, including the experts at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, to combat infant mortality and protect our youngest and most innocent lives.” “Too many families across Ohio and around the country have experienced the unspeakable grief of losing a child,” said Sen. Brown. “I’m honored to join lawmakers and family advocates as we work to build on the success of the Sudden Unexpected Death Data Enhancement and Awareness Act and get experts the data they need to better understand these deaths, while also getting the families the support they deserve.” “As pediatricians, we counsel parents every day on the importance of safe sleep practices and recognize the critical that role quality data-collection plays in our understanding of how we can prevent unexpected death among infants and children. The Scarlett’s Sunshine on Sudden Unexpected Death Act will help to improve data-gathering and evidence-based interventions and offer families the support they need,” said American Academy of Pediatrics President Colleen Kraft, MD, MBA, FAAP. This bill has been endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics, Children’s Hospital Association, Cribs for Kids, First Candle, March of Dimes, Kids in Danger, SUDC Foundation, Within our Reach, and Aaron Matthew SIDS Guild of Seattle Children’s Hospital. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.27.2018	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Thursday, September 27, 2018 Contact: Libbie Wilcox (Moore) Brendien Mitchell (Adams) Nick Brown (Kuster) Tracy Manzer (Speier) Maggie Rousseau (Dingell) Congressional Survivors Demand Senate Leadership to Postpone Kavanaugh Vote Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-04), Alma S. Adams, Ph.D. (NC-12), Ann Kuster (NH-02), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Debbie Dingell (MI-12) sent a letter as survivors of domestic and/or sexual abuse to President Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell demanding that the Senate postpone scheduled confirmation votes for Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh in light of recent allegations of sexual assault. The members also condemn the remarks made by President Trump, Majority Leader McConnell, and other elected officials smearing and trivializing the experiences of victims of sexual assault and abuse. In part, the letter reads, “As victims of domestic and sexual assault, we write to express our deepest concerns regarding your actions and various statements on the serious allegations that have been raised concerning Judge Brett Kavanaugh and his possible elevation to the highest court in the country… We further request fair and impartial consideration of Dr. Ford’s testimony, proper balancing of her story with Judge Kavanaugh’s testimony, and the postponement of any votes on Kavanaugh until all allegations have been properly investigated.” Full text of the letter here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.22.2018	Milwaukee, WI - This week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) requested that the Social Security Administration (SSA) put an end to the undue hardship the Mitchell Street branch closure has caused her Southside constituents by opening an alternative SSA office in the neighborhood. Please find a copy of her statement and letter to the SSA and GSA here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.14.2018	Washington, DC – Last night, America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (S. 3021), which includes three of Congresswoman Gwen Moore’s (WI-04) provisions, passed the US House of Representatives. In response, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “As the old African proverb goes, ‘water has no enemies.’ This week, Congress honored that truth by passing this critical bipartisan bill to help improve our nation’s water resources and fix our failing water infrastructure. In the face of our hyper-partisan climate, I worked hard to have provisions included in this bill that will help achieve water justice for Milwaukeeans and communities across the country. “My constituents are all too familiar with the long-term consequences of poor water infrastructure, and there remains a long way to go before all Americans have access to clean water. However, this bill is a positive step forward. Modernizing our nation’s infrastructure will help keep our children healthy and our economy strong.” Congresswoman Moore’s provisions in America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (S. 3021) are as follows: Sec. 1214. To require a report on efforts by the Army Corps of Engineers to consult with low-income, minority, rural, and native populations in any programs, policies, and activities that may impact said populations. Sec. 1326. To deauthorize a portion of the Menominee river, as requested by the City of Milwaukee, in order to reduce costs and allow the City to execute their long-term revitalization plan for the Menomonee Valley. Sec. 2007. To promote the development and implementation of innovative water technology by state and local governments that address local water challenges, such as contamination and lead poisoning.
09.13.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore’s (WI-04) bill to designate the facility of the US Post Office located at 2650 North Doctor Martin Luther King Drive in Milwaukee as the “Vel R. Phillips Post Office Building” passed the US House of Representatives. Last night, Congresswomen Moore delivered the following remarks on the House floor in support of her bill: Congresswoman Moore. Mr. Speaker tomorrow the House is going to take up and, hopefully, pass legislation that I've introduced to honor a Wisconsin hero and one of my sheros Vel. R. Phillips. The bill would designate a post office in Milwaukee, Wisconsin in her honor. Vel was the first of so many things: the first African American and the first woman to become an Alderman in the City of Milwaukee; the first African American woman to graduate from the University of Wisconsin-Madison Law School; the first African-American judge in Milwaukee County; the first and only African American to win election statewide in Wisconsin. But her life and contributions cannot simply be summed up by merely adding up her many "firsts." Such an approach gives short shrift of her local and national impact. For you see, Mr. Speaker, she was a soldier for social justice in the national movement for desegregation in housing and the open housing movement. I first met Vel when I was 16 years old and she was the judge in an oratorical contest, that encounter has made a lifelong impact on me. Vel passed away earlier this year in her 90s but her legacy of love, service, and commitment lives on, and thank you so much, Mr. Speaker, for your indulgence. I yield by the balance of my time. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.07.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement after introducing a House companion bill to Senator Tammy Baldwin’s Water Technology Acceleration Act, which would boost federal funding for state and local governments to implement newly developed technologies for supplying and treating water. “Access to clean water is a basic human right; however, our nation’s aging water infrastructure continues to expose millions of Americans to unsafe drinking water. Experts in Wisconsin’s global water hub at the Water Council and UW-Milwaukee are hard at work creating advanced technologies that supply, treat, and minimize the contamination of drinking water. Yet, state and local governments lack the funding to implement them. “Inaction is unacceptable at a time when thousands of cities across the country, including Milwaukee, have drinking water with unsafe levels of lead. We must unlock this innovative research to solve our nation’s water challenges. The Water Technology Acceleration Act would work towards this end to ensure communities have the resources they need to test and implement new water technologies that keep our water clean and our children healthy.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
07.25.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the release of the Social Security Administration Office of the Inspector General’s (SSA OIG) report on the closure of the Mitchell Street field office on Milwaukee’s Southside, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “In the last 18 years, one out of 10 Social Security Offices has been closed, creating major complications for the millions of Americans who depend on Social Security benefits. As we have seen in Milwaukee, Social Security Administration (SSA) office closures do nothing but create hardship for seniors and other beneficiaries who may struggle to travel long distances or have medical, work, and childcare obligations that make long wait times and overcrowding prohibitive. Considering the growing scale of this problem, I am disappointed by the SSA OIG's report findings, which fail to thoroughly assess the real-world impacts on vulnerable populations and leaves critical questions unanswered. “As I continue to work to prevent the shuttering of SSA offices, I look forward to meeting with Acting Inspector General Gale Stallworth Stone to address my concerns about the SSA’s interpretations of their own closure and consolidation guidelines and to make clear my expectation that the SSA properly follow federal law, regulations, and procedures. In Congress, I am fighting to pass legislation to establish firm deadlines for public notification of any decision to eliminate or reduce services and to ensure the SSA is adequately funded. As the Baby Boom generation ages and the number of people depending on SSA services grows, it is more important than ever that the SSA has the resources it needs to serve the American public without disruption or delay.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
07.18.2018	Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, July 21st at 11am CT, Congresswoman Moore and Democratic Leader Pelosi will join Citizen Action Wisconsin and local leaders to stand in opposition to Republican attacks on Medicare, Medicaid, and the Affordable Care Act, which threaten millions of Americans whose health and wellbeing depends on quality and affordable health coverage. WHAT: Press Conference on GOP ACA, Medicaid, and Medicare Sabotage WHO: Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) Deb Langham, Interim President and CEO of IndependenceFirst Dr. Robert Kraig, Executive Director of Citizen Action Wisconsin Candice Owley, President of Wisconsin Federation of Nurses and Health Professionals Stephanie Sue Stein, League of Progressive Seniors Direct Care Provider, IndependenceFirst WHEN: Saturday, July 21, 2018 at 11am CT WHERE: IndependenceFirst of Milwaukee Main Conference Room 540 S. 1st Street Milwaukee, WI 53204 RSVP: Please send an e-mail to Libbie.Wilcox@mail.house.gov ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
07.17.2018	Washington, DC –Today, in response to the House’s passage of her bill, the Investment Adviser Regulatory Flexibility Improvement Act, as part of a bipartisan legislative package intended to reform regulations for small and local businesses, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “A strong and vibrant economy depends on modernized laws and regulations that reflect the needs of Main Street Americans. My bipartisan bill, the Investment Adviser Regulatory Flexibility Improvement Act, does just that by requiring the Security and Exchange Commission to expand its outdated definition of a ‘small business’ to ensure that small, minority-owned, and women-run investment adviser firms are subject to regulations commensurate with their scale. This legislation will provide local adviser firms the relief they need to reinvigorate community-based economic growth. “As this bill moves to the Senate, it is essential that Congress continues to work to implement regulations and reforms that put communities first by supporting small businesses and protecting their access to capital.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat |Instagram
07.16.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement upon the conclusion of President Trump’s joint press conference with Russian President Putin: “Today’s display in Helsinki was nothing less than a complete capitulation to a dictator who directed a cyber war on the United States’ sovereignty and self-determination. Any president fit to serve would have honored his oath of office to protect the homeland by confronting Putin for his crimes and identifying his continued attacks on global democracy. Instead, President Trump yielded to Putin’s will, refusing to hold him accountable for interfering in the 2016 election only days after Special Counsel Mueller indicted 12 Russian operatives for election interference. On a global stage, President Trump betrayed his presidential duty and subverted American leadership. The repercussions of his antics are sure to be felt for years to come.” ### Twitter|Facebook|Snapchat|Instagram
06.30.2018	Milwaukee, WI – Yesterday, upon the conclusion of the second leg of the Pathways Out of Poverty Listening Tour, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD), and Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity Chair, Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13) released the following statement: “Today, I was honored to have Reps. Lee and Hoyer join me on a tour of some of Milwaukee’s most innovative anti-poverty programs,” said Congresswoman Moore. "In the face of attacks by Governor Walker and President Trump, our vibrant and resilient community is fighting back. The people and ideas we encountered today will inspire our work back in Washington to implement strategies and legislation designed to serve children, their parents, and their communities.” “Today, I was proud to join Rep. Lee and Rep. Moore in Milwaukee to hear directly from those fighting poverty on the front lines,” said Whip Hoyer. “As President Trump and Congressional Republicans propose massive cuts to anti-poverty programs while cutting taxes for the wealthiest in America, we are here listening and learning about what is working and the challenges that must still be addressed so that we can go back to Washington and fight for policies that actually lift people out of poverty. I thank Rep. Lee and Rep. Moore – both champions of working people – for joining me “This trip could not be more timely or more important. In Washington, President Trump and Speaker Ryan take every opportunity to attack lifesaving programs that families rely on -- food assistance, affordable housing, and quality health care,” said Congresswoman Lee. “If they succeed, our communities will pay a heavy price. Every family deserves good-paying work, quality childcare, and healthy food. This visit to Milwaukee is an opportunity to bring proven, effective ideas back to Washington to help break the cycle of poverty.” On the Listening Tour, the Members visited Next Door Educare, a state-of-the-art school serving 166 children and providing comprehensive services to ensure students receive a quality early childhood education and that parents have the services necessary to support learning. Those services include a pediatric health and dental clinic, a fatherhood program, kindergarten classrooms, Early Head Start home-based services, birth-to-three support services, a pharmacy, GED programming, a coin laundry, a community library, and more. Members participated in a reading activity with children and visited parents and board members to discuss how early childhood interventions like Next Door Educare help expand opportunity for students and families. Later in the day, the Members toured the Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership (WRTP)/ BIG STEP, a partnership in Milwaukee that provides workforce training and coordinates with employers to ensure that individuals gain the skills and experiences that local employers need. Members visited with students who are learning machine operations as well as blueprint, math, and other essential skills. Following the tour of WRTP/BIG STEP, Members participated in a roundtable discussion with community leaders, practitioners, and stakeholders working to address poverty in Milwaukee. During the discussion, Members heard directly from individuals living in poverty about the day-to-day challenges they face and how they are struggling to make ends meet while working minimum-wage jobs. Stakeholders discussed the challenge that federal work requirements place on low-income individuals and the impossible choice parents have to make between caring for their children and making a living wage. In addition, Members discussed how Congress can help grow job opportunities and invest in programs like Next Door Educare and WRTP/BIG STEP that help ensure families can get ahead. Launched in 2013, the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity works to raise awareness of Members of Congress and the American people about the ongoing crisis of poverty, the positive human and economic impacts of effective poverty alleviation programs, and the need for a comprehensive national effort to eradicate poverty. The Task Force consults with key stakeholders to develop support for strategies to eradicate poverty and build opposition to proposed cuts to anti-poverty programs by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – In honor of National Reunification Month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced H.R. 6233, the Family Poverty is Not Child Neglect Act, to prohibit the use of federal funds to rip families apart solely based on poverty. “The condition of impoverishment should never be used as justification for tearing children from their parent's arms," said Congresswoman Moore. "The vast majority of children end up in the child welfare system not because of abuse, but because of symptoms of poverty that officials categorize as neglect. Instead of separating children from their parents, we need to strengthen Medicaid, Medicare, SNAP, and other essential programs that enable families to maintain basic living standards and stay together.” “The urgency of keeping families together is more apparent now than ever before,” said Dr. Brandon Logan, co-chair of United Family Advocates. “The bill prevents the use of federal funds to separate families based on poverty. Keeping children with their parents prevents the trauma of separation and saves state and federal governments millions of dollars in unnecessary foster care expenses.” “Studies show, and child and family advocates agree, that foster care should be used only when less intrusive means fail,” said Diane Redleaf, co-chair of United Family Advocates. “When poverty is the cause for child protection intervention, concrete services to help families are a much better approach than family separation.” H.R. 6233 was endorsed by United Family Advocates, a bipartisan, interdisciplinary coalition with the goal of reforming child welfare policy. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI) will join more than 20 other Democratic Members of Congress on Saturday, June 23, at the U.S.-Mexico border near McAllen and Brownsville, Texas. The group, including members of the Democratic Women’s Working Group will speak to children and parents that have been ripped apart by President Donald Trump’s cruel zero-tolerance policy. Who: Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI) Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX) Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (D-TX) Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL) Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) Rep. Katherine Clark (D-MA) Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA) Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) Rep. Grace Meng (D-NY) Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) Rep. Anne McLane Kuster (D-NH) Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT) Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-MI) Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-CT) Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA) Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD) Rep. Jim Himes (D-CT) Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA) Rep. Alan Lowenthal (D-CA) Rep. Mike Capuano (D-MA) Rep. Val Demings (D-FL) Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA) What: Fact-finding mission investigating the Trump administration’s cruel family separation policy. Where: Full itinerary listed below. Saturday, June 23 7:40 am Depart for McAllen Border Patrol Station from DoubleTree Suites by Hilton Hotel, 1800 S. 2nd St. McAllen, TX 78503 8:00 am Participants arrive at the McAllen Border Patrol Station, 3000 W Military Highway, McAllen, TX 78503 and 3700 West Ursula Avenue 8:30 am Participants tour both the Border Patrol Station, 3000 W Military Hwy, McAllen, TX 78503, and the Centralized Processing Center, 3700 West Ursula Avenue, McAllen, TX 78503 9:30 am Press gathering across the street from Centralized Processing Center, 3700 West Ursula Avenue, McAllen, TX, 78503 10:30 am Depart for Port Isabel ICE Detention Center 12:40 pm Arrive at Port Isabel ICE Detention Center, 27991 Buena Vista Blvd, Los Fresnos, TX 78566 2:30 pm Depart for Brownsville South Padre Island International Airport, 700 Amelia Earhart Dr, Brownsville, TX 78521 3:10 pm Arrive at Brownsville South Padre Island International Airport 3:15 pm Press gathering at Brownsville South Padre Island International Airport Members of the media will not be allowed onto the premises on the tour, per DHS. However, for those planning to gather outside the facilities, please RSVP to tracy.manzer@mail.house.gov. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.19.2018	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in commemoration of Juneteenth: "Milwaukee has a long and rich tradition of elevating the song of emancipation to echo across the nation. Our Juneteenth day of jubilee is much more than a celebration of progress, it is a living memorial of the ongoing fight for freedom from oppression. This joyous day is an essential part of historicizing and empowering our sustained struggle. "It's been 153 years since the Union Army arrived in Texas with the news that enslaved Americans would be freed from the chains of captivity, yet Black children continue to grow up in a system that devalues them. Across the United States, Black babies die at a rate twice as high as that of white babies. 1 in 9 Black children has an incarcerated parent. Only 76% of Black students graduate on time, compared with 88% of white students. Meanwhile, President Trump and his administration are deepening these divides by causing health insurance premiums to skyrocket, undoing sentencing reform, and undermining public education programs. “For the sake of our children and the future of our society, we must resist those who stand in the way of progress and fight back against regressive policies. Until all of our nation’s leaders accept the role oppression has played in erecting this country and commit to policies that liberate all Americans, these injustices will persist. Today and every day, let us honor the vitality of our people, stand united against bigotry, and continue our struggle for justice.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.18.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the Supreme Court’s decision to remand Gill v. Whitford on technical grounds, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, the Supreme Court had the opportunity to rule on the side of justice and democracy. They had the opportunity to guarantee that our representative democracy is built to work for everyone, regardless of race or political affiliation. They did not. Instead, they sidestepped a case essential to the well-being of our republic, leaving intact this cancer at the center of our politics. “For far too long, Republicans in Wisconsin have tipped the scales in their favor, standing in the way of fair and effective representation and denying Wisconsinites their right to a core American principle: ‘one person, one vote’. The voting power of communities of color has been sliced and diced as representatives have gained the power to pick and choose their own constituents. In fact, in 2012, despite Democrats winning almost 200,000 more votes, Republicans secured 60 of 99 seats in the State Assembly. It doesn't take a lawyer to know that is not how a democracy is supposed to work. “By not setting a fair standard to adjudicate and evaluate partisan gerrymandering going forward, the Supreme Court has allowed one of the biggest threats to our democracy to go unchecked. But this is not a defeat. This fight is not over. We will continue to work, in Wisconsin and across the country, to guarantee once and for all that ‘one person, one vote’ is the law of the land.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.12.2018	Washington, DC - Today, on the two year anniversary of the Pulse nightclub shooting, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI), Jim Langevin (D-R.I.), and Ted Deutch (D-FL) introduced the Keeping Gun Dealers Honest Act, legislation that would strengthen accountability measures for gun dealers who engage in illegal sales practices. "We've seen time and time again what happens when guns land in the wrong hands. This bill takes a critical step forward in preventing such tragedies by ensuring that gun dealers engaging in illegal and reckless behavior are punished under the full extent of the law," said Moore. "The time for Congress to act is long overdue. We must move quickly to pass this legislation to help keep our communities safe." "The vast majority of gun dealers follow the law, but the few engaging in reckless and illegal behavior are a major factor in the gun violence epidemic gripping our nation," said Langevin. "By specifically targeting bad actors that sell guns without background checks or falsify records, this bill will help stop guns from getting into the hands of criminals. It is absolutely critical that we do everything we can to ensure our laws are properly enforced to stem the tide of violence engulfing our communities." "Tragedy after tragedy we are told that we don't need any new gun laws, that we should just enforce the laws on the books. But in too many cases, we've seen that the laws on the books are practically unenforceable. The combination of stringent standards and depleted budgets put ATF inspectors in an impossible situation," said Deutch. "Recent reports show that many gun dealers who illegally sell weapons to people who have proven that they are not responsible gun owners routinely get a free pass-even after repeated violations." According to a comprehensive report by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, just five percent of gun dealers supply 90 percent of guns used in crime. These bad actor gun dealers engage in irresponsible and illegal behaviors, such as the falsification of records, employment of inadequate security measures, and the sale of guns to dangerous persons that they know are likely to do harm to themselves or others. By strengthening accountability measures and providing the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) with the tools it needs to enforce the law, this legislation targets the bad actors who are the source of so many guns on our streets. "Most gun dealers follow the law, but we've seen the damage that bad gun dealers can inflict upon a community when they fail to perform background checks or sell to people who shouldn't have guns, putting profits over human lives," said Avery Gardiner, Co-President of the Brady Campaign. "Simply put, these people put us all at risk. If the Attorney General isn't going to follow through on his pledge to crack down on illegal guns, then we'll need to turn to Congress to pass laws that will. This bill would accomplish exactly that, and we're proud to support this important legislation." The legislation is based on Rep. Langevin's Crackdown on Deadbeat Gun Dealers Act and includes provisions from the Gun Dealer Accountability Act, which Rep. Moore introduced last Congress. Specifically, the Keeping Gun Dealers Honest Act would: Authorize increased ATF inspections of gun dealers to ensure compliance standards are met. Strengthen penalties for falsifying gun sales records, including longer prison sentences for violators. Add new types of civil sanctions for gun dealers who violate ATF regulations. Permit ATF discretion in issuing gun licenses. Allow ATF to require dealers to conduct physical inventories if more than ten crime guns are traced back to them. U.S. Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) will be introducing companion legislation in the United States Senate. This legislation is supported by the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence united with Million Mom March. Full text of the Keeping Gun Dealers Honest Act. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.08.2018	Washington, DC – As PrideFest kicks off in Milwaukee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in celebration of LGBTQ+ Pride Month: “Each year, Milwaukeeans take to the streets to shout out the vibrant and innumerable contributions the LGBTQ+ community offers our great city and nation. As one of the first elected officials in Milwaukee to march, watching the expansion of this joyous celebration fills me with hope for the future of Milwaukee. We march in growing numbers to celebrate and protect our nation’s founding principle – that all are created equal. “In recent years, we have made tremendous progress towards ensuring this core value applies to all Americans. Under the leadership of President Obama and Democrats, our country achieved marriage equality, I helped secure domestic violence protections for LGBTQ+ survivors, and Congress repealed ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ Yet our fight for equality remains far from over. This week’s Supreme Court Masterpiece decision reaffirmed the urgent need for federal nondiscrimination protections for LGBTQ+ people. Congress must act now to pass the Equality Act, which amends civil rights law to explicitly include sexual orientation and gender identity as protected classes. Every American deserves the opportunity to earn a living, provide for their families, and be active members of their communities without fear of discrimination. “Pride is an everyday attitude that we must carry forth well beyond the month of June, especially in the face of the Trump Administration’s hateful rhetoric and indefensible attacks on LGBTQ+ Americans. We cannot allow this administration to erase our progress and force us backwards. As we continue to fight for justice and equality, let us march in solidarity with the LGBTQ+ community this month and always.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.07.2018	Washington — U.S. Representatives Gwen S. Moore (D-WI), Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Elise Stefanik (R-NY), and Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE) this week introduced a bill to reauthorize services and support for victims of domestic violence. H.R. 6014, the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act of 2018, is the primary source of federal funding to support emergency shelter and related assistance for victims of domestic violence and their families. Since it was enacted in 1984, FVPSA has addressed domestic violence through community-driven solutions and a network of programs and services dedicated to responding to domestic violence across the country. “As strong advocates for victim assistance, victims’ rights and safeguarding all Americans from domestic violence, we are proud to introduce this legislation to reauthorize these life-saving services,” Reps. Thompson, Moore, Stefanik and Blunt Rochester said. “Domestic violence has no place in American society, and this legislation is essential to ensuring we are not only standing up for victims of domestic violence, but we are also doing everything in our power to stand against it. We urge all of our colleagues to support this bill.” H.R. 6014 would reauthorize the program at current levels for Fiscal Years 2019 through 2023. FVPSA is overseen by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Family and Youth Services Bureau, which allocates FVPSA formula grants to states, territories and tribes, state domestic violence coalitions, and national and special-issue resource centers, according to HHS. “A lack of shelter funding should never jeopardize survivors in need of safety and support,” said Kim Gandy, President and CEO of the National Network to End Domestic Violence. “Passage of the bipartisan Family Violence Prevention Services Reauthorization Act (FVPSA) would ensure that 1.3 million victims and their children have access to life-saving services every year. The National Network to End Domestic Violence strongly supports this legislation. We applaud Reps. Thompson, Moore, Stefanik and Blunt Rochester for their leadership and commitment to standing with survivors.” "In 2017, The National Domestic Violence Hotline (The Hotline) and it’s program loveisrespect.org answered nearly 330,000 calls, texts, and chats from survivors of domestic violence and dating abuse who reached out for crisis intervention, safety planning and resources because of funding received through the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act,” said Katie Ray-Jones, CEO of The Hotline. "In addition to funding The Hotline, FVPSA funding allows us to collaborate with partners such as the National Women's Indigenous Resource Center (NIWRC) to create the StrongHearts Native Helpline, providing culturally appropriate support services to Native women. Without FVPSA, these critical services would not exist. The Hotline expresses its gratitude to Reps. Thompson, Moore, Stefanik, and Blunt-Rochester for their continued commitment to survivors of domestic violence." Critical support services funded under FVPSA include: - Coordinating statewide improvements within local communities, social service systems, and programming regarding the prevention and intervention of domestic violence through the leadership of State Domestic Violence Coalitions and FVPSA State Administrators. - Supporting the National Domestic Violence Hotline, which provides crisis intervention, counseling, and safety planning and can directly connect calls to a seamless referral system of more than 4,500 community programs across the U.S. The Hotline operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and is available in 170 languages. - Increasing public awareness about the prevalence of domestic violence, dating violence, and family violence. - Supporting local and community-based domestic violence programs with specialized technical assistance addressing emerging issues such as trauma-informed care, the co-occurrence of domestic violence and child maltreatment, culturally-specific domestic violence services, and effective interventions for children exposed to domestic violence. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.24.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the release of the video documenting the tasing and arrest of Milwaukee Bucks player Sterling Brown, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “The video released last night is yet another appalling blow to the public trust and integrity by those who are meant to protect and serve our communities. It is clear that Mr. Brown was not antagonistic or threatening and that the officer’s escalation of the situation placed both himself and Mr. Brown in danger. Enough is enough of this culture that tolerates violence by rogue officers and that continues to erode public confidence in our nation’s justice system. “On the heels of the $1.9 Milwaukee Police Department (MPD) “stop and frisk” settlement, the shooting of Dontre Hamilton, and this most recent incident, it is long past time for MPD to make immediate reforms. On a federal level, we must redouble our efforts to pass legislation that will work to put an end to our nation’s long history of police brutality against Black and brown Americans. In Congress, I am fighting for mandated de-escalation training in police academies across the country. The people who swear an oath to protect our communities must learn to put life first. I challenge the MPD to set the national standard for integrity, accountability, and community-oriented policing to heal the deep divides in our city.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.23.2018	Washington, DC - Today, in honor of Milwaukee Air Force Veteran Corey Adams, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced the Corey Adams Searchlight Act, which would create a nation-wide third alert – a Green Alert – to locate missing at-risk veterans. “Too many veterans put their lives on the line for this country without receiving the support and resources they need in return,” said Congresswoman Moore. “This bill, modeled after Wisconsin’s Green Alert program, takes an important step forward in ensuring our nation’s veterans receive the care and respect they so greatly deserve. It took eight days too long for Air Force Veteran Corey Adams to qualify for a missing persons alert. It’s my hope that this bill prevents tragedies of this nature from happening again. It’s Congress’s duty to protect veteran’s and their families.” “This bill is important because had the “Green Alert” been operational when Corey went missing, he may have come home alive,” said Carmen Adams, Cory Adams' sister. “We could not save my brother but it is my hope that by passing this bill and instituting a Green Alert nation-wide we can save others. As we approach Memorial Day, it is fitting that we remember my Corey by not forgetting his brothers and sisters in arms that may still be struggling with the effects of their military service.” “If a soldier goes missing in the field, his or her unit will send out a search and rescue party. When an at-risk veteran goes missing at home, it should be all of our jobs to assist with the search however we can,” said Wisconsin Senator LaTonya Johnson. “Green Alerts, like the current system of Amber and Silver Alerts, will give us, the public, the opportunity to be on the lookout and help bring our missing veterans home safely. I am proud that Wisconsin continues to lead the way to put this vital safeguard in place by being the first state to pass such a law and now with Congresswoman Moore’s leadership to take this to the federal level to prevent other tragedies.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.15.2018	Washington, DC – In response to continued protests on the border with Gaza, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “As a strong supporter of the U.S.-Israeli relationship, I am deeply concerned by the renewed tensions and tremendous loss of life along the border with Gaza in recent weeks. As a nation that prides itself on diplomacy, the U.S. should be at the forefront of efforts to end this deadly crisis. However, the Trump Administration’s reckless decision to abandon the position of previous Administrations by moving the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem without a formal two-state peace agreement serves only to further destabilize the Middle East. “The ability to peacefully advocate for change must be safeguarded as a human right and an essential element of democracy. Yesterday’s death of nearly 60 Palestinians, the vast majority of whom were engaged in nonviolent protests, is an alarming threat to that right and a damning commentary on the Trump Administration’s policies in an already volatile region. “The humanitarian crisis in Gaza does not make our ally, Israel, safer and it certainly will not be solved by force. As part of my effort to advocate for peace in the region, I have joined my colleagues calling on the Israeli Defense Forces to stop using deadly force against unarmed protesters, unless to prevent imminent loss of life. I have also condemned Hamas, a terrorist organization, that has shown time and again its disregard for innocent human life whether Palestinian or Israeli. Today, as protests continue, it is high time the Administration request all sides de-escalate tensions in Gaza, including protecting the ability of peaceful protesters to do so without fear of violence.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
05.11.2018	Milwaukee, WI – Following the designation of 36 opportunity zones in Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I am hopeful the Opportunity Zones Program, a federal community development tax incentive program designed to facilitate long-term economic growth in rural and low-income urban communities, will bring much needed stimulus to our community. Although there are well over 200 census tracks in Wisconsin’s 4th district that have great need and meet the criteria for designation, the recent allocation of 36 opportunity zones is an encouraging start. “These designations are meant to harness tax incentives to increase private investment in economically distressed communities, encouraging the flow of assets into local projects across the country. It is imperative that the subsidy's benefits land directly in my constituent’s pockets, inspiring fresh activity, rather than accruing with developers who are already investing in gentrifying areas. While there is much more work to be done to revitalize Milwaukee’s poorest neighborhoods, opportunity zones have the potential to inspire innovative investments, opening the door for good paying jobs and economic revitalization that benefit all of my constituents.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
05.10.2018	Contact: Regan Farley, rfarley@naacpnet.org Libbie Wilcox, libbie.wilcox@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – In response to today’s Senate vote to confirm Michael Brennan to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Congresswoman Gwen Moore of Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District and President and CEO of the NAACP Derrick Johnson jointly denounced the Senate’s decision to abandon its longstanding deference to home-state senators and vote on a judicial nominee from Wisconsin over the objection of Wisconsin Senator Tammy Baldwin. Yesterday, the NAACP delivered a six-page letter outlining its strong objections to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer. Congresswoman Gwen Moore stated: “Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s decision to ignore decades of precedent by disregarding Senator Baldwin’s ‘blue slip’ objection to the nomination of Milwaukee attorney Michael Brennan is yet another egregious example of Republicans undermining Senate norms in their attempts to push through radical and unqualified judges. Despite their routine use of blue slips to block President Obama’s nominees, it now seems GOP Senators are disavowing the practice to ensure the lifetime appointment of another white judge to an all-white appellate circuit. This Republican hypocrisy is sure to cast a shadow on our nation’s judicial branch – the consequences of which will be felt for years to come.” Derrick Johnson, President and CEO of the NAACP, stated: “The Senate stands at the height of hypocrisy in casting aside its longstanding practice of respecting home-state Senators’ views just to confirm more Trump judges. We know only too well how ironclad this practice was. For decades, the Senate cited the views of home-state Senators as the reason for refusing to confirm nominees of color to the federal courts. Courts remained segregated or were denied more diversity because of that deference. That this tradition is finally upended to confirm a white nominee to the all-white Seventh Circuit is not lost on us.” “The Seventh Circuit covers Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana. It has over seven million residents of color. Since losing its only judge of color to retirement last year, it has again become an all-white court - the only such circuit court in the country. This is a development none of us should tolerate.” “Michael Brennan’s confirmation to this circuit court is an insult. This is the nominee who refused to answer Senator Cory Booker’s question about whether racism exists in the criminal justice system. This is unacceptable for any nominee, but particularly one who has a background as a prosecutor and state court judge known for harshly sentencing persons of color. The thought that Mr. Brennan could hear appeals from Milwaukee and Chicago regarding race discrimination in the criminal justice system is absolutely chilling.” ### Twitter|Facebook|Snapchat|Instagram|Website
05.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) today released the following statement in response to President Trump’s announcement that he will withdraw the United States from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran: “I stand with the leaders of France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and others in condemning this ill-conceived decision to unilaterally violate and abandon the Iran nuclear agreement. The president’s actions serve only to drive a wedge between the U.S. and our European allies that are strongly unified in their work to address the substantial threat posed by a nuclear-armed Iran. “While the JCPOA was not perfect, it was one of the most stringent non-proliferation agreements ever negotiated and included tough verification requirements that led to real progress in restricting Iran's nuclear program, something that our nation had not previously achieved even with the most biting sanctions. Considering this Administration has provided no alternative and Iran continues to meet its obligations, according to reports by the International Atomic Energy Agency and our own security officials, I believe that the JCPOA remains the best option to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. “Instead of withdrawing, alienating key allies, and potentially laying the groundwork for another US war in the Middle East, the Administration should work with our allies to address Iran’s other malicious activities in the region, including fully utilizing existing sanction authorities and new sanctions I’ve supported in Congress to address its ballistic missile program and human rights abuses.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
04.26.2018	Washington, DC – In response to the inclusion of her prompt payment amendment in the House’s FAA Reauthorization Act, H.R. 4, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement. “Despite the existence of federal laws calling for their inclusion, minority and women-owned businesses continue to confront major barriers competing for and winning federally funded transportation contracts. My amendment to the FAA Reauthorization Bill, which would help ensure prompt payment to contractors, takes an important step forward in removing an obstacle affecting all businesses, especially those that have historically faced discrimination. “A 2017 Department of Transportation (DOT) Inspector General report found that half of new Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (DBE), small businesses owned by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, struggle to receive timely payments for their work. For these businesses operating with tight margins, late payments can deal a deathblow. Current DOT regulations requiring prompt payments do not do nearly enough to solve the problem. My amendment strengthens existing rules by requiring airports with DBE programs to track delayed payment complaints and report those complaints to the FAA. It further requires the FAA to take steps to improve compliance with existing federal payment rules. “The issue of delayed payments is just one of many barriers that deny qualified minority and women-owned businesses across this country a fair opportunity to compete and win work. As this moves through the legislative process, it is essential that Congress continue to work to protect these businesses from discrimination and ensure their equal treatment.” The Moore amendment was endorsed by Airport Minority Advisory Council and the Sheet Metal and Air Conditioning Contractors National Association and can be read here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
04.23.2018	On Wednesday, Reps. Moore and Veasey join Planned Parenthood Executive Vice President Dawn Laguens and local Planned Parenthood leaders to sound the alarm on the Trump Administration’s efforts to undermine essential health care programs for women. Speakers will address the ways anti-women’s-health members in Congress and the Trump-Pence administration are undermining lifesaving programs like Title X, the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, and Medicaid. share: f t For Immediate Release April 23, 2018 Contact: Libbie Wilcox (202) 495-8879 WEDNESDAY: Members of Congress and Planned Parenthood Announce Efforts to Fight Back Rep. Moore and Rep. Veasey join Planned Parenthood EVP Dawn Laguens on Planned Parenthood’s Largest Lobby Day Ever Washington, DC - On Wednesday, Reps. Moore and Veasey join Planned Parenthood Executive Vice President Dawn Laguens and local Planned Parenthood leaders to sound the alarm on the Trump Administration’s efforts to undermine essential health care programs for women. Speakers will address the ways anti-women’s-health members in Congress and the Trump-Pence administration are undermining lifesaving programs like Title X, the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, and Medicaid. More than 600 Planned Parenthood patients, supporters, and staff representing all 50 states will be advocating for Planned Parenthood patients in the nonprofit’s biggest lobby day ever. Since taking office, the Trump-Pence administration has taken blow after blow to women’s health care. With help from extreme lawmakers in Congress, they have rolled back access to affordable birth control, cut evidence-based Teen Pregnancy Prevention Programs, and tried to block patients from accessing Planned Parenthood health centers. Planned Parenthood patients and supporters know their health and rights are on the line and are mobilizing like never before. WHAT: Press conference about efforts to fight back against attacks on essential health care programs. WHO: Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI-04) Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX-33) Dawn Laguens, Executive Vice President of Planned Parenthood Federation of America Tanya Atkinson, CEO of Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin Melaney Linton, CEO of Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast Tatiana, former Planned Parenthood Teen Council Member, Seattle, WA WHEN & WHERE: Wednesday, April 25th at 3 p.m. U.S. Capitol, House Triangle Live stream here! ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
04.18.2018	Milwaukee, WI - In response to Ascension Wisconsin’s decision to halt their plan to drastically cut services at St. Joseph's Hospital in Milwaukee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement. “I am relieved to hear that Ascension Wisconsin has responded to public outcry and put their harmful plan to cut essential services at St. Joseph's Hospital on hold. St. Joseph’s is a vital safety net hospital that primarily serves Medicare and Medicaid patients and operates in an underserved Milwaukee community. Reducing services would threaten the well-being of my constituents by forcing them to travel to distant hospitals that are already struggling to meet existing demand. “Since Ascension’s announcement, I have worked tirelessly with city leaders calling on Ascension to put an end to their planned service reduction. Yesterday, I sent a letter to Ascension urging them to conduct a thorough review of the impact a reduction of services would have on my constituents. I am encouraged to learn that they have taken my concerns into consideration and suspended their plan. As Ascension determines how they will move forward, I will continue to monitor their actions closely and work to ensure that Milwaukee residents have access to the medical services they need.” The congresswoman’s letter to Ascension is available here and below. April 17, 2018 Mr. Bernie Sherry Senior Vice President Ascension Healthcare 400 W River Woods Pkwy Glendale, WI 53212-1060 Dear Mr. Sherry, I am writing to express my deep concern about Ascension’s plans to cut services at St. Joseph’s Hospital campus. I encourage Ascension to undertake a comprehensive review of the concerns I enumerate below and to delay discontinuation of services until such review is completed. St. Joseph’s Hospital primarily serves Medicare and Medicaid patients, with roughly 51 percent of the hospital’s patients covered by Medicaid, and operates in an area of Milwaukee with widespread health disparities. St. Joseph’s is also one of the busiest Emergency Department’s (E.D.) in the state. In Fiscal Year 2017, St. Joseph’s performed 2,712 surgeries, one of the services slated to be cut. It is essential that people in this community have access to a hospital that provides a full range of services, including inpatient care, which may be necessary after admittance to the E.D., surgery, etc. I have many concerns about this plan not being in the best interest of my constituents and their health. I request Ascension address the following: How will the E.D. at St. Joseph’s Hospital function if there is no access to inpatient care? What will be the protocol for transferring patients to other providers to ensure that they receive the care they need, especially when other providers are at capacity? What will be the protocol for payment of transferring patients to other facilities? Specifically, please detail the steps Ascension will take to ensure that patients are not saddled with this additional and extensive monetary burden. How did Ascension determine which services were essential and which would not continue to be offered? It is notable that the services Ascension plans to continue include some of the most profitable services, such as E.D., obstetrics, perinatal care, and primary care. The involvement of the community is a crucial element of this decision-making process, and is one that appears to be missing in Ascension’s plan. Has Ascension surveyed the community and community stakeholders as part of the process to determine which services to jettison? Ascension has stated that patients may utilize other Ascension campuses for the services it plans to cut, specifically Elmbrook or Columbia St. Mary’s. However, Elmbrook has no bus route and Columbia St. Mary’s is 5.6 miles from the St. Joseph’s campus. What steps will Ascension take to ensure that patients have access to transportation to alternate facilities? There have been reports concerning the possible discontinuation of services at Ascension’s St. Francis campus. Is Ascension considering cutting services at St. Francis Hospital next? Has Governor Scott Walker’s decision to reject federal Medicaid Expansion funding affected Ascension’s decision to terminate services? Would additional Medicaid funds have made a difference in Ascension’s financial position at St. Joseph’s Hospital? I am extremely concerned about Ascension’s proposal because of its potential negative effect on the health and well-being of my constituents. St. Joseph’s Hospital currently serves many of my most vulnerable constituents and this cut in services would force them to travel farther to use different hospitals, which are already at capacity. In an emergency, time is of the essence. There may not be time for a patient to be driven to another hospital that is farther away without suffering complications. Patients admitted to the E.D. may not be stable enough for transport to another facility for inpatient care. My constituents may delay treatment because they do not have transportation. I fear we may see patients waiting on gurneys in the hallways, as we did prior to hospitals ending ambulance diversions. I ask that you take a thorough review of the matters detailed above and delay any discontinuation of services at St. Joseph’s Hospital until a thorough review can be completed. I hope you share my desire to provide the best possible service to all patients. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress cc: Ms. Joy Tapper, Milwaukee Health Care Partnership Executive Director Mr. Eric Borgerding, Wisconsin Hospital Association President & CEO
04.16.2018	Contact: Libbie Wilcox (Moore) 202-225-4572 Hannah Smith (Dingell) 202-315-8446 Natalie McLaughlin (Costello) 202-225-4315 Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (WI-04), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Ryan Costello (PA-06) launched the Bipartisan Working Group to End Domestic Violence, a new caucus bringing together members of Congress and key stakeholders dedicated to ending domestic violence, creating innovative prevention strategies, and strengthening resources for survivors and their children. “Since coming to Congress, one of my primary passions has been freeing our communities from the terror of domestic violence,” said Congresswoman Moore. “This bipartisan working group takes a critical step forward to achieving that goal. I am hopeful that we will build innovative solutions that lift up survivors and protect future generations from domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.” “Domestic violence does not discriminate. It impacts people of every age, race, gender, socioeconomic status, sexual orientation, and yes, political persuasion,” said Congresswoman Dingell. “It’s an honor to work with my colleagues Congressman Costello and Congresswoman Moore to begin these important conversations about domestic abuse and its wide-ranging implications. Our goal today, tomorrow and the day after is to end domestic violence, and we are fortunate to have the foremost domestic violence organizations ready to share how we can accomplish that goal. This is not a Democratic or Republican priority, and it is our hope that by engaging on a regular monthly basis with experts and our colleagues we can find new ways to collaborate and move closer to communities that are free from violence and assault.” “This working group will be an important forum for sharing ideas for legislation and other efforts that can reduce domestic violence in Pennsylvania and across the country,” said Congressman Costello. “I’m proud to work with Congresswoman Dingell and Congresswoman Moore to advance solutions that can result in real change for survivors of domestic violence and their families.” Facilitated by the National Task Force to End Domestic Violence, the working group will convene each month to receive presentations from experts representing diverse domestic violence issue areas, including immigration and forced marriage, LGBTQ issues, campus sexual assault, violence against those with disabilities, and violence in tribal communities. The working group will explore the policy implications around domestic violence and ways Congress can craft legislation that supports survivors and establish prevention programs for future generations. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
04.13.2018	Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, April 14, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05) and local leaders at a community forum addressing gun violence in Milwaukee. share: f t For Immediate Release April 13, 2018 Contact: Libbie Wilcox (202) 495-8879 Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, April 14, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05) and local leaders at a community forum addressing gun violence in Milwaukee. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee district office at (414) 297-1140. WHAT: Misery in our Midst: A Forum on Gun Violence WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore U.S. Congressman Keith Ellison Carmen Pitre, President and CEO of Sojourner Family Peace Center Michelle Cloud, State Campaign Lead for Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America Kent Lovern, Chief Deputy District Attorney, Sensitive Crimes Antonia Vann, CEO and Founder Asha Family Services WHEN: Saturday, April 14 1:30pm – 3:30pm WHERE: Sojourner Family Peace Center 619 W. Walnut Street, Milwaukee, WI, 53212 ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
04.12.2018	Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement ahead of the House vote on the radical Republican-led Balanced Budget Amendment, which would ransack Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security to pay for tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. “This Republican-led Congress has been the most fiscally irresponsible in American history. Time and time again, Republicans have demonstrated absolutely no interest in fiscal discipline, instead passing nearly $2 trillion in tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations and ballooning the deficit. Now, they are using the deficit they exploded as an excuse to force cuts to programs upon which my constituents and families across the country depend. Their hypocrisy abounds. “If enacted, the Balanced Budget Amendment would require deep cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security along with a broad range of federal cuts to state health care, education, and infrastructure programs. Let’s be clear, this is a political stunt, not fiscal responsibility. Attempting to pay for tax cuts for the wealthy on the backs of vulnerable families who struggle every day to make ends meet is nothing less than immoral. “Democrats stand united in defense of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. As long as Republicans continue to attack programs designed to give all Americans access to basic living standards, we will continue to fight. It is high time Republicans in Congress follow suit and start prioritizing the needs of all Americans, not just the wealthy." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
04.11.2018	Washington, DC – Today, the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) – led by the co-chairs of the CBC Poverty Reduction Task Force, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13), and CBC Chairman Cedric L. Richmond (LA-02) – released the following statement in response to President Trump’s executive order to restrict access to healthcare, housing, food, and many other programs that help the working poor. “It’s crystal clear that President Trump, a man who comes from wealth, doesn’t understand the challenges facing the working poor. His constant effort to undermine programs that help these Americans maintain a basic standard of living does nothing more than reinforce deeply racialized myths that poor Americans are lazy and undeserving. This couldn’t be further from the truth. Millions of Americans who are beneficiaries of these programs work two or more jobs just to keep food on the table and a roof over their heads for their families. In addition, the vast majority of full-time workers live paycheck to paycheck. In fact, 70% of Americans rely on at least one means tested federal program throughout their lives. “President Trump’s plan to cut funding for healthcare, food, and housing programs in order to give tax cuts to billionaires will do nothing more than make a bad situation worse. The fact of the matter is that programs that help the working poor have been have been under constant attack for the last 30 years and, in many cases, don’t go far enough. Only one in four qualifying families with children actually receives Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF). The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) only provides $1.40 per meal. Not to mention that only one in five qualifying families actually receive housing assistance. Federal programs should do more to help the working poor who are forced to spend 70-80% of their income on rent and utilities. “At the end of the day, our constituents should be able to support their children with one full-time job. This requires increasing the minimum wage, strengthening job training programs, and creating good-paying jobs. Ultimately, we need to give families the tools they need to rise out of poverty, not undercut programs that keep them afloat.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
04.11.2018	Milwaukee, WI – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan announced he would not be seeking re-election to the US House of Representatives. “Speaker Ryan and I have worked together for many years. We served together on the Budget Committee for nearly a decade and shared countless flights to and from Wisconsin. As he considers the legacy he will leave in Congress, I hope he finds the courage to put the interests of the American public first. “I wish him and his family the best of luck as he embarks on the next chapter of his career.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – To mark the eighth anniversary of the signing of the Affordable Care Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) took to the House floor to discuss the law’s impact nationwide and in Wisconsin. Below are Congresswoman Moore’s remarks: Good morning Mr. Speaker, as you recall, eight years ago this week, the Affordable Care Act became law. And since then, we’ve seen a historic increase in health coverage with millions of people gaining access to better, quality healthcare. Under the ACA, we saw the non-elderly uninsured rate cut almost in half, from 18 to 9.4 percent. Individuals, previously denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions, saw life changing improvements in benefits and coverage. And seniors, who are finally able to spend less on Medicare coverage and prescription drugs, had a chance at a secure and peaceful retirement. In my state alone, Wisconsin, 224,000 people became covered by ACA exchanges. From 2013 to 2016, the number of uninsured individuals declined by a whopping 42 percent. But we all know, Mr. Speaker, that hardworking Americans were taken advantage of this less expensive superior health care coverage, while, at the same time, the GOP embarked on their all-out war against the ACA. I mean they took no prisoners, hell-bent on sabotaging, butchering, and repealing this law at the expense of our nation’s most vulnerable. I mean let’s get down to the nitty gritty depths of this depravity. How do you think, for example, Mr. Speaker, that the GOP, this Congress, is going pay for the $1.8 trillion dollar deficit hold created by these tax cuts for the richest Americans and for corporations? Mr. Speaker, you well know the answer. What we’re going to do is plunder Medicare and Medicaid; we’re going build public sentiment for these actions by demonizing the poor and targeting people who already have limited access to jobs and healthcare. Oh c’mon now, we all know, Mr. Speaker, that you have been dreaming about slashing Medicaid ever since you were drinking at college keg parties—you said so yourself, Mr. Speaker. Well now, with the help of our president, you’re acting on your dream, your dream is coming true. We’ve already seen an influx of states; including our own state of Wisconsin, submit work requirement waivers. And this administration has already approved three of them, and there are sure to be more. These attacks are unprecedented. Never has any administration gone this far to kick needy Americans off the only healthcare they have. Our own state’s governor, Scott Walker, is spearheading one of the most restrictive welfare reform proposals in the nation. He wants harsh working requirements, drug testing restrictions, and other barriers to our state’s most at-risk families to access social services. These folks that are being targeted are already struggling to find work, and they’re marginally connected to the workforce—how does throwing them off health care help? I say we need to uphold the ACA. Thank you for your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, and I yield back. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.22.2018	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement after the passage of the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2018 in the U.S. House of Representatives: “After two government shutdowns, last minute scrambling, and total disregard for regular order, Republicans have jammed through a $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill that is months overdue. In the face of President Trump’s irresponsible budget proposal, Democrats stood strong, demanding the inclusion of essential provisions to support American families. These efforts secured critical funding for infrastructure, health care, education, lead poisoning prevention, foreign election interference, and the opioid epidemic. While these inclusions are no small feat, this bill represents a missed opportunity to address critical priorities, such as the ACA and DACA, while allocating tens of billions in additional funding for defense that the Pentagon will struggle to spend wisely in the coming months. “With legislative options for addressing these critical issues rapidly dwindling, today, I followed through on my word and voted NO. I cannot, in good conscience, vote for a bill that fails to respond to GOP attempts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act, threatening millions of Americans whose health and well-being depends on quality and affordable health coverage. Nor, can I vote for a bill that forsakes young DREAMers, forcing them to live in fear of deportation. I have pledged to strengthen and protect the Affordable Care Act, and I have committed to never abandon DREAMers in their fight. These are promises I am not willing to break. “All in all, this bill marks yet another failure of Republican integrity. While Democrats have fought tirelessly to remove hundreds of poison-pill provisions, Republicans have waffled, broken promises, and left low and middle-income families behind. You can bet Republican leadership’s inability to follow through on their word will not go unnoticed. It’s high time Republicans learn from their mistakes and stand up for all Americans.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.22.2018	Washington, DC – Today, after language they offered instructing the Social Security Administration (SSA) to halt any further actions until the SSA Inspector General (IG) concludes ongoing reviews of the SSA’s field office closures was included in the 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Senator Tammy Baldwin released the following statement: “As part of our continuing effort to put our constituents first, we fought hard to include this language in the omnibus. Given that this was the quickest means by which to oppose this ill-advised closure of the field office on the Southside of Milwaukee, this is a matter of critical importance to those who depend on the services available at this location.” said Congresswoman Moore. “I strongly urge the SSA to heed the clear and unmistakable sense of congress on this matter and not close the Mitchell Street Office while the IG investigation is underway.” “Thousands of Milwaukee residents visit the SSA’s Southside office each month and they should have in-person social security services in their neighborhood,” said Senator Baldwin, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “I have been working with Congresswoman Moore and other Milwaukee elected officials to urge the SSA to work with us on a solution to ensure that residents of Milwaukee’s Southside, which is home to the state’s largest Latino community, continue to have direct and immediate access to these critical services. This next step makes clear that SSA should not make a final decision about the Mitchell Street Office until the IG can complete its review.” The language is included below and available here (DIV H, 74): Field Office Closures: There is significant concern about decisions to close field offices that may not be in accordance with law, regulations, and SSA procedures. These critical decisions must comply with Federal law, regulations, and procedures to account for the impact such actions will have on the community. The agreement notes that SSA's Inspector General (IG) is reviewing decisions to close field offices, including whether SSA followed internal procedures in proposing consolidation, notifying the public, and considering feedback from public input. While the IG review is ongoing, the Acting Commissioner should not make any final decisions related to field office locations under review. Further, the agreement encourages SSA to carefully consider and fully implement any IG recommendations that may result from such review. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.09.2018	Washington, DC – This week, during the comment period for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) reevaluation of its Lead and Copper Rule (LCR), Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) encouraged Administrator Scott Pruitt to overhaul this regulation to require full replacement of all lead service lines nationwide. The congresswomen are also requesting the rule be updated rule to enforce fair and unbiased testing methods that cannot be circumvented to better protect the health of all Americans. Although lead pipes were banned 30 years ago, there are still an estimated 3.3 to 10 million still in service today. “It is outrageous that in 2015, over 5300 communities nationwide were in violation of some aspect of existing LCR regulations. Even in places that comply with the lead standard such as Milwaukee, you can still have homes that test at exceptionally high lead levels. We need a stronger and more effective rule to help protect our communities.” said Congresswoman Moore. “Considering the health and safety of our children is on the line, it should not be a matter of debate that lead service laterals be replaced.” “The citizens of Flint, Michigan, became the poster children of what is actually a nation-wide crisis, and according to the current LCR, they weren’t even in violation of the current rule,” Moore and Slaughter wrote. “Federal investment in water infrastructure is needed to truly address this burgeoning problem. Unfortunately, the severe cuts to EPA’s budget, called for in the President’s Budget Request for both FY2018 and FY2019, will only exacerbate the problem. These budget requests not only ignore critical infrastructure needs, but will likely adversely affect monitoring and staffing as well. Water is a human necessity. Access to safe, clean drinking water should not be defined by the zip code a child grows up in.” Lead is a highly toxic metal that when absorbed by the skin, inhaled, or swallowed can cause behavioral and cognitive problems, damage to vital organs, and mental and physical development delays. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) states that there are approximately half a million U.S. children ages 1-5 with blood lead levels above 5 micrograms per deciliter, the reference level at which CDC recommends public health actions be initiated, however no safe blood lead level in children has been identified. Because lead exposure often occurs with no obvious symptoms, it frequently goes unrecognized. Congresswomen Slaughter and Moore’s letter is included below and available here: The Honorable Scott Pruitt Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency William Jefferson Clinton Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator Pruitt; We welcome the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s reevaluation of the current Lead and Copper Rule (LCR) that is more than 25 years old. With more than 18 million Americans being served by water systems in violation of the current LCR and more than 5,300 communities with unsafe drinking water, we request the LCR be overhauled to require full replacement of all lead service lines and to enforce fair and unbiased testing methods that cannot be creatively circumvented. Childhood lead exposure can have devastating long-term consequences. The current “acceptable” level of lead exposure is two micrograms of lead per deciliter, and anything over five micrograms is considered “unacceptable,” but even small amounts of lead can cause serious health problems. The impact of lead poisoning ranges from reductions in cognitive function, developmental delays, behavior modification, learning disabilities, seizures, comas, and even death. Furthermore, as we’ve seen across the nation, lead poisoning continues to disproportionately impact low-income areas and communities of color, contributing to racial, health, and economic disparities across the country. Hundreds of thousands of children aged one to five years old in the U.S. have blood lead levels above five micrograms per deciliter, 150 percent above acceptable levels. Water consumption is estimated to contribute 10-20 percent of a child’s total lead intake. For formula-fed infants, it is estimated to be 40- 60 percent of a child’s lead exposure. The effects of lead poisoning on children are especially harmful, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have determined that there is no “safe” level of lead for a child. The annual costs of lead poisoning are over $50 billion, and these costs are especially regrettable since lead poisoning is entirely preventable. Across the country, local health departments are grappling with lead exposure in young children, but lack adequate resources to address the issue. In the last year, there have been reports from New York City to the Hawaiian Islands and from Waco to Chicago about local communities dealing with elevated lead levels in children. Nationwide, more than 5,300 water systems violate the existing LCR, with several major cities including Philadelphia, Chicago, Milwaukee, Baltimore and Boston reporting water systems with lead concentrations well above the federal limit. Appallingly, testing of school water systems has led to many water fountains being deemed “off limits” and some 30 schools in Newark, New Jersey, have had to turn off their taps entirely. The citizens of Flint, Michigan, became the poster children of what is actually a nation-wide crisis, and according to the current LCR, they weren’t even in violation of the current rule. Many lead violations across the country have long-been covered up by intentional use of monitoring techniques that avoid detecting lead problems. The EPA has allowed these techniques to continue without consequence. EPA is not alone in culpability, state and local agencies that report to the EPA also have blame for failure to properly inspect water systems or to properly document violations, but the EPA must realize that each time they have turned a blind eye to lead violations; they have put millions of children at risk. We must implement strict testing procedures and discourage creative testing strategies that allow failing systems to persist. Additionally, any changes to the rule must be accompanied by stronger EPA enforcement to ensure compliance with these critical federal protections. Communities will not realize the full benefit of changes to the LCR if they are not being properly implemented by local and state authorities. The EPA cannot know about how these changes are being implemented without a strong and effective monitoring and enforcement regime. Crumbling infrastructure contributes to many of the lead and copper violations across the nation. A 2016 report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) , illustrates the extent of the water infrastructure problem. In the older industrial cities, deemed “legacy cities” by GAO, there are declining populations, as well as, high poverty and unemployment rates. They also have crumbling water infrastructure that EPA estimates will take $655 billion over the next two decades to maintain, upgrade, or replace. Individual states and local municipalities cannot be expected to carry the burden of these costs alone. Federal investment in water infrastructure is needed to truly address this burgeoning problem. Unfortunately, the severe cuts to EPA’s budget, called for in the President’s Budget Request for both FY2018 and FY2019, will only exacerbate the problem. These budget requests not only ignore critical infrastructure needs, but will likely adversely affect monitoring and staffing as well. Water is a human necessity. Access to safe, clean drinking water should not be defined by the zip code a child grows up in. We welcome EPA’s effort to revise and improve this outdated rule to ensure our children grow up healthy and safe. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress Louise M. Slaughter Member of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram Updated: 3/16/18
03.09.2018	Milwaukee, WI - In response to the announcement that the Social Security Administration's Office of the Inspector General will, as requested, be opening an investigation into the circumstances and procedures leading up to the planned closure of the Mitchell St. SSA Field Office on Milwaukee’s Southside, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin, released the following statement: “Violating congressionally mandated closure and consolidation policies at the expense of an already underserved community is inexcusable,” said Congresswoman Moore. “I am encouraged that the Inspector General will be investigating how the decision was made to close the Mitchell St. Field Office and its impact on my constituents. As the investigation proceeds, it is imperative that my Southside constituents have uninterrupted access to the SSA services to which they are entitled.” “I’m pleased that the Inspector General has agreed to launch a review of the Social Security Administration’s decision to shut down the Mitchell Street office,” said Senator Baldwin. “Thousands of Milwaukee residents visit this office each month and they should have in-person services in their neighborhood. I have been working with Congresswoman Moore, Mayor Barrett, Alderman Jose Perez and other Milwaukee elected officials to urge the SSA to work with us on a solution, and I am frustrated that they have ignored the community’s concerns about this office closure.” The Inspector General’s investigation announcement can be found here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.06.2018	Milwaukee, WI – In response to the Social Security Administration's (SSA) ill-advised decision to close the only SSA field office on Milwaukee’s Southside, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) has requested the SSA Office of the Inspector General (OIG) open an investigation into the legality of the closure. “It is abundantly clear that the SSA has violated congressionally mandated procedures for closing and consolidating field offices. They not only have failed to provide adequate public notice, but they have also attempted to sidestep requirements by erroneously citing health and safety concerns as their reason for the Mitchell St. Field Office closure. “In moving forward with their decision to close the only SSA office on Milwaukee’s Southside, the SSA has demonstrated complete disregard for the expressed concerns of practically every level of government in Milwaukee and Wisconsin. Eliminating the only office that provides essential Spanish language SSA services and resources to Wisconsin’s largest Hispanic population is an unacceptable course of action that further disenfranchises an already underserved Milwaukee community. “In response, I have requested the OIG investigate these grave concerns and instruct the SSA to cease any and all efforts to continue with the planned closure of the Mitchell St. Field Office, upon which the Southside of Milwaukee depends.” Congresswoman Moore’s letter is included below and available here: Dear Acting Inspector General Stallworth Stone, I am writing regarding the anticipated closing of the “Mitchell St.” Social Security Administration (SSA) Field Office at 1710 S. 7th St. Ste. 200, Milwaukee, WI 53204. My office was first notified that the Mitchell St. Field Office would be closing on January 9, 2018. It was explained to my staff that the current office location had numerous health and safety concerns which necessitated closing the office. I have been reassured that funding is not the dominant reason for closing this office and that the SSA remains committed to serving the predominantly Hispanic population on the near Southside of Milwaukee. As noted in SSA policies and procedures for closing and consolidating field offices, “At least 180 days prior to the proposed consolidation date, we will notify the public about any field office consolidation proposal and include a 30 day comment period.” As stated above my office was first notified on January 9, 2018, less than two months prior to the anticipated consolidation. Based on information received from SSA and the General Services Administration (GSA), SSA began the process of looking for an alternative site in late 2015; over two years ago. Per the above requirements, SSA had both the ability and the opportunity to notify my office and the public at large of its anticipated actions. Instead, it chose to bypass its own procedures by providing my constituents and me with less than 60 days’ notice of a completed decision. According to SSA and GSA, at the Mitchell St. Office, the SSA had the option to lease its existing space through 2022. However, SSA has already exercised its option to terminate the lease with 120 days notice. These actions violate the intent of Congress by ignoring the mandate to allow for public comment and to provide notice prior to a final decision. Additionally, as noted in SSA office closing and consolidation procedures, “There are times when we have to close an office for health and safety reasons, renovations or space issues, E.g. natural disaster, building fire, eviction based on bankruptcy of building owner, etc. SSA will not obtain public input for those situations.” Alderman Perez and City of Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett have reviewed data both on local crime as well as complaints about the building. None of the data reviewed by the City of Milwaukee points to problems that impact health and safety to an extent that would allow SSA to bypass the intent of Congress to provide notice and opportunity for public input. Every other SSA office location in The City of Milwaukee had more police calls than the Mitchell Street Field Office. The City of Milwaukee has no record of the extensive list of accessibility complaints referenced by SSA. The City of Milwaukee routinely works with private building owners to correct these types of deficiencies, my office can attest to their effectiveness in this regard. Further, all the examples listed as cause for exemption point to serious events which negated the continued viability of the space for the intended purpose of the SSA. The health and safety concerns as discussed by SSA do not rise to a level sufficient to bypass Congressional intent. The Hispanic community on Milwaukee’s Southside is one of the fastest growing and most economically challenged communities in Milwaukee. This closure not only leaves the Southside without a SSA office, but also disenfranchises the largest Hispanic Community in the State of Wisconsin. It is clear to me that the process as prescribed by SSA’s own requirements was subverted and Congressional intent was ignored. I am requesting an investigation by the Office of Inspector General to determine if/what missteps were made by SSA during this process. If missteps were made, I am inquiring what steps should be taken both to mitigate the opportunity for future error and to mitigate any effects on Wisconsin’s largest Hispanic community, the near Southside of Milwaukee and the Southshore Suburbs. I am also requesting that while OIG investigates these concerns, the SSA cease any and all efforts to complete the anticipated consolidation of the Mitchell St. Office. I look forward to working together to ensure that SSA is fully committed to serving the constituents of Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.01.2018	Washington, DC – This week, in response to growing lead pollution crises across the country, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Louise Slaughter (NY-25) sent a letter to the House Committee on Appropriations requesting full funding for efforts to prevent lead poisoning and promote healthy housing in the FY2018 Omnibus. Their request includes $35 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Childhood lead Poisoning Prevention program and $176 million in total funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes. “Despite the national attention Flint, Michigan, brought to the lead poisoning crisis, too many U.S. cities, including Milwaukee, are still struggling to reduce lead exposure rates,” said Congresswoman Moore. “The seriousness of this crisis cannot be ignored. When it comes to young children, there is no safe blood lead level. We must act now to ensure that the federal government, including the CDC and HUD, is doing its part to protect the health of our children.” “Lead poisoning remains an epidemic today. Hundreds of thousands of children nationwide have dangerously high lead levels in their blood, a toxic metal that robs brains of gray matter in the regions that enable people to pay attention, regulate emotions, and control impulses. These children will likely suffer from neurodevelopmental damage that follows them for the rest of their lives. In Monroe County, there are schools with elevated lead levels in water sources, homes that still have lead paint, and century-old water pipes under our feet in desperate need of replacement. The Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention play an essential role in combating lead contamination. It is vital that Congress fully fund these programs,” said Congresswoman Slaughter. Congresswoman Moore and Slaughter’s letter is included below and available here: Ranking Member Price, Chairman Cole, and Ranking Member DeLauro: As negotiations proceed on funding for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018, we respectfully request full funding for efforts to prevent lead poisoning and promote healthy housing, including $35 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention program, and $176 million in total funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes. The HUD funding includes $30 million for the Healthy Homes program and $5 million for Lead Technical Studies Grant Program, which addresses additional home health hazards. Hundreds of thousands of children aged one to five years old in the U.S. have blood lead levels above 5 micrograms per deciliter, 150 percent above acceptable levels. Across the country, local health departments are grappling with lead exposure in young children and inadequate resources to address the issue. In the last year, there have been reports from New York City to the Hawaiian Islands and from Waco to Chicago about local communities dealing with elevated lead levels in children. In New York City, families have been placed in homes known to contain toxic lead paint, after untrained and uncertified workers performed lead abatement. In Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the Health Department released a report that children with elevated lead levels had been returned to their homes without testing the home for lead toxicity. Unfortunately, paint is not the only source of lead exposure across the country. Nationwide, more than 5,300 water systems violate existing lead regulations, exposing 18 million Americans to unsafe levels of lead and copper. Several major cities, including Philadelphia, Chicago, Milwaukee, Baltimore and Boston have water systems that have lead concentrations well above the federal limit. Appallingly, testing of school water systems has led to many water fountains being deemed “off limits” and some 30 schools in Newark, New Jersey, had to turn off their taps entirely. We must adequately invest in national lead poisoning prevention programs. The current “acceptable” level of lead exposure is 2 micrograms of lead per deciliter, and anything over 5 micrograms is considered “unacceptable,” but even small amounts of lead can cause serious health problems. The impact of lead poisoning ranges from reductions in cognitive function, developmental delays, behavior modification, learning disabilities, seizures, comas, and even death. Furthermore, as we’ve seen across the nation, lead poisoning continues to disproportionately impact low-income areas and communities of color, contributing to racial, health, and economic disparities across the country. The effects of lead poisoning on children are especially harmful, and the CDC has determined that there is no “safe” level of lead for a child. The annual costs of lead poisoning are over $50 billion, and these costs are especially regrettable since lead poisoning is entirely preventable. Providing the CDC’s Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention program with $35 million in FY 2018 will allow lead poisoning surveillance to be conducted nationally. Unfortunately, current surveillance is limited to 32 states and the District of Columbia due to past funding cuts. No other agency or organization in the country collects this information, which is used to identify high blood lead level outbreaks quickly and develop rapid responses. Additionally, the funding will allow the CDC to help communities implement strategies to prevent lead poisoning so that abatement and other costs are never incurred. The CDC’s current efforts prevent approximately 100,000 children from being poisoned by lead each year. Properly funding this program will protect more children and expand the progress made in lead poisoning prevention. Furthermore, returning the name of this program to “Healthy Homes and Lead Poisoning Prevention” will allow for a more holistic approach when conducting home assessments. Other hazards in the home, such as radon, carbon monoxide poisoning, and pests, can cause injury and disease. Allowing for home assessments to inspect, collect data, and perform interventions on a broad array of home health hazards in a single visit makes practical sense and is more cost efficient. Providing HUD’s Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes with $176 million in FY 2018 is critical to its continued success. Since 1993, this office has pursued several strategies, which have together contributed to a 70 percent reduction in childhood lead poisoning cases. This office has successfully ensured 190,000 additional units are lead-safe, and addressed health conditions in over 20,000 substandard housing units. HUD estimates that the number of children under age five with blood lead levels above five micrograms per deciliter in 2010 would have included an additional 265,000 children if not for HUD’s actions to control hazards in these housing units. HUD’s Lead Technical Studies Grant Program has also helped achieve major breakthroughs such as identifying improved methods of hazard identification and control. A $10 million appropriation will continue increasing the already high return on investment provided by this HUD office. Properly funding HUD’s programs is a cost-effective way to keep children healthy and save an estimated $84 billion in lead poisoning-related medical, educational and legal costs. Both HUD and the CDC play critical roles in preventing, identifying, and responding to lead contamination in communities across the country. These efforts are critical to ensuring our children grow up healthy and safe. Thank you for your continued support of lead poisoning prevention and healthy housing. We greatly appreciate your leadership and consideration of these requests. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress Louise M. Slaughter Member of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.21.2018	Milwaukee, WI – Today, following the announcement of the planned closure of the Social Security Administration (SSA) Mitchell Street Field Office in Milwaukee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore and Senator Tammy Baldwin sent a letter calling on SSA Regional Commissioner Phyllis Smith to urgently identify an alternative Southside location so that all residents in Milwaukee have direct access to in-person SSA services. “It is imperative that the SSA maintain a Southside field office that provides essential resources and services to Wisconsin’s largest Hispanic population and surrounding South Shore communities,” said Congresswoman Moore. “Failure to do so would place an undue burden on my constituents and exacerbate wait times at SSA field offices across the city.” “It is essential that all Wisconsinites have direct access to the services and benefits provided by the Social Security Administration,” said Senator Baldwin. “With the planned closing of the Mitchell Street Field Office, I am urging SSA to immediately find a new location and ensure that the residents of Milwaukee’s Southside continue to have access to in-person SSA services.” Upon learning that the SSA intended to close the Mitchell Street Field Office effective March 22, 2018, Congresswoman Moore sent formal letters to the SSA and U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) requesting they work with the City of Milwaukee to find a location convenient to her Southside constituents and guarantee uninterrupted services. In January, following the announcement that the Mitchell Street Field Office would close, Senator Baldwin sent a letter urging SSA to postpone the move until key stakeholders have had an opportunity to understand and address the concerns facing community members utilizing these critical services. Congresswoman Moore and Senator Baldwin’s letter to SSA Regional Commissioner Phyllis Smith is included below and available here. Dear Commissioner Smith: We join together today to express our ongoing concern over the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) planned closing of the Mitchell Street Field Office in Milwaukee. We continue to believe it is essential that residents of Milwaukee’s Southside, which is home to the largest Latino community in the state, continue to have access to in-person services in their neighborhood if SSA proceeds with its plan to close the Mitchell Street location. An average of 2,200 residents visit the Mitchell Street Field Office in person each month. While we understand that SSA intends to serve those 2,200 visitors per month via other existing Milwaukee Field Office locations, we question the viability of that plan given the transportation limitations and language barriers that many of these residents face. Our concern is shared by the community. There has been an outpouring of concern by local stakeholders in response to SSA’s announced plan to close the Mitchell Street Office. With that concern has come a strongly expressed desire to find an alternative Southside location. From your responses, we understand that the current Mitchell Street Office has safety and accessibility issues that have prompted the move and SSA has been working with GSA to find an alternative space that meets SSA’s requirements. With Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett’s encouragement, we ask that you formally review the former Forest Home Library located at 1432 West Forest Avenue as a possible alternative SSA Field Office location. We also ask that you come prepared to discuss this and other viable options at our upcoming meeting on March 5, 2018 at the Office of Alderman Jose Perez. In order to meet SSA’s tight timeline for the planned closure of the Mitchell Street Office, we have asked Alderman Perez to expand that meeting to include our representatives as well as the offices of Mayor Barrett, State Senator Tim Carpenter, State Representative JoCasta Zamarripa, and Milwaukee Supervisor Peggy West. Thank you for your consideration of our requests. We look forward to meeting with members of SSA staff to work together to ensure that residents of Milwaukee’s Southside continue to have access to a neighborhood location where they can easily access in-person SSA services. # Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.20.2018	Milwaukee, WI – On Wednesday, February 21, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will host a press conference with Mayor Tom Barrett to denounce the planned closure of the only Social Security Administration (SSA) office on Milwaukee’s Southside and request the SSA work with the City of Milwaukee to identify an alternative South Side location immediately. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee district office at (414) 297-1140. WHAT: Press Conference Censuring Mitchell Street SSA Branch Closure WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore Mayor Tom Barrett WHEN: Wednesday, February 21, 2018 at 2:30 CT WHERE: Forest Home Library 1432 W. Forest Home Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53204 # Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.12.2018	Milwaukee, WI – In response to the announced closure of the Mitchell Street Social Security Administration Branch Office, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) wrote numerous letters to the Social Security Administration (SSA) and the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) urging that the decision be reconsidered. “I have a strong interest in this decision because the Mitchell Street Branch Office is located in my congressional district,” wrote Congresswoman Moore. “The City of Milwaukee's south side is home to the largest Hispanic population in the state. The Mitchell Street Branch Office provides services to constituents with limited English ability. The closing of that office not only takes away much needed services to the community, but it also creates a challenge to accessing services as the closest branch is the Downtown Branch, which has limited access to parking. My office has received calls regarding this matter from concerned City Officials, including City of Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett and Alderman Jose Perez.” Earlier today, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “In January, my office was informed that the Mitchell Street SSA Branch Office would be closing and their 15 employees relocated to the four remaining branches on March 22. In response, my office has written letters to the SSA and GSA identifying a south side relocation alternative. As I investigate this matter further, I am hopeful that the SSA will move forward immediately with opening another branch that provides crucial services and resources to residents in zip codes 53204, 53207, and 53235 (City of St. Francis) as failure to do so would put an undue burden on my constituents, especially those who call Milwaukee’s south side home.” Click here to see the full text of the letters. # Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement after the passage of a budget caps bill that ended the GOP’s second government shutdown in 2018: “After scrambling in utter chaos to end their second shutdown in a month, the Republican majority passed a budget agreement in the early hours of this morning. This bill paves the way for an omnibus spending bill, funds community health centers, disaster relief, the opioid epidemic, veterans, and rural broadband. Although Democrats have long fought for the inclusion of these provisions in this bill, at the end of the day, it simply wasn’t enough to overlook what was excluded. “As I contemplated how to cast my vote today, I thought of the strength and courage of Wisconsin DREAMers like Valeria Ruiz Lira and Alejandra Gonzalez. Like many DREAMers, Valeria and Alejandra have called the United States home for most of their lives. Yet, they – as well as hundreds of thousands across the country – have been forced to live in a constant state of uncertainty as congressional Republicans embrace President Trump’s bigoted policies and deny our DREAMers of their basic humanity. Despite such hateful opposition, these young men and women remain resolute. They are undocumented and unafraid. And as long as I’m in Congress, I’ll make sure they’re not alone in this fight. “Speaker Ryan’s continued failure to step up and schedule a vote to protect DREAMers is nothing short of shameful. As the March 5 deadline to pass permanent protections for DREAMers approaches, I will continue to fight for a DACA deal with great force and conviction. Democrats have worked hard to put American families first at every turn. Now, it is time for Republicans to follow suit and remember the words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who taught us, ‘The time is always right to do what’s right.’” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
01.31.2018	Washington, DC - In response to President Donald Trump's first State of the Union address, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) wrote the following opinion piece for NBC News THINK: The state of our union is strong. The resistance to Donald Trump's agenda proves it. The president's transgressions have done more to unify our country than any policy the administration has championed. This evening, as I sat in the well of the House of Representatives during President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address, I listened to him boast about his administration’s “incredible progress” and “extraordinary success.” “The state of our union is strong because our people are strong,” said the president. He’s right. The state of our union is indeed strong, as are the people who call it home. And despite what my Democratic colleagues might think, I do believe President Trump deserves credit as well — just not for the reasons he thinks. The president’s first year in office has been tumultuous to say the least. Most of his administration’s legislative goals have been mired by self-sabotage; his mental fitness and moral clarity have been questioned by both parties; special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation haunts the White House at every turn; and President Trump’s vulgar anti-immigrant comments have sent shockwaves across the globe. However, these shameful transgressions have done more to unify our country than any policy the Trump administration claims to have championed during its short tenure. Take, for example, the president’s efforts to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals: After making clear his intention to scrap protections for approximately 800,000 undocumented immigrants who came to our country as children, faith communities across America stood up to take action. Recently, dozens of rabbis and Jewish clergy members staged a sit-in under the Russell Senate Office Building rotunda to protest the president’s efforts. They called for the passage of the DREAM Act, a bipartisan bill that would provide a path to citizenship for those with DACA or Temporary Protected Status. A total of 82 people were arrested and escorted off the premises in handcuffs. "Welcoming the stranger is an important part of our identity,” said Barbra Weinstein, Associate Director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, one of the groups that organized the protest. “We are all descendants of immigrants. It's on all of us to support these DREAMers. They grew up here, this is the only country they've ever known, many of them serve in the military, this is their home.” Even conservatives deep in the heart of Trump country have made the decision to rise above the president’s anti-immigrant agenda. Residents of Volusia, Fla., where President Trump received 54 percent of the vote in 2016, recently elected Michael Chitwood — a progressive reformer with a strong pro-immigrant outlook — to serve as county sheriff. Sheriff Chitwood isn’t your typical red-state law enforcement official: He’s ordered his deputies to reject the racial-profiling tactics supported by the Trump Justice Department and has even lobbied Congress to find a solution to protect our DREAMers. During tonight’s speech, the president echoed Sheriff Chitwood’s sentiments, taking a break from his usual caustic, anti-immigrant rhetoric to express optimism in finding a bipartisan compromise on DACA. “It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules, and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century,” said the president. As lovely as that sounds, the validity of such a sentiment quickly degrades against the backdrop of reality. Let’s not forget that just weeks ago, in the vilest of manners, the president turned his back on a proposed bipartisan senate immigration compromise. "Why do we want all these people from shithole countries coming here?" President Trump asked a group of senators in the Oval Office. Ignorant viewpoints like that and the president’s corresponding polices have helped spur a surge of opposition at the ballot box, from support for candidates like state Delegate Danica Roem, D-Va., and Senator Doug Jones, D-Ala., to ordinary Americans running for office and taking matters into their own hands. And I’m proud to report that women are at the very tip of the spear. Women across the country have united in an unprecedented wave of first-time candidates taking to the campaign trail. In the last year, more than 26,000 women have contacted Emily’s List — the largest national resource for women in politics — about getting involved in public service. (I also turned to Emily’s List during my first bid for congress in 2004, and I continue to work with them today.) The administration’s intolerance, however, isn’t the only factor that has inspired everyday Americans to take a stand. In fact, many of the country’s most vulnerable joined forces against the president to oppose what is now considered his administration’s only major legislative achievement to speak of —the Republican tax plan. Last December, as members of Congress debated the plan, those representing America’s disabled converged on the capitol in droves to sound the alarm over the dangerous impact the Republican proposal would have on Medicaid. With a clear understanding that the tax plan would add $1.5 trillion to the national debt, disability rights activist knew Republicans would target programs like Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security, as a means to offset the price tag. Devastating cuts to these vital programs — $1 trillion from Medicaid and $500 billion from Medicare — is nothing short of a death sentence for Americans with disabilities. It was with this in mind that activists of all ages from across the political spectrum (some connected to ventilators) literally threw their bodies in front of the president’s agenda. They hoisted themselves out of their wheelchairs onto the floor of the Rayburn House Office Building and pleaded with their elected representatives to reverse course. It was a striking display of heroism that I will not soon forget. Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, “The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.” I believe the same could be said for our country. And in the face of an administration determined to vilify immigrants, ignore women, belittle communities of color, and put the desires of the wealthy before the needs of the vulnerable, courageous acts of defiance have only strengthened our collective resolve. In spite of President Trump and his administration, the state of our union has never been stronger. Congresswoman Gwen Moore was elected to represent Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District in 2004, making her the first African American elected to Congress from the State of Wisconsin. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.30.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced that internationally renowned social scientist, scholar, and welfare reform activist, Frances Fox Piven, will accompany her to President Donald Trump’s 2018 State of the Union address. “This year, I am honored to bring Frances Fox Piven as my guest to the State of the Union. Professor Fox Piven is a legendary activist whose work combatting poverty and fighting for welfare reform was a driving force in my decision to first run for elected office. “It’s no secret that social welfare programs are next on the Speaker Paul Ryan’s chopping block. Now more than ever, we must stand unified behind the contributions of activists like Professor Fox Piven to ensure that the programs serving our country’s poorest communities are protected. “Tonight, Professor Fox Piven will join me in sending a forceful message of opposition to the White House and Republican majority’s efforts to dismantle the social safety net. I came to Congress to fight for these programs, and I will not stand idly by as this administration attempts to use Medicare, Medicaid, and SSI, to foot the bill for their extremist agenda.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.26.2018	"Health care is a human right that this government should not restrict or make conditional," wrote the lawmakers. "Denying coverage to those eligible for Medicaid will not encourage them to work, but would instead restrict their access to health care services and endanger their health. Please rescind this harmful and unprecedented guidance immediately." share: f t Milwaukee, WI - In response to guidance issued by the Trump administration allowing states to impose work requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) led a letter with 72 of her congressional colleagues to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services requesting they promptly rescind these reckless and dangerous changes. The letter references several studies that demonstrate the adverse impact of imposing work requirements on low-income individuals. According to reports by the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities and the Kaiser Family Foundation, levying such harsh parameters not only fails to help recipients lift themselves out of poverty, but also degrades the economic well-being of vulnerable populations who lose access to the social safety net. "Health care is a human right that this government should not restrict or make conditional," wrote the lawmakers. "Denying coverage to those eligible for Medicaid will not encourage them to work, but would instead restrict their access to health care services and endanger their health. Please rescind this harmful and unprecedented guidance immediately." See the full text of the letter below: January 25, 2018 The Honorable Seema Verma Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 7500 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21244 Dear Administrator Verma: We write to express our strong disapproval of the January 11, 2018 guidance issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that would allow states to impose work requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries. CMS's guidance contradicts the clear intent of Congress in passing the Medicaid Act to provide health care for low-income people and is an unprecedented and likely illegal shift to Medicaid policy. We ask that you rescind this harmful guidance and deny all state applications to apply work requirements to Medicaid. The Medicaid program was established by Congress to provide "medical assistance [to all eligible individuals] whose income and resources are insufficient to meet the costs of necessary medical services." Congress was clear in requiring that through Medicaid, medical assistance be provided to all eligible individuals, regardless of employment status. This intent should be reflected in CMS's execution of the program and its efforts to work with states to expand and improve access to health care services for vulnerable populations. CMS's guidance does the opposite. Numerous studies, including from the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities and the Kaiser Family Foundation (KFF), show that imposing work requirements on people who are already suffering through hardship is ineffective in reducing poverty, ejects people from the program, and can even worsen the economic status of families and individuals who lose access to the social safety net. The Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program provides an example of the ineffective and harmful imposition of work requirements on beneficiaries. According to a 2015 study conducted by the University of Maryland, TANF recipients subjected to work requirements experienced only a modest and short-lived increase in employment. The study found that stable employment was the exception, not the norm, and many of the recipients subject to work requirements became financially worse off. Imposing work requirements on Medicaid recipients would not only be ineffective, it is also unnecessary. Many Medicaid recipients already work multiple low-paying jobs that do not afford them the ability to pay for even their most basic needs. According to the KFF, nearly 60 percent of working-age adults on Medicaid are already employed, mainly for employers that don't offer health insurance. Of those who are not working, most report reasons such as illness, caring for a family member, or going to school. Six percent express a desire to work but lack the ability to secure employment, and many say that enrolling in Medicaid has enabled them to improve their health enough to return to work. CMS has failed to provide any reliable evidence showing the efficacy of imposing work requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries to promote Medicaid's objectives or reduce poverty. CMS has simply chosen to ignore research showing that restricting access to Medicaid would worsen outcomes for those reliant on the program. The imposition of work requirements not authorized by Congress would only worsen the hardship of Medicaid recipients already struggling to make ends meet and would likely be illegal. Prior to the Trump administration, CMS had never approved conditioning Medicaid eligibility on meeting a work requirement, nor has Congress ever passed legislation imposing such a condition on eligibility. In fact, before January 12, 2018, CMS had consistently denied states' requests to apply work requirements to Medicaid eligibility. In a November 2016 letter to the Commissioner of the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services, CMS rejected that state's request to impose work requirements noting: After reviewing New Hampshire's amendment request to determine whether it meets these standards, CMS is unable to approve the following requests, which could undermine access, efficiency, and quality of care provided to Medicaid beneficiaries and do not support the objectives of the Medicaid program…. Health care is a human right that this government should not restrict or make conditional. Denying coverage to those eligible for Medicaid will not encourage them to work, but would instead restrict their access to health care services and endanger their health. Please rescind this harmful and unprecedented guidance immediately. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Members of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
01.25.2018	Milwaukee, WI — In response to numerous media reports of high levels of lead in Milwaukee’s drinking water, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent letters to the Acting Director of the Centers for Disease Control as well as the Field Office Director of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to seek information as to how the Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program is being managed. “As you know, the 2014 crisis in Flint, Michigan brought national attention to the issue of lead in drinking water, as well as the devastating health consequences on young children,” wrote Congresswoman Moore. “A couple years later, the Wisconsin Council on Children and Families released their analysis of the rate of lead poisoning among children in Wisconsin. This analysis showed that the rate of lead poisoning among children in Wisconsin is nearly equal to Flint, Michigan. In Wisconsin, 4.6% of children under the age of 6 who were tested had lead poisoning; Flint, Michigan’s rate was 4.9%. The analysis further found that a disproportionate number of African-American children had lead poisoning.” The letters also reference reports that the City of Milwaukee Health Department failed to provide notification to thousands of families whose children tested positive for elevated blood lead levels. “I am concerned about my constituents, especially the children who may not have received appropriate care. I urge you to investigate the administration of this program and ensure it is in compliance with the guidelines for lead poisoning as established by the federal Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program.” For more information on free blood lead testing click here. Find out if you qualify for a free drinking water filter here. See full text of the letters below: January 23, 2018 Mr. Mitchell Wolfe Acting Director Centers for Disease Control & Prevention 395 E St SW Ste 9100 Washington, DC 20472-3298 Dear Mr. Wolfe, I am writing this letter to seek information in regard to the federally funded Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, administered by the City of Milwaukee. As you know, the 2014 crisis in Flint, Michigan brought national attention to the issue of lead in drinking water, as well as the devastating health consequences on young children. A couple years later, the Wisconsin Council on Children and Families released their analysis of the rate of lead poisoning among children in Wisconsin. This analysis showed that the rate of lead poisoning among children in Wisconsin is nearly equal to Flint, Michigan. In Wisconsin, 4.6% of children under the age of 6 who were tested had lead poisoning; Flint, Michigan’s rate was 4.9%. The analysis further found that a disproportionate number of African-American children had lead poisoning. I mention the facts above in order to illustrate the seriousness of lead poisoning in the State of Wisconsin and, in particular, within the 4th Congressional District and the City of Milwaukee, which has the largest concentration of lead service lines in the state. The City of Milwaukee Health Department tests children for lead exposure through the earlier mentioned Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program. Recently, it was reported that the City of Milwaukee Health Department failed to provide notification to thousands of families whose children tested positive for elevated blood lead levels (see attached article). As a result of the lack of notification, the City of Milwaukee instituted a number of personnel changes, citing mismanagement in the City of Milwaukee Health Department. I am concerned about my constituents, especially the children who may not have received appropriate care. I urge you to investigate the administration of this program and ensure it is in compliance with the guidelines for lead poisoning as established by the federal Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program. The City of Milwaukee’s CDC Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program has been considered a model program for the nation in the past. The program is vital to the well-being of Milwaukee’s children and must continue to operate at a high standard to mitigate exposure to lead. I appreciate your timely consideration of this request. Please feel free to contact my office if you have questions regarding this letter. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.22.2018	Washington, D.C. - In response to the passage of the latest short-term Republican spending bill, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "My vote against this short-term Republican spending bill was a forceful vote against the reckless governing our constituents have come to despise. Once again, Republicans have pushed through legislation that ignores our obligation to protect DREAMers, fund our Community Health Centers, and support those who've been devastated by some of the worst national disasters in our history. Our nation deserves better. "Any substantive relationship - be it personal or professional - must be based on trust and integrity. Without confidence in our counterparts to negotiate in good faith, bipartisan solutions can never truly come to fruition. It is with this in mind that I express my profound disappointment in my Republican colleagues and their actions during this needless government shutdown. Their conduct underscores the sad reality that the GOP has spent any and all of their political capital on appeasing President Trump and his radical base. My trust in the GOP and their ability to govern is gone. "Shortly after the Senate voted to end the shutdown with Republican assurance that we would soon address the 800,000 DREAMers across our country, the White House rejected a critical bipartisan immigration proposal by Senator Dick Durbin and Senator Lindsey Graham. Such a cavalier and arrogant approach to negotiating clears up any ambiguity as to how we found our nation at such a perilous crossroads. It is our so-called 'Dealmaker in Chief' and his outright refusal to help this legislative body find common ground that has once again brought shame to the Office of the President, our country, and those who call it home." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – In response to the passage of the short-term House Republican spending bill, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Once again, Republicans have put our country in peril by ignoring our collective obligation to govern responsibly. Those I represent have understandably expressed their fatigue and resentment over Congressional Republicans passing extension after extension, demonstrating an alarming inability to fathom the consequences of their actions. Needless to say, I share my district’s frustration. “I did not come to Congress to govern by crisis, play political games with CHIP, or abandon 800,000 young DREAMers. I came to Congress to work for my constituents, and they’ve made it clear that they do not want me to capitulate to House Republicans who continue to hold our children and vital health coverage hostage as they pursue an extremist agenda. Republicans have gone too far. “Funding the government one month at a time while ignoring our legislative responsibilities is no way to run a country. We must move forward with bipartisan negotiations for a comprehensive omnibus spending bill that includes protections for DREAMers, a long-term extension of CHIP, and funding for disaster relief, the opioid epidemic, and our veterans.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
12.20.2017	Washington, DC – In response to the Senate Banking Committee’s decision to reject the nomination of Scott Garrett to lead the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I applaud the decision of both Republicans and Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee in ending the misguided nomination of Scott Garrett, President Donald Trump’s choice to lead the Ex-Im Bank. There is little doubt that Garret, who worked tirelessly to shut down the Bank during his tenure in Congress, would have worked from within to destroy this vital institution, forcing hard-working Americans to pay the price. “As a proven job creator that drives nationwide economic growth, I take comfort in knowing there is bipartisan consensus on the need to confirm a nominee who recognizes the role the Bank plays in strengthening our economy. Over the last 10 years, the Ex-Im Bank supported over 1.7 million American jobs. This year alone in Wisconsin, the Bank enabled the export of $181 million goods and services. “The Bank has been unquestionably successful in supporting American jobs and leveling the international playing field for American manufacturers. However, it remains to be seen if President Trump will answer the bipartisan calls for him to nominate someone who will bring the Bank back to its full potential. For the sake of American exports and the ability of US workers to compete in the global economy, I hope he does.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – In response to today's vote on, H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "As members of Congress, we have a duty to always put the needs of our constituents before our own. This reckless Republican tax bill not only represents a deep misunderstanding of that responsibility, but also exposes the extent of their indifference to the struggles of poor and working class families. "The GOP tax scam betrays every tenet of responsible governing and meaningful reform. It further complicates the tax code and creates even more loopholes for their corporate donors. When fully implemented, their plan will raise taxes on every single income group making less than $75,000 per year. Of the advertised tax benefits, 83% will go to the top 1% of taxpayers. "It’s no secret that CEOs have already stated their intention of passing these tax cuts to their shareholders rather than creating jobs or raising wages. Our constituents are rightfully sick and tired of these empty promises, trickle-down myths, and attempts to chip away at the bedrock safety net programs upon which they depend. That’s why I’ll continue to fight for policies that truly grow our economy and support the needs of regular Americans." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
12.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Congressman Erik Paulsen (MN-03) introduced the Trafficking Victims Protection Act to promote justice and services for trafficking survivors. This legislation encourages federal agencies to promptly report data on human trafficking offenses to the FBI and requires the Department of Homeland Security to submit an annual assessment on trends from human trafficking investigations. It also further improves training for law enforcement personnel by promoting a victim-centered approach to combatting human trafficking. Additionally, the bill formally authorizes an Office of Victim Assistance within the Department of Homeland Security. The specially trained victim assistance personnel at this office play a crucial role in securing victims’ cooperation with trafficking investigations. “For far too long, America’s criminal justice system has failed to protect those who have fallen victim to human trafficking,” said Congresswoman Moore. “In order to substantively combat this pervasive and complex issue, local and federal law enforcement officials must have the tools and training necessary to identify and respond to human trafficking in all of its forms. The Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017 not only addresses these concerns, but also builds upon the progress of the Violence Against Women Act to strengthen existing laws and grant federal agencies the capacity to provide critical services to trafficking survivors. During a time in our national politics when sensible legislation is regularly stymied by partisan entrenchment, I take great pride in the work Rep. Erik Paulsen and I have achieved in developing a bipartisan approach to end this form of modern-day slavery.” “When human trafficking survivors are freed from this modern-day slavery, we need to make sure these victims have the resources they need to get back on their feet and get the justice they deserve,” said Congressman Paulsen. “We must remain diligent in the effort to end sex trafficking and bolster the tools we have to help those in need.”
12.11.2017	Washington, D.C. — In response to concerns over Roy Moore’s presence in the U.S. Senate and the threat he represents to young people who participate in the U.S. Senate Page Program, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) wrote a letter to the Senate Sergeant at Arms to determine what preventative steps are being taken to protect Senate Pages from predatory conduct. As Congresswoman Moore writes, “It has come to light that Roy Moore is alleged to have had a number of inappropriate relationships with at least ten minors. The threat Roy Moore posed to minors was so notorious and troublesome that in 1979 he was banned from the Gadsen Mall and YMCA for soliciting sex from minor girls. In addition to initiating a sexual encounter with a fourteen-year-old when he was a thirty-two-year-old district attorney, Moore pursued relationships with three minors/young women between the ages of sixteen to eighteen during this time. “I believe my fears are well founded. We have seen Members of Congress abuse the Congressional Page Program. You will recall that in 2006, former Republican Representative Mark Foley resigned after sending suggestive emails and text messages to male Pages. Unfortunately, this was a contributing factor in the then elimination of the House Page Program. We need to be vigilant stewards of these children going forward.” Full text of the letter can be found below: Senate Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper U.S. Capitol Room S-151 Washington, DC 20510 RE: Safeguarding the Youth in the U.S. Senate Page Program Dear Senate Sergeant at Arms, I write you today to share my urgent concern regarding the threat to the safety of the young men and women working in the United States Senate Page Program if Roy Moore becomes the U.S. Senator to Alabama. It has come to light that Roy Moore is alleged to have had a number of inappropriate relationships with at least ten minors. The threat Roy Moore posed to minors was so notorious and troublesome that in 1979 he was banned from the Gadsen Mall and YMCA for soliciting sex from minor girls. In addition to initiating a sexual encounter with a fourteen-year-old when he was a thirty-two-year-old district attorney, Moore pursued relationships with three minors/young women between the ages of sixteen to eighteen during this time. As you know, for more than 180 years, the Congressional Page Program has provided a unique, life changing opportunity for young people interested in learning about the legislative process. These students are often high school juniors and seniors as young as 16 years of age. My state of Wisconsin currently has one Page serving the U.S Senate this year, and it is a program to which the state has been a proud contributor for many years. Serving as a Page can be an exciting and enriching experience for these students as it provides them unique insight into our legislative process. However, being away from home also puts these young people in a very vulnerable position. They are away from family and their normal support structures. They are thrust into an adult world and an unfamiliar city. The nature of life on Capitol Hill necessitates long hours in close proximity to lawmakers and staff that can create power dynamics of which young people are not fully aware. It would be unconscionable for Congress to not be vigilant and proactive in taking precautions to safeguard these children given the well sourced allegations against Roy Moore. I believe my fears are well founded. We have seen Members of Congress abuse the Congressional Page Program. You will recall that in 2006, former Republican Representative Mark Foley resigned after sending suggestive emails and text messages to male Pages. Unfortunately, this was a contributing factor in the then elimination of the House Page Program. We need to be vigilant stewards of these children going forward. In order to meet our obligation, I urge you to be proactive in protecting Senate Pages and that is why I am asking if you are taking steps to prepare the Page Program for the possible election of Roy Moore. I would like to know what preventative steps are being undertaken to safeguard Senate Pages from predatory conduct of U.S. Senators and Senate staff. The U.S. Congress has an obligation to keep these students safe especially in light of known potential harm. Thank you for your service. I look forward to reading your response. Sincerely, Gwen S. Moore Member of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
12.01.2017	House and Senate Republicans have a long track record of pushing through destructive proposals without giving anyone – including their own colleagues and stakeholders – the time to read the fine print, and today is no different. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the passage of the GOP tax plan in the Senate, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, Senate Republicans once again flouted the legislative process, jamming through a calamitous tax overhaul proposal that will undoubtedly paralyze Main Street America for years to come. Not only will this bill increase the deficit by $1.4 trillion over the next ten years, but it will also cripple affordable housing construction for the poor, raise taxes on 82 million middle class families, and cut Medicare and Medicaid by billions of dollars. If signed into the law, this effort will wreak havoc on both the fiscal health of our country and the physical health of our constituents as it will eliminate the Affordable Care Act individual mandate, unraveling our health care system and putting the lives of countless Americans at risk. “House and Senate Republicans have a long track record of pushing through destructive proposals without giving anyone – including their own colleagues and stakeholders – the time to read the fine print, and today is no different. The devil is indeed in the details. As senators go into conference with their House colleagues to work out the differences in their proposals, I call on all Americans to sound the alarm about this disastrous effort and demand their representatives change course before it’s too late.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
11.29.2017	After months of investigations by federal authorities, the EPA has put Greif Industries on notice for alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Clean Air Act at three of its Wisconsin facilities. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the announcement by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that multiple Milwaukee-area industrial refurbishing plants violated federal law, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “After months of investigations by federal authorities, the EPA has put Greif Industries on notice for alleged violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Clean Air Act at three of its Wisconsin facilities, two of which are in the 4th Congressional District. Needless to say, this news is deeply disturbing as the alleged hazard zones fall in densely populated residential neighborhoods putting the health and well-being of thousands at risk. “Today’s announcement not only stresses the need for enhanced transparency in the private sector, but it also underscores the necessity for press freedom and a responsive EPA that can hold companies accountable for breaking laws that protect the public. Since assuming office, those like Donald Trump and Scott Pruitt have done everything in their power to cripple the EPA’s regulatory capacity and vilify the media. Fortunately, press outlets like the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel have been working diligently to investigate corporate polluters like Greif Industries and shed light on their potentially dangerous practices. “As a member of Congress, nothing is more important to me than securing the safety of my constituents. With this in mind, I encourage the EPA and the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Material’s Safety Administration, as well as other applicable state and federal agencies, to continue to work to protect our communities from this threat and ensure Grief Industries promptly complies with federal law. As agencies move forward with the enforcement mechanisms available, I will continue to work with federal stakeholders and all relevant parties to ensure our residents have access to information about any potential environmental hazards they may have been exposed to.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.22.2017	Milwaukee, WI – On Monday, November 27th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join local leaders to remind constituents that they only have two more weeks until the December 15, 2017, deadline to shop for quality, affordable health insurance on HealthCare.gov. share: f t For Immediate Release November 27, 2017 Contact: Eric Harris (202) 225-4572 Congresswoman Gwen Moore Hosts Press Conference on ACA Open Enrollment Milwaukee, WI – On Monday, November 27th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join local leaders to remind constituents that they only have two more weeks until the December 15th deadline to shop for quality, affordable health insurance on HealthCare.gov. Despite confusion, the Affordable Care Act is still law so insurers are required to offer discounts; in fact, subsidies may be even higher this year. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee district office at (414) 297-1140. WHAT: Press Conference on ACA Open Enrollment WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore Mayor Tom Barrett, Milwaukee Jenni Sevenich, CEO of Progressive Community Health Centers WHEN: Monday, November 27, 2017 at 9am WHERE: Progressive Community Health 3522 W Lisbon Ave, Milwaukee, WI 53208 P: (414) 935-8000 ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.16.2017	Once again, Speaker Paul Ryan and his Republican House colleagues are taking a victory lap around Capitol Hill at the expense of America's working- and middle-class. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the passage of the House Republican tax plan, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade, issued the following statement: “We’ve been down this road before. “Once again, Speaker Paul Ryan and his Republican House colleagues are taking a victory lap around Capitol Hill at the expense of America’s working- and middle-class. Once again, the health care of millions — including children, the disabled, and those battling poverty — is in jeopardy in an effort to appease President Trump and his party’s wealthiest donors. And once again, the country now looks to the Senate to reject this dangerous proposal and find the humanity that all too often eludes their counterparts in House. “Let us hope that common-sense once again triumphs over arrogance and self-indulgence.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.16.2017	Chairman Pai's proposal to cap Lifeline is a direct assault on low-income communities who depend on phone and internet services as an essential component in their everyday lives. share: f t Washington, D.C.— Congresswoman Gwen S. Moore and Congressman Gregory W. Meeks led a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chair Ajit Pai expressing concern with recent changes to the Lifeline Program, which provides a modest monthly subsidy of $9.25 to connect low-income Americans to phone and internet service. Representatives Meeks and Moore issued the following statement regarding the letter, which was signed by 56 other House Democrats and supported by groups such as the NAACP, Communications Workers of America, Public Knowledge, and many others (listed below): “Chairman Pai’s proposal to cap Lifeline is a direct assault on low-income communities who depend on phone and internet services as an essential component in their everyday lives,” said Congresswoman Gwen Moore. “These services not only save lives during emergencies, as we saw during this year’s devastating hurricane season, but they are also vital when applying for jobs, attending school, scheduling doctors’ appointments, and maintaining finances. In 2016, the United Nations declared internet access a human right, so why, in 2017, is Chairman Pai trying to strip this right away? I will not sit by and watch as Chairman Pai allows the elderly, disabled, veterans, low income individuals, and communities of color to be placed on the wrong side of the digital divide.” “In our modern, highly technological and interconnected world, internet and phone service are all but required to lead a functional life. Many Americans still don’t have phone and internet access, rendering it nearly impossible to complete everyday tasks, such as finishing assigned schoolwork or conducting a phone interview,” Congressman Gregory W. Meeks said. “The digital divide—which Chairman Pai promised he would seek to minimize—persists today and the Lifeline Program is critical in helping minimize it. Yet, Chairman Pai’s proposed changes would practically decimate the Lifeline program, upon which millions of Americans rely. Indeed, this is nothing more than a poorly disguised attack on our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. I thank Congresswoman Moore and the cosigners and endorsing organizations of this letter for partnering with me to stand against Chairman Pai’s efforts to widen the digital divide.” Statements from endorsing organizations: “The Lifeline Program is the only government program dedicated to bringing telephone and internet service to low-income Americans; people who are disproportionately of color, seniors, veterans, and those with disabilities. It is because of Lifeline that more American workers, especially those who may be unemployed, have access to job openings, and more seniors can call their loved ones, neighbors, or emergency services in the event of a mishap,” said Ms. Hilary Shelton, Director of the NAACP’s Washington Bureau and the Senior Vice President for Policy and Advocacy. “Lifeline has enabled Veterans to access the health, educational, and financial benefits to which they are entitled and rural residents to have access to health care and emergency services. It is because of Lifeline that parents can stay in touch with their children’s schools and teachers. The FCC should be ashamed and embarrassed that rather than enhancing and encouraging Lifeline participation and success, it is taking steps to decimate the program. “It is alarming that if adopted by the FCC, these proposals would remove providers of affordable telecommunications service for nearly 70 percent of the low-income households who rely on Lifeline to connect to our modern communications network,” said National Consumer Law Center attorney Olivia Wein. “Instead, we should keep and strengthen recent reforms that modernized the Lifeline program to bridge the digital divide and allow millions of low-income families to partake in daily activities that many of us take for granted, such as using the internet for work, homework or to communicate with doctors and teachers.” “Chairman Pai’s proposal will destabilize and irreparably harm the Lifeline program, making it nearly impossible for our nation’s poorest families to get access and stay connected to phone and Internet service,” said Carmen Scurato, Director of Policy and Legal Affairs at the National Hispanic Media Coalition. “We need to work together to ensure that we bridge the digital divide so that traditionally marginalized communities can participate in our economy, democracy, and society - and gutting the Lifeline program is not the answer.” “It’s hard to underestimate the damage Chairman Pai’s plan to undercut Lifeline will have on low-income families and people of color,” said Free Press Action Fund Deputy Director and Senior Counsel Jessica J. González. “This cruel action benefits no one and is in defiance of the spirit of the program, which was designed to give some of the most vulnerable in our communities a chance to connect with others and find new opportunities. That an FCC chairman is even able to float such a ruthless proposal speaks poorly to the state of our politics today. Pai should be in government to help, not hurt, people. We’re thankful for Representatives Gregory Meeks and Gwen S. Moore’s efforts to call attention to this injustice and are happy that so many others have followed their lead to demand far better from this FCC chairman.” "If ultimately adopted, Chairman Pai's proposals would roll back the United States' longstanding commitment that basic telecommunications services should be universally available to and affordable for all Americans. The Chairman's plan would strand millions of low-income families, veterans, and children without affordable communications services, and drastically curtail their access to the education, job training, and basic services that increasingly require an internet connection,” said Public Knowledge. “Rather than moving forward with this plan that would harm the most vulnerable, the FCC should refocus its efforts to promote affordable, competitive broadband for all Americans, and ensure that the Lifeline program remains a core component of our efforts to close the digital divide." In reviewing FCC Chairman Pai’s Lifeline proposals, we can only conclude that his aim is to starve this vital program of service providers, participants, subsidies, and funding. The end result will be a drastically smaller, less effective program – and a widened chasm between those who can afford access to essential telecommunications services and those who cannot,” said Adrianne B. Furniss, Executive Director of the Benton Foundation. “This makes a mockery of U.S. telecommunications law and America’s historical commitment to ensure that affordable communications infrastructure and services reach everyone no matter where they live. Benton welcomes Congress’ reminder to the FCC about what its true mission is. Congressional Cosigners (56): Representatives Michael E. Capuano, Ro Khanna, Jerrold Nadler, Keith Ellison, G.K. Butterfield, Yvette D. Clarke, Hakeem Jeffries, Barbara Lee, Tim Ryan, Bonnie Watson Coleman, Alcee Hastings, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Anthony Brown, Bobby L. Rush, Mark Takano, James P. McGovern, Jose E. Serrano, Norma Torres, Earl Blumenauer, Raul Grijalva, Louise M. Slaughter, Dina Titus, Dwight Evans, Eliot Engel, Terri A.Sewell, Carolyn B. Maloney, Mark Pocan, Danny Davis, Janice D. Schakowsky, Robin L. Kelly, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Alma Adams, Steve Cohen, Grace F. Napolitano, Bennie G. Thompson, David N. Cicilline, Luis Gutierrez, John A. Yarmuth, Tulsi Gabbard, Robert A. Brady, Darren Soto, Ted Lieu, Joyce Beatty, McCollum, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Cedric L. Richmond, John Lewis, John Garamendi, Alan S. Lowenthal, Carol Shea-Porter, Marcy Kaptur, Colleen Hanabusa, Elijah E. Cummings, Jamie Raskin, Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Bill Foster Endorsing organizations (16): National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Communications Workers of America (CWA), Public Knowledge, Free Press, National Hispanic Media Coalition, National Lifeline Association, Benton Foundation, Greenlining Institute, United Church of Christ, Common Sense Kids Action, National Consumer Law Center, The Utility Reform Network, OpenMedia, OCA- Asian Pacific American Advocates, New America’s Open Technology Institute, Appalshop, Inc ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.15.2017	Milwaukee, WI – On Monday, November 20th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join local leaders to discuss the alarming impact the GOP tax plan will have on the country. share: f t For Immediate Release November 20, 2017 Contact: Eric Harris (202) 225-4572 Congresswoman Gwen Moore Hosts Press Conference on GOP Tax Plan Milwaukee, WI – On Monday, November 20th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will join local leaders to discuss the alarming impact the GOP tax plan will have on the country. Not only does the bill include drastic cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, but it also eliminates student loan and state and local tax deductions upon which millions of Americans depend. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee district office at (414) 297-1140. WHAT: Press Conference on GOP Tax Plan WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore Mayor Tom Barrett, Milwaukee Mayor Dan Bukiewicz, Oak Creek Dr. Robert Kraig, Executive Director, Citizen Action of Wisconsin Stephanie Sue Stein, Board of Directors, League of Progressive Seniors Amy Mizialko, Vice President, Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association WHEN: Monday, November 20, 2017 at 9:30am WHERE: Washington Park Senior Center 4420 W Vliet St, Milwaukee, WI 53208 P. (414) 933-2332 ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.13.2017	The young men and women who I have nominated to attend our nation's military service academies exemplify hard-work, dedication, and an unwavering commitment to protecting and serving the citizens of the United States. share: f t Washington, DC – Every year, members of congress have the distinct privilege of helping to choose the next leaders of our great nation’s armed forces. Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced the 2017 service academy nominees from Wisconsin’s 4th congressional district. “The young men and women who I have nominated to attend our nation’s military service academies exemplify hard-work, dedication, and an unwavering commitment to protecting and serving the citizens of the United States. This year’s process was highly competitive, and I can say with certainty that these exceptional students will do our district and country proud."“The United States Air Force Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States Military Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy provide our nation’s youth with world class military training and academic degrees. Graduating from these schools is no easy task, but these young Wisconsinites are up to the challenge. I am proud to represent them in congress, and I look forward to watching them achieve incredible feats in the coming years.” Below, please find a list of this years’ service academy nominees.Cole AckerThomas DatkaSean GilliganTimothy GomezSpencer GuentherJohn LaBonteDonovan LaudaCalleigh RogersJoseph WilsonAndrew Zeidler###Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram | Website
11.03.2017	Sadly, in too many cases, like that of Zina Daniel, restraining orders alone are woefully inadequate from preventing an estranged partner from doing the unthinkable. My bill – the Domestic Violence Gun Homicide Prevention Act –would address this glaring defect in our justice system by incentivizing the implementation of stricter state-level firearm enforcement protections, giving law enforcement and judicial authorities the tools they need to save the lives of survivors and their families. share: f t Washington, D.C. – This week, as Domestic Violence Awareness Month concluded, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) reintroduced the Domestic Violence Gun Homicide Prevention Act of 2017, legislation that would establish a grant program to encourage states to implement strong firearm enforcement policies, empowering law enforcement officials to remove guns from domestic violence situations. “When a victim makes the courageous decision to leave an abusive situation, her life is at the greatest risk,” said Congresswoman Moore. “At such a critical juncture, the safety of the victim all too often depends on state enforcement authorities that lack the resources needed to swiftly disarm abusers. Sadly, in too many cases, like that of Zina Daniel, restraining orders alone are woefully inadequate from preventing an estranged partner from doing the unthinkable. My bill — the Domestic Violence Gun Homicide Prevention Act —would address this glaring defect in our justice system by incentivizing the implementation of stricter state-level firearm enforcement protections, giving law enforcement and judicial authorities the tools they need to save the lives of survivors and their families.” “The link between domestic violence and guns is well-documented, and deadly,” said Senator Blumenthal. “Lori Jackson’s tragic death is one of thousands that occur each year following domestic disputes. The narrowly-crafted legislation I introduced today in Lori’s name would close the loophole that allows domestic abusers under temporary restraining orders to legally obtain weapons. Together with the Domestic Violence Gun Homicide Prevention Act – which would strengthen protections for domestic violence survivors – we can act decisively to prevent gun deaths at the hands of domestic abusers. Continued congressional complicity in this matter is unacceptable.” "While many states have appropriate laws to keep firearms out of the hands of dangerous domestic abusers, not all jurisdictions have the resources or supports to actively enforce these laws,” said Ruth Glenn, Executive Director of National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV). “Research shows these laws save lives - but only when effectively implemented. The Domestic Violence Gun Homicide Prevention Act gives states the flexibility to use COPS grants to assist courts and law enforcement in following best practices to remove firearms from prohibited abusers and to protect vulnerable victims when responding to domestic violence crimes. Enforcement is essential!" “We already know that when a gun is present in a domestic violence situation, a victim is 500% more likely to be murdered,” said Kim Gandy, President and CEO of National Network to End Domestic Violence. “We applaud Representative Gwen Moore for introducing this bill to give states additional resources to remove guns from abusers. This is an important investment in the promise Congress has already made to victims, that their abusers would not have guns, by creating an avenue for effective implementation.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.26.2017	In passing this spiteful resolution, the GOP once again turned its back on a group of Americans too often overlooked in the halls of Congress: the single, working-class mother. With her in mind, I forcefully voted against this bill as the trillions of dollars in tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans will be done at the expense of her and the programs helping her escape poverty. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the passage of the GOP’s FY 2018 Budget Resolution, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Much like their efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the Republican budget resolution was drafted in secrecy, denounced by both sides of the aisle, and rife with massive tax cuts for powerful corporations. Despite condemnation by those in their own party, Republicans narrowly passed what can only be described as a reckless and dangerous bill that will reshape our economy and deal an immense blow to critical services like Medicaid and Medicare. “In passing this spiteful resolution, the GOP once again turned its back on a group of Americans too often overlooked in the halls of Congress: the single, working-class mother. With her in mind, I forcefully voted against this bill as the trillions of dollars in tax cuts for the wealthy will come at the expense of the very programs that help her escape poverty. Threatening essential health programs for the most vulnerable as a means to satisfy President Trump’s wild campaign promises reflects nothing but contempt for women who are simply trying to provide for their families. “Our shared failure to invest in these women with robust contributions to health services, child care, and vocational training cannot be understated. Such indifference and neglect while simultaneously burdening them with soaring taxes demands nothing less than our collective indignation. If single, working-class mothers are truly the canaries in the coal mine when it comes to the well-being of our country, all of us have cause for concern.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.13.2017	Women across the ideological spectrum are rightfully disgusted by the ongoing efforts of those who seek to control our reproductive freedom. Fortunately, organizations like Planned Parenthood continue to demonstrate their willingness to be there for members of our community, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, or socioeconomic status. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to the opening of Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin’s new Water St. Center facility in Milwaukee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “For decades, Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin has played a pivotal role in my district, serving women, men, and those who too often have nowhere to turn for their health care needs. The opening of Planned Parenthood’s new Water St. Center facility in Milwaukee not only represents the welcomed addition of another trusted health care provider in our community, but also underscores Planned Parenthood’s ongoing and unwavering commitment to the well-being of my constituents. In the face of intentional, targeted attacks on our reproductive rights, Milwaukee is fortunate that Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin and its supporters have once again rallied together to provide essential health services. “The opening of Planned Parenthood’s new facility is especially significant as women across the country continue to have their reproductive rights targeted by the White House and the GOP. In what can only be described as another callous attempt to undermine women, House Republicans recently passed a bill that would ban abortion after 20 weeks. Days later, the White House announced they would allow employers to discriminate against women by denying insurance coverage for birth control. And just yesterday, President Trump issued an Executive Order endangering women by jeopardizing basic health coverage such as maternity, newborn, and preventative care, and announced his intent to end the Affordable Care Act’s cost-sharing reductions that make health care accessible for millions of Americans. “Women across the ideological spectrum are rightfully disgusted by the ongoing efforts of those who seek to control our reproductive freedom. Fortunately, organizations like Planned Parenthood continue to demonstrate their willingness to be there for members of our community, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, or socioeconomic status. Not only will their new facility serve as a place for patients to receive family planning services, wellness screenings, and sex education, but it also serves as symbol of resilience. I’d like to extend my deepest gratitude to Planned Parenthood for their work to enhance access to critical health care in Milwaukee and I welcome their new clinic to our neighborhood.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.19.2017	On Wednesday, September 20th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) will host a roundtable with top UK and European legislators on the impact of BREXIT on equality and civil and human rights. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 19, 2017Contact: Eric Harris (202) 225-4572 Washington, DC – On Wednesday, September 20th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), and Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) will host a roundtable with top UK and European legislators on the impact of BREXIT on equality and civil and human rights. Follow the conversation on Facebook Live. WHAT: BREXIT’s Impact on Race, Rights, and Politics WHO: Cécile Kashetu Kyenge, Member of the European Parliament (Italy); Chair, European Parliament, Anti-Racism and Diversity Intergroup David Lammy, Member of Parliament, (United Kingdom); Chair of the Lammy Review on Criminal Justice Malcolm Momodou Jallow, Member of Parliament (Sweden) Dr. Killion Munyama, Member of Parliament (Poland); Head, Parliamentary Assembly Council of Europe Equality Committee on Equality and Discrimination Sarah Chander, Advisor, European Network Against Racism Moderator: Alfiaz Vaiya, Advisor, European Parliament, Anti-Racism Diversity Intergroup WHEN: Wednesday, September 20, 2017, 10am – 11:30am ET WHERE: Facebook Live: https://www.facebook.com/GwenSMoore/ For more information about this event, please contact Eric Harris at (202) 225-4572 ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.12.2017	As FCC Chairman, you have stated your intention to •bring the benefits of the digital age to all Americans.' If closing the digital divide is your goal, moving the USF to Treasury is a step in the wrong direction. share: f t Washington, DC — The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) recently announced their intent to move the Universal Service Fund (USF) — a congressional effort to provide access to telecommunications to rural and underserved communities — to the U.S. Department of Treasury. As such an action will have a devastating impact on the USF and its programs, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Congressman Steve Pearce (NM-02), Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), and Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05) sent a letter to FCC Chairman Ajit Pai asking him to reconsider this misguided action. The decision to move the USF to the U.S. Department of Treasury was prompted by a misleading U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report claiming widespread abuse in the Lifeline program, a USF-supported initiative to help make communications services more affordable for low-income consumers. However, the GAO report neglected to recognize recent reforms made to the Lifeline program and thus paints an inaccurate picture as to how this critical program operates. Moving the USF to the U.S. Department of Treasury could cripple its programs as its funds could then be diverted away from those who need it the most: rural and underserved Americans. “As FCC Chairman, you have stated your intention to ‘bring the benefits of the digital age to all Americans.’ If closing the digital divide is your goal, moving the USF to Treasury is a step in the wrong direction,” said the lawmakers in the letter. The text of the letter is below and a PDF of the letter can be found here. Dear Chairman Pai, As you know, Congress codified the Universal Service Fund (USF) in Section 254 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The USF was created with bipartisan support to provide universal access to telecommunications in the United States. The USF is important to communities across the country and plays a key role in helping rural communities bridge the digital divide. It provides access to telemedicine in rural areas through increased connectivity (Rural Health Care Program), phone and broadband services for low-income Americans (Lifeline Program), discounts to schools and libraries (E-Rate Program), and funding to companies working to maintain and expand broadband infrastructure in underserved or unserved areas (Connect America Fund). The funds are generated by telecommunications providers who pay a quarterly fee and are overseen by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC). Telecommunications providers generate this fee for the specific purpose of increasing access to telecommunications services for underserved populations, not to pay down the federal debt. The USF plays a vital role in providing essential services to the nation, and must remain outside of the Department of Treasury (Treasury) to ensure the funds continue to be used for their congressional intent. As you are aware, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) made recommendations in a May 2017 report GAO-17-538 (Report) to move the USF from the USAC to the Department of Treasury. We strongly oppose these proposals and ask that you reject them outright. Among other issues, this report’s data does not reflect Lifeline’s 2016 reforms and will have adverse effects to other programs which rely on the USF, such as the Connect America Fund. Moving the USF to Treasury would harm our constituents, and would be contrary to the congressional intent of the USF. The recommendation in the GAO’s report to move the USF to Treasury was specific to the Lifeline Program. It is unclear if the adverse effects this move will have on the other programs that utilize the USF, such as the Connect America Fund, were considered when the suggestion was made. Currently, there are two federal programs directed to fund broadband in rural areas: the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) program at the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Connect America Fund through USF. The USF funded Connect America Fund is important because it does not rely on the yearly appropriations process for funding, making it a reliable and stable source for rural broadband. Moreover, the Connect America Fund provides ongoing subsidies to maintain broadband networks unlike the RUS, which distributes upfront capital to build broadband infrastructure. According to the FCC’s 2016 Broadband Progress Report, approximately 24 million people living in rural communities lack the network infrastructure necessary to provide reliable broadband. Moving the USF to Treasury risks the only federal program directed to maintain rural broadband being zeroed out and having adverse effects on the overall livelihood of these communities. Started under the Reagan Administration in 1985, the FCC’s Lifeline Program provides discount phone and broadband service for low-income consumers in all states, territories, and Tribal Lands. Lifeline crosses all demographics and areas of the country, and has always had bipartisan support. In 2005, the program was updated to provide consumers the option between landline and a wireless device. In 2016, Lifeline was expanded to provide consumers the option between standalone mobile, fixed broadband, and combined bundles of voice and broadband. According to the USAC, over 39 million people in the country are eligible for Lifeline, including a disproportionate number of minorities, veterans, and households with children 17 years or younger. In its May 2017 report, the GAO recommends moving the USF to Treasury in an effort to reduce risks of fraud and abuse in the Lifeline program. The report uses data from 2012-2014, a period before the 2016 FCC reforms to the Lifeline Program were implemented. Therefore, this analysis does not account for the most recent changes to prevent fraud. We do not condone waste or abuse in any program. However, there are other options to pursue the goal of reform without resorting to transferring the USF to Treasury. The FCC has already begun implementation of its 2016 Lifeline Modernization Order, which outlines modernizing reforms to reduce fraud. One of the initiatives in the order directs USAC to develop a National Lifeline Eligibility Verifier (National Verifier) to determine subscriber eligibility. Under the 2016 Order, service providers would also be responsible for recertifying subscribers within a 12 month time period. As FCC Chairman, you have stated your intention to “bring the benefits of the digital age to all Americans.” If closing the digital divide is your goal, moving the USF to Treasury is a step in the wrong direction. Based on the congressional intent of the USF, your goal to bring the digital age to all Americans, and the recently issued and implemented 2016 Lifeline Modernization Order, we request that the USF remain at USAC for the well-being of programs such as the Connect America Fund and to continue to build off of the 2016 Lifeline Modernization Order to combat abuse. Thank you for your thoughtful consideration of this request and we look forward to your response. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.01.2017	As the Trump administration continues to push a truly un-American agenda of discrimination and mass deportation, Congress must unite to protect DACA, its recipients, and their families. Today and always, I stand with my Democratic colleagues fighting to protect DACA and pass compressive immigration reform. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to speculation the Trump administration will soon phase out the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “In my district and across the country, DREAMers – undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children – make important societal contributions. They are a vital part of our nation’s fabric, and they must be defended. Yet, their fate is now uncertain as President Donald Trump prepares to end DACA, the program that allowed 800,000 DREAMers to come out of the shadows and establish roots in the country they call home. As we await a decision from the White House, it is imperative to emphasize the local and national consequences of shuttering such a critical program. “Most DREAMers have known no other home than the United States. The vast majority of DACA-eligible students over the age of 18 received a high school education here. Our nation has made an investment in their future that not only transformed their lives, but also had widespread economic benefits for all of us. Turning our backs on that investment and ending DACA isn’t just morally reprehensible, but it could also cost the country up to 700,000 jobs and $460.3 billion in economic output over the next decade. If Wisconsin’s 6,582 DACA workers are deported, it would cost the state more than $400 million annually. “As the Trump administration continues to push a truly un-American agenda of discrimination and mass deportation, Congress must unite to protect DACA, its recipients, and their families. Today and always, I stand with my Democratic colleagues fighting to protect DACA and pass comprehensive immigration reform.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
08.31.2017	David Clarke's untimely departure as Milwaukee County Sheriff isn't just a victory for Milwaukee, but for all of those whose rights and dignity were violated during his tenure. Joe Arpaio-like law enforcement figures like Clarke, who prioritize partisan fame over their constituents' safety, have no place in our local or federal government. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin — In response to Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke’s resignation, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “David Clarke’s untimely departure as Milwaukee County Sheriff isn’t just a victory for Milwaukee, but for all of those whose rights and dignity were violated during his tenure. Joe Arpaio-like law enforcement figures like Clarke, who prioritize partisan fame over their constituents' safety, have no place in our local or federal government. “Rather than being a valuable voice in the national conversation over the strained relationship between police and the communities they serve, Clarke allowed his appetite for the spotlight to erode his credibility and weaken his authority as sheriff. As too many of my constituents can attest to, he cared more about his office looking bad than doing good. Milwaukee County deserved better. “Clearly, Clarke was incapable of serving the residents who elected him to office as he was only interested in serving a constituency of one: himself. However, even in his absence, I will continue to push Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and the Justice Department to hold Clarke responsible for the lives destroyed under his watch like Terrill Thomas, Michael Madden, Kristina Fiebrink and Shadé Swayzer's newborn baby girl. In the meantime, I call on Governor Walker to appoint a sheriff who will take their job seriously, value compassion over condescension, and put people before politics.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
08.15.2017	For the sake of the soul of our country, we must come together to restore our national dignity that has been robbed by Donald Trump's presence in the White House. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to yet another defense of the hate groups responsible for the violent clashes that occurred in Charlottesville, VA, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “As we once again hear Donald Trump defend those responsible for the deadly riot in Charlottesville and receive praise by hate groups like the KKK and neo-Nazis, the time has come for Republicans and Democrats to put aside our political differences and philosophical debates for a higher cause. For the sake of the soul of our country, we must come together to restore our national dignity that has been robbed by Donald Trump’s presence in the White House. My Republican friends, I implore you to work with us within our capacity as elected officials to remove this man as our commander-in-chief and help us move forward from this dark period in our nation’s history.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
08.14.2017	If the president is sincere in his rebuke of white supremacy, I call on him to remove those in his inner circle who embrace such hateful ideals, starting with Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller, and Sebastian Gorka. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to the deadly white supremacist attack in Charlottesville, VA, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “As we mourn for Heather Heyer and her family, we are reminded that we cannot fight for justice alone. We are all in this together, regardless of our ethnicity or political philosophy. Now is the time for those who have yet to feel the sting of oppression and intolerance to unite with us in amplifying our collective voices against those who proudly brandish the hateful symbolism embraced by the likes of David Duke and Dylan Roof. Our coalition against hate is strong, but only when those who experience and benefit from privilege join us can we truly be an unstoppable force. “White supremacy, our nation’s original sin, has always held a prominent role in the African American experience. However, we aren’t alone in our endeavor to combat domestic terrorism. Jews, Muslims, LGBTQ individuals, and other marginalized groups have a long and rich history of standing shoulder to shoulder with us as part of our shared efforts to extinguish the flames of racism and extremist views of white nationalism. Their partnership echoes the words of Elie Wiesel who urged us to take sides and reminded us that, ‘Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented. Sometimes we must interfere.’ “The vile expressions of hate that occurred in Charlottesville, while surprising to some, evoked all too familiar feelings of vulnerability and anger for my constituents and communities of color. Such vitriol demanded nothing less than our country’s strongest and immediate condemnation, starting with the president. But when initially presented with the opportunity to reject white supremacy and address the ongoing scourge of hate aimed at intimidating and terrorizing us, we were offered vague objections and unattributed press statements. “In the face of days of public admonishment by leaders on both sides of the aisle, the President of the United States finally condemned those whose actions led to the death of Heather Heyer. Although, I am relieved that President Trump eventually issued an explicit denouncement of these hate groups, he must understand actions speak louder than words. If the president is sincere in his rebuke of white supremacy, I call on him to remove those in his inner circle who embrace such hateful ideals, starting with Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller, and Sebastian Gorka.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
07.26.2017	Too often, Americans are promised by those they elect that job creation is just beyond the horizon, only to discover that such assurances are merely an attempt to win elections. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to an invitation by President Donald Trump to attend an event announcing the construction of a Foxconn manufacturing facility in southeastern Wisconsin, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Yesterday, I respectfully declined an invitation by President Trump to take part in today’s White House announcement regarding the construction of a Foxconn manufacturing facility in Wisconsin. While I am relieved to learn my state could potentially see an influx of jobs because of this project, my constituents have no interest in me entertaining the president’s desire to be used as a backdrop in his photo op. Rather, I will be using this time to answer questions from constituents and local organizations as part of today’s Congressional Black Caucus Twitter Town Hall on Trumpcare. “Too often, Americans are promised by those they elect that job creation is just beyond the horizon, only to discover that such assurances are merely an attempt to win elections. As a candidate for governor, Scott Walker promised to create 250,000 private-sector jobs in four years. After more than six years in office, Wisconsinites are still waiting for Governor Walker to follow through on his word. The same can be said for President Trump who notably worked with Carrier last year in an effort prevent the shuttering of plants across the country. Nearly seven months after the president declared victory and assured Carrier employees their jobs were safe, we’ve learned hundreds will soon be laid off. Despite their broken promises, I truly believe Wisconsin’s workers, combined with our state’s world-class education system, make the Badger State the best place for businesses to invest, and I approach today’s Foxconn announcement with cautious optimism. “Americans don’t need politicians taking public victory laps with nothing to show for it. As President Trump and Governor Walker smile for the cameras, I’ll be with the Congressional Black Caucus taking questions from Americans whose lives would be put at risk under Trumpcare.” Note: Congresswoman Moore will be taking over the Congressional Black Caucus Twitter account today from 5:15pm to 5:45pm ET. To ask a healthcare question, tweet at @OfficialCBC and/or use the hashtag #CBCOnHealthcare (using the hashtag is preferred). ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
07.24.2017	Let's call the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity what it really is: A painfully transparent attempt by President Trump to substantiate his unfounded claims about voter fraud in the 2016 presidential election. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to an appeal by the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity for sensitive information on Wisconsin voters, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02), and Congressman Ron Kind (WI-03), wrote a letter to the Wisconsin Elections Commission and Wisconsin Secretary of State Doug La Follette urging them to disregard the Commission’s request. “Let’s call the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity what it really is: A painfully transparent attempt by President Trump to substantiate his unfounded claims about voter fraud in the 2016 presidential election,” said Congresswoman Moore. “With Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach at the helm of this Commission – the architect of several restrictive voter suppression initiatives against communities of color for which he was sued by the A.C.L.U. on four separate occasions – I fear our country will once again see an influx of discriminatory policies reminiscent of the ‘grandfather clauses’ of the Jim Crow era. I simply cannot endorse the release of sensitive voter information to a Commission led by a man whose connections to organizations deemed ‘hate groups’ by the Southern Poverty Law Center reach back over a decade.” “More than 8 months after the 2016 election, President Trump still cannot comprehend how he lost the popular vote to Secretary Clinton. Despite his place in the White House, he is still clinging to the false claim that there was widespread voter fraud and his sham President Commission on Election Integrity only serves to perpetuate that myth,” said Congressman Pocan. “President Trump’s sham commission will be used as a tool of discrimination and voter suppression, not as a way to strengthen and secure our electoral process. Wisconsin should join states across the country in rejecting President Trump’s demands to turn over data. Our voters deserve it.” “It is absolutely outrageous that in 2017 we still have politicians who are trying to make it harder for Wisconsinites to vote,” said Congressman Kind. “I urge the Wisconsin Elections Commission, in the strongest terms possible, to refuse requests by the Trump Administration to turn over Wisconsinites’ private information.” “Never before has the personal voting data of so many—over 200 million Americans—been compiled and stored in one source,” the Members of Congress wrote. “The collection of this information by the Commission creates an undue risk to the privacy rights of Wisconsin voters. While we note that your current position on this matter is to supply the Commission with publically accessible data and to charge a fee for the remaining information, we caution that your decision to even partially cooperate with this inquest exposes the Wisconsin electorate to significant, irreparable harm, especially in light of allegations of extensive efforts by Russia and others to interfere in our democracy. A price should not be placed on the privacy of our constituents.” The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy can be found here. Wisconsin Elections Commission212 East Washington Avenue, Third FloorP.O. Box 7984Madison, Wisconsin 53707-7984 Dear Wisconsin Elections Commission, We write today to strongly encourage you to disregard the request of the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity (the Commission) for the State of Wisconsin to provide it with a list of names, social security data, addresses, dates of birth, political affiliation, criminal background, voting history, and military status of Wisconsin registered voters. The request exposes the private information of the Wisconsin electorate to the potential of being compromised in order to prove the baseless claim of President Trump that millions of people cast illegal in-person ballots. The Commission’s Vice Chair, and sitting Kansas Secretary of State, Kris Kobach maintains that the requested information is needed to safeguard against in-person election fraud. However, as Secretary of State, Kobach has not been able to demonstrate that in-person voter fraud is a problem despite it being his top policy priority. It is worth noting, he is the only Secretary of State with prosecutorial authority over ballot fraud. His aggressive pursuit to prove voter fraud in Kansas has resulted in only a single conviction, but multiple lawsuits. Never before has the personal voting data of so many—over 200 million Americans—been compiled and stored in one source. The collection of this information by the Commission creates an undue risk to the privacy rights of Wisconsin voters. While we note that your current position on this matter is to supply the Commission with publically accessible data and to charge a fee for the remaining information, we caution that your decision to even partially cooperate with this inquest exposes the Wisconsin electorate to significant, irreparable harm, especially in light of allegations of extensive efforts by Russia and others to interfere in our democracy. A price should not be placed on the privacy of our constituents. We know from our intelligence community that a hostile foreign government indeed tried to influence our 2016 presidential election. Former FBI Director James Comey confirmed in his testimony to the House Intelligence Committee that Russian military intelligence attacked our nation’s voter software in an effort to influence the election and weaken our democracy. We have also seen reports in recent days that the Trump Administration has colluded with that same foreign adversary of which our intelligence community has warned. President Trump has yet to take any affirmative steps to secure both the state and federal voting rolls from further hostile foreign interference. Given these facts, we find it reckless to increase voter data vulnerability by facilitating the Commission’s request. Several studies at the state and federal levels confirm there is no evidence to validate President Trump’s allegations of rampant illegal in-person voting during the 2016 elections. The inability of the Trump Administration to produce proof of in-person voter fraud does not necessitate the Commission or the collection of Wisconsin voter information. It is also worth noting that neither Vice Chair Kobach’s State of Kansas nor Commission Chair and Vice President Mike Pence’s State of Indiana is participating in this request to provide data. Wisconsin should follow the example of the growing number of states that are rightfully choosing to protect their voters. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMark PocanRon Kind ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
07.21.2017	Such an insensitive and draconian approach to our budget, coupled with the trillions of dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans at the expense of essential health, infrastructure, and jobs programs, speaks volumes as to who Republicans truly care about. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the House Republican FY 2018 budget resolution, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade, released the following statement: “In the House of Representatives, our legislative undertakings communicate powerful messages as to who we are and who we represent. But all too often, there are vast discrepancies between the values we publicly express and the values demonstrated through our actions. Nothing demonstrates such flagrant inconsistencies more than the 2018 House Republican budget proposal currently before congress. “In May, Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney took to Fox News to assure the American people that ‘Republicans care about poor people. Republicans care about kids. Republicans care about the elderly.’ Yet, with trillions of dollars in cuts to Medicaid and Medicare and the offensive imposition of work requirements on those who rely on social welfare programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, it is abundantly clear the House Republican budget greatly contradicts Director Mulvaney’s claim. “Such an insensitive and draconian approach to our budget, coupled with the trillions of dollars in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans at the expense of essential health, infrastructure, and jobs programs, speaks volumes as to who Republicans truly care about. I intend to stand up against this budget and speak out for the working families, children, seniors, and people with disabilities who would undoubtedly suffer under this spiteful proposal.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.29.2017	Today, I proposed a legislative solution to this national problem we can all support, regardless of party affiliation or political ideology. H.R. 3060, the Preventing Tragedies Between Police and Communities Act of 2017 – which draws from several •best practices' and recommendations from the nonpartisan Police Executive Research Forum – federally mandates de-escalation training for law enforcement officials. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the national outcry over police-involved shootings and calls to repair the strained relationship between police and civilians, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced the Preventing Tragedies Between Police and Communities Act of 2017. Drawing upon policy recommendations made by the Police Executive Research Forum, this legislation would require de-escalation training in police academies across the country with an overarching focus on preserving life. Today, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “As summer begins and temperatures rise, as do tensions between communities and the law enforcement officials sworn to protect them. And with children out of school and jobs in short supply, parents across my congressional district fear their loved ones will be involved in a tragic interaction with a police officer. Their alarm is justified. As a mother and grandmother of Black children, such anxiety is all too familiar. “Next month will mark a year since civil unrest and city-wide protests erupted in Milwaukee after the fatal police-involved shooting of Sylville Smith. For years, I have racked my brain trying to understand deaths like that of Mr. Smith, Dontre Hamilton, and Philando Castile. I have grieved with mothers who have lost their children. I have met with experts and attended roundtables in my ongoing efforts to put an end to these fatal encounters. “Today, I proposed a legislative solution to this national problem we can all support, regardless of party affiliation or political ideology. H.R. 3060, the Preventing Tragedies Between Police and Communities Act of 2017 – which draws from several ‘best practices’ and recommendations from the nonpartisan Police Executive Research Forum – federally mandates de-escalation training for law enforcement officials. Through enhanced training and preparation, we can equip police with the necessary tools and education to prevent violent interactions, saving not only their lives, but also the lives of the civilians they serve. “The Dallas Police Department has employed de-escalation training with great success. Since changing their training to emphasize de-escalation rather than confrontation, the number of complaints alleging excessive and improper use of force fell from 147 in 2009 to 13 in November of 2015. In the face of a strained relationship between police and civilians nationwide, Dallas was able to implement reforms that reduced their rate of police-related shootings to one of the lowest of any large city in America. "It is my sincere hope to replicate Dallas’ success across the country. I ask my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to prioritize the preservation of life by supporting this bill.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.29.2017	Mr. Speaker, this bill will have an impact on you. It's not just poor people, it's everybody. All Americans, every American, relies on decent good healthcare. This is the largest healthcare program in our country that is about to be dismantled. I caution everyone, especially you, Mr. Speaker, to beware. share: f t Washington D.C. — In response to efforts by Senate Republicans to pass the Better Care Reconciliation Act, also known as Trumpcare, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) delivered remarks on the Floor of the House earlier this week. Below are Congresswoman Moore’s remarks: “I want to talk to you, Mr. Speaker, very directly. We’ve talked a lot about the 22-23 million people who will lose their healthcare if we were to repeal and replace Obamacare. But the Senate healthcare bill goes deeper than this. It undermines the Medicaid program—a program that would be 52 years old on July 30, if it survives. “Right now, Mr. Speaker, there are 70 million people who rely on Medicaid. Let me tell you right now, Mr. Speaker, one of those people could be you. The average age of the member of the House of Representatives is 57. The average age of a Senator is 61. So, Mr. Speaker, you are one stroke away, one heart attack away from becoming disabled. After they wipe out your IRA, your pension, and your social security, you too, Mr. Speaker, could end up relying on Medicaid to have a decent end of life experience or be able to stay at home. You’re one kidney failure away, one car accident away, even though you make $179,000 a year. Mr. Speaker, if you were to have a disabled child who needed extensive care, you wouldn’t have enough money. You would depend on the Medicaid program. “Many people don’t care about what’s going on here. They think it couldn’t happen to them. Most people think the 70 million people who rely on Medicaid are people other than them. But no Mr. Speaker, it’s you. And even if you don’t – God willing – have a stroke or a heart attack, you’re someone who will suffer from the cost shifting. When 22 million people lose their health care, your premiums are going to go up. Your deductibles are going to go up. “God forbid that you have arthritis or another pre-existing condition, because under this bill, you’ll be left at the tender mercies of our insurance companies where they can charge five times as much for seniors or someone who has a pre-existing condition. Hospitals in your nice suburban, rural area may find themselves being shut down because they don’t get Medicaid payments. Community health centers included, not just Planned Parenthood, Mr. Speaker, but those community health centers that serve rural communities. “How cruel could a bill be where 50% of the children born in this country rely on Medicaid? How cruel could a bill be when there are seven million people with disabilities in this country? After we end the entitlement to Medicaid, we will have people with disabilities, children, and those who need skilled nursing care, fighting with each other. They will have to win the lottery in order to access the crumbs that fall from the master’s table. “Mr. Speaker, this bill will have an impact on you. It’s not just poor people, it’s everybody. All Americans, every American, relies on decent good healthcare. This is the largest healthcare program in our country that is about to be dismantled. I caution everyone, especially you, Mr. Speaker, to beware.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.19.2017	It has been 152 years since word of emancipation reached Texas, the last state in the union to free its slaves. Yet, in our country, those from communities of color are still subject to vestiges of slavery in the form of deeply rooted racism and discrimination. share: f t Washington, DC – In recognition of Juneteenth, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Today, on June 19, Americans celebrate the end of the horrific system of slavery in the United States. It has been 152 years since word of emancipation reached Texas, the last state in the union to free its slaves. Yet, in our country, those from communities of color are still subject to vestiges of slavery in the form of deeply rooted racism and discrimination. While it is essential to celebrate the progress we have made in making America a more equitable and just place to call home, it critical to continue to fight existing systems of oppression and injustice. “Days ago, St. Anthony Police Officer Jeronimo Yanez, who shot and killed Philano Castile, was acquitted of second-degree manslaughter charges. Unlike his victim, Officer Yanez was able to leave a courtroom and return home to his loved ones. The ongoing pattern of unconscionable police shootings sends a stark message to young Black children that law enforcement officials can kill them with utter impunity. However, despite setbacks, I remain deeply committed to addressing and fixing such inequality in our justice system with our local, state, and national partners. “I am proud of the progress we have made in the last 152 years. I am proud that Milwaukeeans marked this historic day with their 44th annual ‘Day of Jubilee’ parade. Most importantly, I am proud of the determination of my fellow Democratic colleagues in Congress to continue fighting with me so that no American has to feel the sting of oppression or disenfranchisement." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.15.2017	It is essential that the FHLB has the capacity necessary to continue its mission to make homeownership possible for my constituents in Wisconsin. share: f t Washington, DC — U.S Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI-04) and Randy Hultgren (R-IL-14) have introduced bipartisan legislation to strengthen the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) System by preserving access to mortgage credit and affordable housing assistance for millions of Americans. H.R. 2890, the Housing Opportunity Mortgage Expansion (HOME) Act, would restore the membership of lenders in the Federal Home Loan Bank System if they joined before the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) proposed its recently finalized membership rule and if they can demonstrate a commitment to residential mortgage activities. “It is essential that the FHLB has the capacity necessary to continue its mission to make homeownership possible for my constituents in Wisconsin,” said Rep. Moore. “The HOME Act recognizes that the Federal Home Loan Bank System is working, especially for my constituents in Illinois who are purchasing a home. It provides a reliable source of financing that community banks and credit unions in my community rely on for providing access to mortgage credit for families, not to mention its commitment to affordable housing through grant programs and down-payment assistance,” said Rep. Hultgren. “This legislation clarifies that companies with a history and mission of supporting residential housing should be able to continue to serve our communities.” “The Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is a key liquidity source and funding partner for many of our community bank and thrift members in Illinois. However, a regulation implemented last year requires it to terminate the memberships of two of its largest borrowers. As a result, the size and scope of its activities could be reduced significantly, impacting its ability to assist its remaining members and the communities they serve.” – Linda Koch, President and CEO, Illinois Bankers Association “Funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is used every day by community banks and thrifts to make homeownership a reality for their Illinois customers or lower the cost of their current mortgage through refinancing.” – Erich Bloxdorf, President and CEO, Illinois League of Financial Institutions “The Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago is a key liquidity source and funding partner for many of our credit union members in Illinois. Member banks also use FHLB Chicago funds to make small business, agriculture and agribusiness loans, which support job creation and family farming throughout our state.” – Thomas Kane, President and CEO, Illinois Credit Union League “The participation of larger financial institution members in the FHLBs enhances the value to members of all sizes, particularly smaller member banks and thrifts which often have limited or no direct access to the capital markets other than through their FHLB.” – David Schroeder, Vice President of Federal Government Relations, Community Bankers Association of Illinois BackgroundOn January 12, 2016, Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) adopted a final rule which restricts FHLB membership eligibility. The final rule, defines "insurance company" to exclude so-called "captive insurers.” The final rule, therefore, prohibits membership through a captive insurer. The rule allows FHLB captive insurer members that joined prior to FHFA's proposed rule up to five years to terminate their membership and those that joined after issuance of the proposed rule up to one year to terminate. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.14.2017	Today's senseless shooting wasn't just an assault on our Republican colleagues, but an attack on our country and the United States Congress. share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to the shooting at the Republican baseball practice this morning, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Today’s senseless shooting wasn’t just an assault on our Republican colleagues, but an attack on our country and the United States Congress. While this act of malice has shaken all of us to our core, such cruelty and cowardice will never deter the House of Representatives from continuing our collective mission to serve our constituents and our districts. “As we send our love and support to those involved, let us acknowledge the heroes that have emerged from this tragic incident, from the first responders and the brave men and women of the Capitol Police to the bystanders who called 9-1-1 and the members of Congress who sprung to action to save lives. Their valor in the face of danger deserves nothing short of our upmost praise and gratitude. “I have no illusion as to how politically divided we are. Yet, every day in Congress, Democrats and Republicans work together. We govern together. When one of us is attacked, we grieve together. And I have full confidence that together, we will be able to heal, support one another, and weather this storm.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.12.2017	The American public needs much more than President Trump's broken promises. They need a bipartisan-led direct public investment in our nation's crumbling infrastructure and that's what I will continue to fight for in Congress. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to the announcement of President Donald Trump’s infrastructure proposal, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “It doesn’t take a policy expert to recognize President Donald Trump’s failure to offer a sensible plan to address our deteriorating infrastructure during his so-called ‘Infrastructure Week.’ Rather than submitting a practical plan of action, the president advocated for a host of massive tax breaks to billionaires, representing yet another broken promise to hard-working Americans who were assured an economy that works for everyone. “Wisconsinites are no strangers to infrastructure problems. In our state, driving on roads in need of repair costs each driver $637 every year, drinking water needs are estimated to be as high as $1 billion, high hazard ratings have been given to 157 dams, and 8.7% of bridges are rated structurally deficient. With both President Trump and Governor Scott Walker willfully ignoring such critical issues, 50 of my congressional colleagues and I have signed onto the Millions of Jobs Coalition’s Congressional Resolution, calling for a real infrastructure plan that prioritizes clean job creation, public investment, and racial and gender equality. “Every legislative effort of this administration appears to underscore its commitment to looking good rather than doing good, from its push to privatize Air Traffic Control to a federal budget that only provides for a $200 billion infrastructure investment, far short from the $1 trillion-dollar investment promised months earlier. By cutting the Highway Trust Fund by $96 billion and eliminating TIGER grants – which have provided billions in transportation grants across the nation – the president has made it abundantly clear that working- and middle-class Americans were sold a bill of goods during his campaign for the White House. “The American public needs much more than President Trump’s broken promises. They need a bipartisan-led direct public investment in our nation’s crumbling infrastructure and that’s what I will continue to fight for in Congress.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.09.2017	Only months into his first term, the president has withdrawn civil protections and rights for over 1.4 million transgender Americans, erased LGBT identifications from data collection, and appointed several outspoken anti-LGBT personnel to key positions to his administration. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In recognition of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “As a proud member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, I recognize the great strides we’ve made during the Obama Administration in securing equality for all Americans, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. Yet, as President Donald Trump has demonstrated during his short tenure, such progress is fragile and susceptible to attack, underscoring the need for us to remain vigilant and visible. “President Trump has made no illusions regarding his indifference to our shared struggle for LGBT equality. Only months into his first term, the president has withdrawn civil protections and rights for over 1.4 million transgender Americans, erased LGBT identifications from data collection, and appointed several outspoken anti-LGBT personnel to key positions to his administration. And just this week, rather than acknowledging LGBT Pride Month, President Trump decided to address anti-LGBT leaders at the conservative Road to Majority conference. “I refuse to sit on the sidelines as the president and his party wage their ideological war on the LGBT community. Earlier this year, I co-sponsored numerous legislative efforts aimed at establishing new protections for sexuality and gender identity, including the Voices for Veterans Act, a bill that would expand the membership of the Advisory Committee on Minority Veterans to include LGBT veterans. Knowing that our fight for equality must extend beyond our own borders, I recently joined 50 of my congressional colleagues in calling on Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to condemn the detention, torture, and murders of gay and bisexual men in Chechnya. “Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle must come together to fight prejudice and discrimination locally, nationally, and globally. Let us use LGBT Pride Month as a call to action to every American to acknowledge our own freedoms and recognize that when everyone is treated as equal, only then can we truly be free.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.08.2017	The demands of constituents across America for transparency and accountability have been ignored by this White House. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to former FBI Director James Comey's testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, James Comey was able to shed light on the president’s deception while highlighting the absence of credibility from this White House. However, his testimony — albeit candid and informative — leaves my constituents with a host of unanswered questions regarding both President Trump’s campaign and the Trump administration’s ties to Russia. “As dark clouds continue to cast shadows on the Trump Administration, I find myself taken aback by the GOP’s outright refusal to hold the president accountable for his misconduct. Such an abdication of leadership by Speaker Paul Ryan and his Republican colleagues only serves to compound the damage President Trump has inflicted on our democracy and further erodes our standing in the global community. “The demands of constituents across America for transparency and accountability have been ignored by this White House. Now, more than ever, our country needs an outside independent commission to determine the full extent of Russia’s interference in our democratic process. Make no mistake: Our national security hangs in the balance.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
06.01.2017	Today's ill-advised action by the president demonstrates his a s insistence on putting the wishes of his fringe supporters above all else. The Paris accord represent strong commitment to securing our planet for future generations. Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to President Donald Trump’s decision to pull the United States out of the Paris climate agreement, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord – a landmark multinational agreement between 195 nations – is the latest salvo from an administration known for its anti-science and anti-environment agenda. This misguided action signifies a direct threat to our national security, our public health, and our country’s economic growth. “This historic pact not only strengthens the green economy, but it also encourages innovation from companies large and small. Although he claims to be pro-business, President Trump’s blatant disregard for this significant accord ignores the leadership shown by a diverse contingent of Fortune 500 companies like Apple, General Mills, and General Electric – all of whom support our continued membership in the agreement. “Today’s ill-advised action by the president demonstrates his insistence on putting the wishes of his fringe supporters above all else. The Paris accord represents a strong commitment to securing our planet for future generations. I call on all Americans to speak out against such a dangerous move and encourage the president to reconsider this careless decision.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.24.2017	It is clear Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke lacks the temperament and sound judgment required to effectively liaise with local law enforcement on matters of national security. share: f t Washington, D.C. – 55 Members of Congress, led by Reps. Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Norma J. Torres (D-CA) sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly urging him to reject the appointment of Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke as assistant secretary in the Office of Partnership and Engagement at the Department of Homeland Security. “It is clear Milwaukee County Sheriff David Clarke lacks the temperament and sound judgment required to effectively liaise with local law enforcement on matters of national security,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “The notion that Clarke — an elected official who continually abuses the power of his office and whose gross negligence contributed to numerous deaths in the jail he manages — is being considered for a position at the Department of Homeland Security should elicit profound concern from every American. We must not allow President Trump to reward Clarke’s ineptitude and inflammatory antics with a job in the federal government. A position of such importance demands a sensible and competent candidate, not a professional partisan agitator who prioritizes politics over his constituents’ safety.” Clarke has claimed to be appointed to this assistant secretary position, which does not require Senate confirmation, though no official announcement has been made. He rose to national prominence as a speaker at the 2016 Republican National Convention and has been a vocal supporter of President Trump. Clarke has a history of controversial statements against the Black Lives Matter movement, Democrats, Planned Parenthood, and gun control. He was also successfully sued by a police union in 2007 for religious proselytizing, and has faced a series of lawsuits in response to allegations of mistreatment of pregnant inmates as well as multiple deaths in the Milwaukee County jail. “There could be nobody less suited for this position than Sheriff David Clarke,” said Rep. Norma J. Torres. “The assistant secretary position in the Office of Partnership and Engagement is responsible for building relationships and working closely with diverse communities to prepare for and respond to national emergencies. His history of inflammatory statements and outright disdain for the communities he represents make him completely unqualified for this vital position.” The full text of the letter and list of cosigners can be found below. A pdf can be found HERE. May 23, 2017 The Honorable John KellySecretary of Homeland SecurityDepartment of Homeland Security245 Murray Lane SWWashington, DC 20528-0075 Dear Secretary Kelly, We urge you to reject the potential appointment of Sheriff Clarke as assistant secretary in the Office of Partnership and Engagement at the Department of Homeland Security. Unlike the two previous holders of this position, Sheriff Clarke lacks the Homeland Security experience necessary to carry out the outreach and public engagement role of this position. Most alarming perhaps is that this position is integral to public safety and working with all communities to prepare for and to respond to serious homeland security emergencies. The Office of Partnership and Engagement is tasked with working with state and local governments, and doing private sector outreach with business and tourism offices to ensure the federal government is most effective in preventing harm to Americans. While the assistant secretary in the Office of Partnership and Engagement must work with public officials of all political stripes from around the country, Sheriff Clarke has repeatedly shown a lack of openness to working with differing viewpoints. According to Sheriff Clarke: “When I hear people say that we need to reach across the aisle and work with people, with the Democrats, you know what I say? The only reason I’ll be reaching across the aisle is to grab one of them by the throat.” As Members of Congress representing diverse districts across the country, we are alarmed and concerned that coordination with agencies such as FEMA – which our constituents count on in greatest times of need – could be led by a figure who has shown himself to be unwilling or unable to effectively work with others. This is not a political role and should not be filled by someone who has such strong views against specific communities in the United States. We appreciate your attention to this request and your leadership in ensuring that DHS fulfills the agency’s most basic role providing assistance to our communities during major emergencies. Sincerely, Rep. Norma J. TorresRep. Gwen MooreRep. G.K. ButterfieldRep. Val Bulter DemingsRep. Alcee L. HastingsRep. Betty McCollumRep. Rick LarsenRep. Tony CárdenasRep. Juan VargasRep. Pramila JayapalRep. Danny K. DavisRep. Albio SiresRep. Wm. Lacy ClayRep. Bobby L. RushRep. Eleanor Holmes NortonRep. Bonnie Watson ColemanRep. Grace F. NapolitanoRep. Yvette D. ClarkeRep. James P. McGovernRep. Mark PocanRep. Raúl M. GrijalvaRep. Nanette Díaz BarragánRep. Rep. Karen BassRep. David N. CicillineRep. David ScottRep. Joseph CrowleyRep. Anthony G. BrownRep. Gene GreenRep. John GaramendiRep. Eddie Bernice JohnsonRep. Dina TitusRep. Gerald E. ConnollyRep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. John Conyers, Jr.Rep. Donald M. Payne, Jr.Rep. Al Lawson, Jr.Rep. Adriano EspaillatRep. Frank Pallone, Jr.Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Suzanne BonamiciRep. Katherine M. ClarkRep. Sheila Jackson LeeRep. Jamie Raskin Rep. Lois FrankelRep. Barbara LeeRep. Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr.Rep. Ruben GallegoRep. Marc A. VeaseyRep. Hakeem S. JeffriesRep. Steve CohenRep. James E. ClyburnRep. Colleen HanabusaRep. Dwight Evans Rep. Emanuel CleaverRep. Donald Norcross ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.23.2017	While it is clear that our nation's most vulnerable will bear the brunt of this vicious proposal, no one – regardless of ideology, socioeconomic background, or political affiliation – will be immune to its devastating impact. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the release of the Trump Administration’s full FY 2018 budget, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I am utterly aghast by the flagrant contempt for the welfare of working- and middle class Americans exhibited in President Donald Trump’s full FY 2018 budget. The outrageous funding cuts outlined in the president’s budget walk the line between ignorance and indifference while disregarding the needs of seniors, families, and children with disabilities. “While it is clear that our nation’s most vulnerable will bear the brunt of this vicious proposal, no one – regardless of ideology, socioeconomic background, or political affiliation – will be immune to its devastating impact. With this budget, the president has shifted his war against the poor to a war against the people, aiming his sights on a series of bipartisan initiatives designed to support all Americans and improve the health and economic well-being of our nation. “Our shared fight against cancer and life-threatening diseases will suffer in the face of billion dollar cuts to the National Institutes of Health. Our collective efforts to support America’s rural and urban communities will be hindered as we gut infrastructure projects and eliminate Community Development and Service Block Grants. And our common goal of creating new career opportunities for those who do not have the means to retire will erode as President Trump dismantles critical skills training programs for today’s modern economy. “As a former welfare recipient, I simply cannot support such a misguided and cruel budget that targets Medicaid, Social Security Disability Insurance, and those trying to escape the chains of poverty. But as Americans, we should all be alarmed by the scope of the damage that will undoubtedly result because of the president’s proposal. I urge both my Democratic colleagues and those across the aisle to forcefully oppose this budget and put the concerns of the people before those of their party.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.17.2017	Today, I eagerly joined a discharge petition filed by House Democrats to force a vote on legislation to create an independent commission to investigate President Trump's links to Russia. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the recent revelations surrounding President Donald Trump’s disclosure of classified information to Russian officials, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, I eagerly joined a discharge petition filed by House Democrats to force a vote on legislation to create an independent commission to investigate President Trump’s links to Russia. This bill has thus far been blocked by Speaker Paul Ryan and his Republican colleagues seven times, despite bipartisan outcries from constituents across the ideological spectrum. “The termination of FBI Director James Comey sent shockwaves throughout my district and prompted numerous calls from outraged Milwaukee residents. They, like 78 percent of Americans, want an independent investigation into the Trump Administration’s ties to Vladimir Putin and the abrupt removal of Director Comey. Yet, Republicans continue to obstruct our attempts at pursuing the transparency and accountability our constituents demand and deserve on this urgent matter. “As we move forward without the support of our colleagues across the aisle, I urge every Member of Congress to help us uncover the truth regarding the Kremlin’s influence on the White House. The time has come for Speaker Ryan and his colleagues to prioritize being Americans above being Republicans. The risks to our national security are far too great to put party politics before the people who elected us to represent them.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.10.2017	These egregious actions lead me to believe the President of the United States is actively involved in a cover-up of unprecedented proportions. Such malfeasance demands the creation of an independent, bipartisan commission to shed light on Russian influence over the president and his administration. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “As more details emerge regarding the timing of Director James Comey’s removal, it is clear to me that the president will stop at nothing to prevent the truth from emerging about his connection to the Vladimir Putin regime. Despite strong bipartisan consensus regarding Russia’s interference in the presidential election, President Trump remains undeterred in his effort to divert our country’s collective focus away from this fundamental matter of national security. “The idea that President Trump fired Director Comey because of his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation would be laughable if it wasn’t so ludicrous. The validity of the president’s justification is further compromised after learning that just two days ago, Director Comey requested more funding and resources from the Justice Department to aid the FBI in investing Russian interference in the presidential election. “The president’s desperation to stymie the investigation into his ties with Russia have become increasingly clear, especially in the wake of Director Comey’s removal only 48 hours before he was set to testify in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee in an open hearing. These egregious actions lead me to believe the President of the United States is actively involved in a cover-up of unprecedented proportions. Such malfeasance demands the creation of an independent, bipartisan commission to shed light on Russian influence over the president and his administration.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
05.04.2017	Not only will this deeply flawed and misguided tax giveaway disguised as a health care bill have a crushing impact on people with pre-existing conditions who will face both higher premiums and deductibles, but it also threatens those with employer-based plans, as well as children and adults with disabilities. Put simply, no one is safe from the fallout of this catastrophe in the making. share: f t Washington, D.C. — Following the passage of the American Health Care Act in the House, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, I emphatically voted against Trumpcare because it is quite simply a matter of life or death for my constituents. The passage of this legislative abomination underscores the depths of Republicans’ indifference to the 24 million Americans who will lose their coverage and the 14 million Americans who will be kicked off of Medicaid. Not only will this deeply flawed and misguided tax giveaway disguised as a health care bill have a crushing impact on people with pre-existing conditions who will face both higher premiums and deductibles, but it also threatens those with employer-based plans, as well as children and adults with disabilities. Put simply, no one is safe from the fallout of this catastrophe in the making. “I am particularly appalled that President Trump and my Republican colleagues have proven all too willing to turn their backs on our country’s women by endangering their maternity and prenatal care and allowing insurers to deny preventive health care services like mammograms and gynecological exams. Under Trumpcare, conditions like postpartum depression and being a victim of domestic violence or sexual assault could be considered pre-existing conditions, and women in uniform will be at risk as millions of veterans and their families will face a multitude of barriers in seeking care. “Now, I look to my colleagues in the Senate to be guided by the pleas of their constituents who have voiced their strident opposition to this disastrous bill. I sincerely hope they listen to the cancer survivors and the children living with chronic illnesses who now fear for their lives due to this unconscionable Republican effort. For their sake, I hope those in the upper chamber will use the commonsense and empathy that is severely lacking across the aisle in the House. The lives of all our constituents are on the line.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
04.26.2017	I am more than willing to engage with my colleagues across the aisle, but I simply cannot support tax reform that so blatantly favors the wealthiest individuals and entities in our country while completely ignoring the rest of us. share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to the release of the Trump Administration’s 2017 Tax Proposal, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “The Trump Administration’s long-awaited outline for tax reform highlights the president’s allegiance to special interests and the super wealthy through massive tax cuts for powerful corporations. Despite claims from the White House’s Chief Economic Advisor that such a proposal will stimulate growth and create jobs, it is clear that the only result of this plan will be a steep increase in our country’s deficit while leaving working- and middle class families in the dust. “We’ve seen these bad ideas before and the reality never matches the rhetoric. Recently, Kansas implemented comparable business tax ideas, and the outcome was a stagnant economy, a downgraded credit rating, and a fiscal crisis that will plague the state for generations to come. “President Trump is also proposing a ‘tax holiday’ for businesses, to bring money back to the U.S. that has been kept sheltered overseas. President George W. Bush implemented the same idea in 2004, but it failed miserably in creating economic growth. There was no investment in employees, infrastructure, or expansion; rather, the special tax rates were used to enrich corporate shareholders. “The president’s tax outline fails to address any safeguards to stop abusive corporate practices like earnings stripping, transfer pricing, or corporate inversions. Put simply, this effort clears the way for corporations to abuse wide-open tax loopholes. I am more than willing to engage with my colleagues across the aisle, but I simply cannot support tax reform that so blatantly favors the wealthiest individuals and entities in our country while completely ignoring the rest of us.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.24.2017	The defeat of the American Health Care Act underscores the power of civic participation. This decision not only represents a victory for the seniors, children, and working- and middle-class Americans who otherwise would have lost their health coverage, but for everyone who exercised their civic duty in opposing such a misguided and dangerous proposal." share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to the decision by House Republican leadership to pull the American Health Care Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, after days of Republican infighting, Speaker Paul Ryan moved to withdraw his Affordable Care Act replacement bill from consideration. The defeat of the American Health Care Act underscores the power of civic participation. This decision not only represents a victory for the seniors, children, and working- and middle-class Americans who otherwise would have lost their health coverage, but for everyone who exercised their civic duty in opposing such a misguided and dangerous proposal. “Americans from across the political divide inundated congressional offices with their messages of support for the very provisions that make the Affordable Care Act so vital including free preventive services to all women and ending insurance denials based on pre-existing conditions. Today’s extraordinary events prove that their words did not fall on deaf ears and that democracy truly works when you work it. “As we take a moment to acknowledge the success of our shared determination and resolve, let us recognize that this fight is far from over. I have no doubt that congressional Republicans and President Trump will stop at nothing to dismantle the progress achieved during President Obama’s tenure using the levers of the administration to undermine his landmark legislation. With this reality in mind, I call on every American to remain vigilant and engaged. Our lives quite literally depend on it.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.23.2017	Despite my trepidation about meeting with a man who consistently displays disdain and ignorance toward minorities, I saw this meeting as an opportunity to educate President Trump on the unique obstacles and experiences African-Americans face every day in this country. share: f t Washington D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) executive committee met with President Donald Trump at the White House to discuss issues impacting African-American communities. In response to the meeting, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “In his efforts to court Black voters during the 2016 campaign, President Trump asked communities of color the following question: ‘What the hell do you have to lose?’ Yesterday, my fellow CBC executive committee colleagues and I went to the White House to meet with the president and deliver that answer in person. Despite my trepidation about meeting with a man who consistently displays disdain and ignorance toward minorities, I saw this meeting as an opportunity to educate President Trump on the unique obstacles and experiences African-Americans face every day in this country. “We met with President Trump to express our concerns over a disturbing trend of disregard for our communities and to convey our collective alarm over his proposed budget and policy agenda. I entered the meeting with a healthy dose of skepticism and left the White House with a sense of cautious optimism, but only time will tell if the president and his advisors are willing to take action on our recommendations. For the sake of every constituent who is far too familiar with the sting of racism and discrimination, living in communities that are underserved and overpoliced, I truly hope our words didn’t fall on deaf ears. “While accepting the president’s invitation to meet with him might offend some of my supporters, I want to remind them that by no means will I back down in my pursuit to resist President Trump, his administration, and the policies that hinder African-Americans from reaching their potential and realizing their dreams. My commitment to advancing the interests of my constituents has always been and will always be my top priority.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.20.2017	Concerns over President Trump's ongoing reluctance to clarify his administration's connection to Russian officials reach far across the partisan divide. share: f t Washington D.C. — In response to FBI Director James Comey’s testimony to the the House Intelligence Committee about investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 election, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, FBI Director James Comey confirmed his agency was actively investigating efforts by President Vladimir Putin’s regime to disrupt the 2016 presidential election, as well as links between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Such revelations not only underscore the imperative for a thorough investigation conducted by a special prosecutor, but also emphasize the need for transparency in regards to the president’s foreign financial ties and business dealings. “Concerns over President Trump’s ongoing reluctance to clarify his administration’s connection to Russian officials reach far across the partisan divide. Both Democrats and Republicans in the House of Representatives have heard from their constituents who are rightfully frustrated over the lack of accountability in such an urgent matter. As I’ve said before, the administration needs to remove U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions from his position and appoint a special prosecutor immediately.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.16.2017	This budget is symptomatic of an administration with total disregard for our most vulnerable, especially as students in poverty lose out on opportunities for higher education, communities of color suffer the loss of development grants, and working-class families go without the energy assistance programs that keep them warm during the coldest of seasons. share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to the release of the Trump Administration’s FY2018 Budget Blueprint, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Since the moment he assumed the Office of the President, Donald Trump has deliberately courted the most extreme elements of the alt-right and conservative movements through cavalier assurances to wreak havoc on government agencies and initiatives without regard for the consequences. He vowed to address the most pressing issues facing communities across the country. Instead, he is dismantling the progress made over the past eight years. To date, his administration has targeted the Environmental Protection Agency, Wall Street regulators, and the safety net programs intended to help people in need. Today, we saw the next dangerous step in his misguided agenda. “The release of the Trump Administration’s Fiscal Year 2018 Budget has already prompted numerous calls of concern from my constituents. Not only do they see the harm inherent in this proposal, but they fear for their families’ future in the face of such extreme funding cuts. They recognize that the taxpayer dollars at risk help them secure a roof over their heads, provide women in poverty with access to health care services from Planned Parenthood, and ensure future generations can enjoy Lake Michigan — one of our district’s most prized natural resources. Even our senior citizens may lose out, as the funding supporting the Meals on Wheels program is gutted. “This budget is symptomatic of an administration with total disregard for our most vulnerable, especially as students in poverty lose out on opportunities for higher education, communities of color suffer the loss of development grants, and working-class families go without the energy assistance programs that keep them warm during the coldest of seasons. Fighting these cutbacks will not be easy, but if we work together, we can enact a budget that protects these programs and provides economic opportunities and healthy outcomes for all Americans.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.15.2017	My constituents have flooded both my Milwaukee and D.C. offices with phone calls expressing concern about the direction of the country. I look forward to the opportunity to engage in a constructive dialogue with the residents of the 4th Congressional District during this tumultuous time. share: f t Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, March 18th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will meet with constituents to hear their thoughts and concerns regarding local and federal policy issues. The Congressional Café session is available for the communities and constituents within the 4th congressional district. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee district office at (414) 297-1140. WHAT: Southside Congressional Café WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen MooreAmerican Civil Liberties Union of Wisconsin (ACLU)Citizen Action of WisconsinState Representative JoCasta Zamirripa WHEN: Saturday, March 18th, 2017 10:30am – 11:30am CT WHERE: Ascension Lutheran Church1236 S. Layton Blvd. Milwaukee, WI, 53215 WHAT: Northside Congressional Café WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen MooreAmerican Civil Liberties Union of Wisconsin (ACLU)ASHA Family ServicesWisconsin Black Health CoalitionLegal Action of Wisconsin WHEN: Saturday, March 18th, 2017 1:00pm – 2:30pm CT WHERE: African American Women’s Center3020 W. Vliet StreetMilwaukee, WI, 53208 ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.09.2017	To ensure President Trump doesn't saddle the financial burden of his misguided campaign promise on the backs of those struggling to get by, I recently introduced The No Taxpayer Funding for the Wall Act of 2017. My legislation holds the president to his word to have the government of Mexico fund his border wall and prevents him and congressional Republicans from using money for vital services like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and Violence Against Women Act grants to fund this absurd plan. share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to President Donald Trump’s plan to erect a wall along our southern border with Mexico, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced the No Taxpayer Funding for the Wall Act of 2017, legislation prohibiting the use of any federal funds for the wall’s construction. Following the introduction of this bill, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “Recently, House Speaker Paul Ryan sparked a firestorm of opposition from constituents across the ideological spectrum when he made it clear Congress would rely on American taxpayers to ‘front the money up’ for the construction of a border wall with Mexico. As alarming as this comment was, it became even more disturbing today as Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell candidly acknowledged that he didn’t believe Mexico would reimburse the United States for the Southern border wall. As this signature policy platform of President Trump swiftly unravels, I see both a moral and fiscal imperative to shield my constituents and the programs they depend on from footing the bill for this costly proposal. “To ensure President Trump doesn’t saddle the financial burden of his misguided campaign promise on the backs of those struggling to get by, I recently introduced the No Taxpayer Funding for the Wall Act of 2017. My legislation holds the president to his word to have the government of Mexico fund his border wall and prevents him and congressional Republicans from using money for vital services like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program and Violence Against Women Act grants to fund this absurd plan. “As a proud member of the opposition party, I have no illusions as to our current political reality in the House of Representatives. If Republicans capitulate to President Trump, a wall will indeed be built. But if this ludicrous proposal does come to fruition, I will do everything in my power as a member of Congress to protect my constituents from the financial fallout. I call on both Democrats and Republicans to join me in my effort by supporting this commonsense legislation.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.07.2017	The Republican plan to repeal and replace the ACA not only destroys the progress achieved during President Obama's tenure, but it also manufactures new health care crises that will have a devastating impact on seniors, women, and working- and middle-class Americans. share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to the release of the Republican bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “The Affordable Care Act (ACA) – President Barack Obama’s landmark health care reform bill – was crafted and made into law as an effort to repair America’s woefully inadequate health system. It made incredible strides in addressing the gaps in our country’s health care infrastructure, from barring insurance companies from denying coverage to those with preexisting conditions to ending deductibles and co-pays on preventive services such as mammograms, immunizations, and pre-natal care. “The Republican plan to repeal and replace the ACA not only destroys the progress achieved during President Obama’s tenure, but it also manufactures new health care crises that will have a devastating impact on seniors, women, and working- and middle-class Americans. This bill is a self-inflicted wound that will exacerbate costs, limit protections, and hurt the 70 million Americans who rely on Medicaid, including pregnant women and vulnerable children. But low-income Americans aren’t the only ones who will bear the financial brunt of such corrosive legislation. It is important to recognize that everyone – regardless of their socioeconomic background – will foot the bill for this misguided proposal. “I am particularly disturbed by the effect this legislation will have on women’s health. In addition to defunding Planned Parenthood – a vital health care organization that many of my constituents depend on – this bill also aims to dismantle the private insurance market for abortion coverage, a procedure that, out of pocket, can cost tens of thousands of dollars. As this legislation moves through the House of Representatives, rest assured I will be voicing my strident opposition to it and any proposal that values politics over patients.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
03.02.2017	The American people demand and deserve unequivocal certainty about President Trump's relationship with the Kremlin, including his financial ties and business dealings. If the president is unwilling to meet such concern with a transparent investigation conducted by a special prosecutor, I believe it would be appropriate for the House of Representatives to move forward with impeachment proceedings. share: f t Washington D.C. – Amid reports that U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions failed to disclose his contact with Russian officials when asked under oath during his confirmation process, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “It is clear to me, and countless others, that the Trump administration has been compromised by their dealings with the Russian government. I do not believe U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has the credibility nor the moral authority to serve as our country’s top law enforcement official, and I call on him to be removed from his post immediately. “My constituents and I continue to be alarmed by the Trump administration’s reluctance to be forthright about their connection to President Vladimir Putin’s regime. The American people demand and deserve unequivocal certainty about President Trump’s relationship with the Kremlin, including his financial ties and business dealings. If the president is unwilling to meet such concern with a transparent investigation conducted by a special prosecutor, I believe it would be appropriate for the House of Representatives to move forward with impeachment proceedings.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.28.2017	I find it incredulous that President Trump could claim a commitment to national security while failing to even mention how we will protect our nation's women and daughters, especially when an average of three women are killed by a current or former partner every day in our country. share: f t Washington D.C. — In response to President Donald Trump’s first joint address to Congress, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “The theme of tonight’s joint address to Congress —the ‘renewal of American spirit’ — felt painfully hollow as the only renewal I’ve seen since President Trump took office is a pernicious wave of nationalism, racism, misogyny, and antisemitism. Rather than detailing a plan to quell the violence and vandalism perpetrated by those who feel emboldened by his actions, President Trump touted his own perceived success while feigning concern for bipartisanship and unity. “Much like his campaign, President Trump’s speech emphasized flash over substance, failing to provide tangible policy proposals to match his boasts and taking credit for the success of President Barack Obama. I found the president’s words empty and indicative of a weak person's idea of what strength looks like. Not only did he fail to mention the fate of critical social safety programs that will undoubtedly suffer in the face of the president’s military spending increase, but it was also clear that vital issues like gender-based violence simply weren’t a concern of his administration. “I find it incredulous that President Trump could claim a commitment to national security while failing to even mention how we will protect our nation’s women and daughters, especially when an average of three women are killed by a current or former partner every day in our country. Fortunately, Deborah Parker was by my side tonight as my guest to help stress our shared moral imperative to safeguard our nation’s most vulnerable. Deborah was instrumental in helping me reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in 2013 to include critical provisions for Native American women and girls. With VAWA grant funding in jeopardy of being eliminated by the Trump administration, Deborah’s unique voice and steadfast advocacy is needed now more than ever." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.23.2017	My constituents have flooded both my Milwaukee and D.C. offices with phone calls expressing concern about the direction of the country. I look forward to the opportunity to engage in a constructive dialogue with the residents of the 4th Congressional District during this tumultuous time. share: f t Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, March 4th, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) will meet with constituents to hear their thoughts and concerns regarding local and federal policy issues. “My constituents have flooded both my Milwaukee and D.C. offices with phone calls expressing concern about the direction of the country,” said Congresswoman Moore. “I look forward to the opportunity to engage in a constructive dialogue with the residents of the 4th Congressional District during this tumultuous time.” The Congressional Café session is available for the communities and constituents within the 4th congressional district. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee district office at (414) 297-1140. WHAT: Congressional Café WHO: U.S. Congresswoman Gwen MooreGlendale Mayor Bryan KennedyState Senator Lena TaylorState Representative Jason Fields County Supervisor Theo Lipscomb WHEN: Saturday, March 4th, 2017 10:30am – 11:30am CT WHERE: NorthShore Library6800 N. Port Washington Road Glendale, WI 53217 NOTE: Below, please find dates and locations for future Congressional Cafés. Updated information will be provided as it becomes available. Southside Congressional Café Location: Ascension LutheranDate: Saturday, March 18th, 2017Time: 10:30am CT Northside Congressional CaféLocation: TBDDate: Saturday, March 18th, 2017Time: 1:00pm CT ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.23.2017	During Black History Month, we honor the vital contributions African Americans have made to our nation's history and identity. However, we must not be limited to a month in learning about those who made extraordinary sacrifices in pursuit of America's promise of freedom and •justice for all.' share: f t Milwaukee, WI – As Black History Month concludes, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Since taking office, President Donald Trump and senior administration officials have made a series of peculiar, empty, and often tone-deaf comments about influential African Americans that left my constituents and I perplexed and frustrated. Such a unique brand of thoughtlessness is a call to action to continue our collective education about the African Americans who helped write our country’s story.” “During Black History Month, we honor the vital contributions African Americans have made to our nation’s history and identity. However, we must not be limited to a month in learning about those who made extraordinary sacrifices in pursuit of America’s promise of freedom and ‘justice for all.’ As this month of observance and reflection draws to a close, I implore all Americans, regardless of their racial or ethnic backgrounds, to embrace our shared past and look toward the future with understanding and tolerance." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
02.15.2017	This is personal for me as the alleged hazard zones outlined in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Watchdog Report fall in heavily residential neighborhoods. In fact, my family and I live less than a mile away from one of the alleged hazard zones. Such allegations demand our immediate attention and a thorough investigation. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to a Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Watchdog Report alleging numerous workplace safety problems and environmental regulatory violations with facilities operated by Greif Inc., Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in its role as a regulatory body has often been seen as a political lightning rod for Republicans, leading to efforts to strip the EPA of its authority. But as reports surface about Greif Inc. – a multi-national company with three locations in my district – endangering constituents through the illegal disposal of hazardous waste, the imperative for a strong and responsive EPA becomes ever more apparent. "This is personal for me as the alleged hazard zones outlined in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Watchdog Report fall in heavily residential neighborhoods. In fact, my family and I live less than a mile away from one of the alleged hazard zones. Such allegations demand our immediate attention and a thorough investigation from both local and federal stakeholders. "As more information comes to light regarding these shocking allegations, my office will work with the appropriate authorities to not only ensure justice is served, but to also safeguard our neighborhoods against threats posed by corporate polluters. Senator Tammy Baldwin and I will urge federal agencies to investigate these recent reports as well as collaborate with local lawmakers, including Mayor Tom Barrett, to ensure our constituents have access to the relevant information necessary to address the potential environmental hazards that may face them and their loved ones." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
01.30.2017	As Americans exercise their constitutional right to protest President Trump's executive orders, I'll be in Washington with my House and Senate colleagues, working on policy solutions to address these concerns and protect our democracy from this administration's draconian efforts. Together, we will show President Trump and his supporters that America doesn't have to sacrifice our compassion and conscience for our security. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to President Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant and anti-refugee executive orders, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Like most of my constituents, I found President Donald Trump’s xenophobic executive orders targeting refugees, immigrants, and their families to be repulsive and in direct contradiction to the values that define our nation. Such abominable efforts have nothing to do with national security and everything to do with satisfying campaign promises to the alt-right movement. These anti-American actions have no place in our culture and are indicative of the overwhelming influence of nationalism that continues to permeate this administration and its policies. "To those who have reached out to ask what they can do to fight these intolerant and misguided policies: I implore you to raise your voices and stand up against this injustice. The men and women who sit in positions of power across our country must both hear and see your opposition, from their offices and town halls to their newsfeeds and inboxes. There can be no doubt in their mind as to your level of outrage and shame over President Trump’s unconscionable actions against vulnerable families escaping unimaginable danger. “As Americans exercise their constitutional right to protest President Trump’s executive orders, I’ll be in Washington with my House and Senate colleagues, working on policy solutions to address these concerns and protect our democracy from this administration’s draconian efforts. Together, we will show President Trump and his supporters that America doesn’t have to sacrifice our compassion and conscience for our security.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
01.18.2017	As a proud Democrat, I want President-elect Trump to see me front and center as he's sworn in. I want him to see exactly what his opposition looks like. When he sees me, I want him to see The Resistance. share: f t Milwaukee, WI – In response to questions regarding her attendance of the Presidential Inauguration of Donald Trump, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I support my colleagues in their decision to boycott the Presidential Inauguration, but knowing how he operates, I suspect President-elect Donald Trump will use this expression of free speech as an excuse to bypass Democrats and to push his extreme agenda with utter impunity. With that in mind, I refuse to be a pawn in the president-elect’s efforts to rally support from congressional Republicans. As a proud Democrat, I want President-elect Trump to see me front and center as he’s sworn in. I want him to see exactly what his opposition looks like. When he sees me, I want him to see The Resistance. “I did not come to this decision lightly. I weighed my responsibility as an elected official against my disgust over the president-elect's vile tactics employed to ascend to the presidency and the disrespectful treatment of revered civil rights icon Congressman John Lewis. I considered the multitude of supportive phone calls and tweets from my constituents in light of the embarrassing and ongoing petulance employed by the president-elect. I prayed on this and thought of First Lady Michelle Obama as she reminded us to refrain from abandoning decency in the face of intolerance and moral depravity. “It’s no secret that I find President-elect Trump and his policies repugnant and anathema to my efforts to pursue social justice, and I know a majority of my constituents feel the same. In November, Milwaukee sent a strong, clear message that Donald Trump was the wrong man to lead our country. I intend to deliver that message with my presence at the Presidential Inauguration and serve as a symbol of opposition, not normalization.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
01.13.2017	I can't help but to notice the symbolism inherent in Speaker Ryan's actions: When it comes to women's health and reproductive rights, Speaker Ryan's door is closed. share: f t Washington D.C. – In response to comments by Speaker Paul Ryan to defund Planned Parenthood as part of his plan to repeal the Affordable Care Act, a large group of volunteers visited the Speaker’s office last week to deliver nearly 90,000 petitions in opposition to the Republican-led effort. When the volunteers arrived at the Speaker Ryan’s office, they were met by Capitol Police and a locked door. With few options before them, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) opened her doors to these volunteers and offered to assist in the temporary storage and delivery of their petitions to Speaker Ryan. Congresswoman Moore and her staff created the following video depicting these events and underscoring her support for organizations like Planned Parenthood who serve her constituents and communities across the country: In addition to the video, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “I can’t help but to notice the symbolism inherent in Speaker Ryan’s actions: When it comes to women’s health and reproductive rights, Speaker Ryan’s door is closed. I, on the other hand, refuse to close my door on any organization committed to my constituents’ well-being. I look forward to meeting with Speaker Ryan to personally deliver these petitions so that the voices of the American public can be heard loud and clear.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
12.20.2016	For far too long, low-income, particularly women of color, have been disproportionately affected by the implementation of Hyde. Such blatant discrimination not only limits critical access to reproductive health services, but can also have a crushing impact on a woman's economic mobility. share: f t Washington, D.C. – This week, 105 Democratic members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter to President-elect Trump urging the elimination of the Hyde Amendment. Federal restrictions prevent millions of women, including low-income women, servicewomen, federal employees, Native American women and residents of Washington, D.C. from exercising their constitutional right to abortion care. The letter was led by Congresswoman Barbara Lee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky, Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. “For far too long, low-income, particularly women of color, have been disproportionately affected by the implementation of Hyde. Such blatant discrimination not only limits critical access to reproductive health services, but can also have a crushing impact on a woman’s economic mobility,” said Congresswoman Moore. “If President-elect Trump is serious about creating economic opportunities for the most vulnerable among us, it is imperative that we end this archaic policy and stop those who continue to restrict women from making their own personal reproductive decisions.” “It’s past time for Congress to end the discriminatory Hyde Amendment once and for all. With this letter, House Democrats are sending a clear message: we will not back down from defending women’s constitutional rights,” said Congresswoman Lee. “No woman should ever be denied reproductive health care because of how much she earns or the type of her insurance. The EACH Woman Act would end this discrimination and ensure that all women, including low-income women and women of color, can make the health care decisions that are best for them and their family.” Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky said, “The Hyde Amendment denies crucial health care coverage to women who serve in our military, work in our federal government, and join the Peace Corps, as well as those who depend on Medicaid and the Indian Health Service. All women, no matter their income level, zip code, health insurance plan, or career path should have access to the full range of reproductive health services, including abortion services. It is unacceptable that this constitutional right would be denied to women because Republican politicians refuse to allow them to make their own choices. It is time to get rid of the Hyde Amendment once and for all.” The letter calls on President-elect Trump to end decades of health care discrimination and adopt reproductive health care policies based in dignity and respect for women. The letter notes, “For too long, low-income women and women of color have shouldered the burden on our country’s restrictive reproductive health laws. Together, we ask that you send a strong signal that this will no longer be the legacy of the United States.” “We will hold President-Elect Trump accountable every step of the way as we protect access to women’s health care and the constitutionally-protected right to an abortion. The Hyde Amendment overwhelmingly affects low-income women and women of color, and we will not stand quietly by should the Trump Administration continue supporting this destructive and discriminatory amendment that denies them the coverage they need,” said Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz. “Over the last 40 years, the Hyde Amendment has been used to deny low income Americans Medicaid coverage of reproductive health care. Whether a woman has private or government funded health insurance, every woman, in concert with her family and doctor, should be able to make her own health decisions,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “We must promote and protect the rights of every woman to make her own family planning decisions, and to have access to a full range of healthcare services. The time to repeal the Hyde Amendment is now.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
12.16.2016	From his blind support for settlements in the West Bank and flagrant opposition to a two-state solution to his unconscionable and frighteningly causal use of holocaust imagery to vilify progressive American Jews, Mr. Friedman lacks the experience and temperament necessary to serve as our nation's ambassador to Israel. share: f t Washington, DC — In response to President-elect Donald Trump’s decision to choose David Friedman as his nominee for ambassador to Israel, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “The ambassador to Israel plays a vital role in every administration. Before taking on the position, both James Cunningham and Daniel Shapiro shared a combined 35 years of foreign policy experience. In contrast, David Friedman, President-elect Trump’s choice for the position, was his bankruptcy lawyer and lacks any foreign policy experience. “From his blind support for settlements in the West Bank and flagrant opposition to a two-state solution to his unconscionable and frighteningly casual use of holocaust imagery to vilify progressive American Jews, Mr. Friedman lacks the experience and temperament necessary to serve as our nation’s ambassador to Israel. “Now, more than ever, we need to work together with our partners abroad and at home to ensure the protection and survival of the Jewish State. I urge the president-elect to reconsider this appointment and instead focus on a qualified candidate who can work with all sides to stabilize the region.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
12.02.2016	Law enforcement should be able to maintain order without violence and without violating the rights of tribal members and other peaceful protestors. The Justice Department must help restore calm and ease tensions. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to concerns over the increasingly aggressive tactics being deployed against protestors of the Dakota Access Pipeline, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent the following letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch: The Honorable Loretta LynchAttorney GeneralU.S. Department of Justice Dear Attorney General Lynch, I write to share my concerns related to the ongoing protests of the Dakota Access Pipeline by the Standing Rock Tribe and its supporters. I am alarmed by the increasingly aggressive tactics being deployed against protestors including the use of armed vehicles, rubber bullets, and even water cannons in freezing temperatures. One media account noted that over 100 protestors were recently injured and other accounts have even higher numbers including one demonstrator who may have lost her arm according to credible media reports. As you know, the federal government is currently examining concerns raised by the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe about potential pipeline impacts on environmental and tribal resources. Many have joined the tribe to peacefully protest in North Dakota in the meantime. The disturbing reports and images of actions taken against protestors for exercising such a basic right raise troubling memories of the terrible tactics used during the turbulent struggle for civil rights equality in our country. I urge you to step in and work with state and local authorities to quickly de-escalate the situation, while ensuring that peaceful protestors can freely exercise those rights without fear. I cannot overemphasize the need for you to do everything in your power to work with both sides to ensure the situation does not get worse. Law enforcement should be able to maintain order without violence and without violating the rights of tribal members and other peaceful protestors. The Justice Department must help restore calm and ease tensions. Please act to ease tensions, restore order, and make clear that violence against peaceful protestors or against law enforcement officials should not be tolerated. Thank you for your timely consideration and response to this request. Sincerely,Gwen MooreMember of Congress The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy can be found here. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
11.14.2016	Stephen Bannon has no place in the White House and his racist views have no place in our society. Put simply, he is a hate peddler, and the Breitbart News Network he manages is nothing more than a well of depravity masquerading as journalism. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – In response to the appointment of campaign strategist Stephen Bannon to a senior role within the Trump Administration, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "After his victory, I tried to give President-elect Trump the benefit of the doubt that he truly wanted to unite us and heal the wounds that have left our nation so deeply divided. I had hoped his bigoted rhetoric was merely a campaign tactic, but after learning of the appointment of Stephen Bannon — a prominent leader in the white nationalist and alt-right movements — as a senior counselor to the president, my darkest fears about the man who will soon lead our country were strongly reaffirmed. "Stephen Bannon has no place in the White House and his racist views have no place in our society. Put simply, he is a hate peddler, and the Breitbart News Network he manages is nothing more than a well of depravity masquerading as journalism. His appointment — one of President-elect Trump’s first official acts — is not only mortifying, but also a stark reminder of how far our country has to go in quelling hate both inside and outside the halls of government." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
11.11.2016	On Veterans Day, we honor the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen who continue to keep our nation safe. As we take this opportunity to recognize the sacrifices of our country's brave men and women in uniform, let us also reaffirm our commitment to taking care of our servicemembers both on and off the battlefield. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In commemoration of Veterans Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “On Veterans Day, we honor the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen who continue to keep our nation safe. As we take this opportunity to recognize the sacrifices of our country’s brave men and women in uniform, let us also reaffirm our commitment to taking care of our servicemembers both on and off the battlefield. “Supporting and empowering America’s heroes nationwide begins at home, from creating employment opportunities for our local veteran workforce to providing quality health care for those who return from the theatre of war. Just months ago, I was delighted to learn that that after years of collaboration and advocacy from my office, six buildings at the Milwaukee VA Soldiers Home will finally be rehabilitated and restored to serve veterans. It was a major victory for our servicemembers and those of us who worked diligently to preserve this truly historic site. “Today, please join me in extending warmth and gratitude to our veterans, their families, and those who made the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedoms.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
11.07.2016	My colleagues and I in Wisconsin's Democratic congressional delegation would like to thank the DOJ for ensuring that all voters, regardless of party affiliation or political ideology, have the right to take part in our democracy, free of needles complexity, discrimination, or intimidation. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – In response to a formal request from Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI), Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Congressmen Ron Kind (D-WI) and Mark Pocan (D-WI), the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) announced today that its Civil Rights Division plans to deploy resources to Wisconsin for tomorrow’s general election. Congresswoman Moore and Congressman Pocan responded to this announcement with the following statement: “I take great comfort in knowing that personnel from the U.S. Justice Department will be on the ground in Milwaukee during this historic election,” said Congresswoman Moore. “Too many Wisconsinites, especially those in communities of color, face a host of unnecessary obstacles in their efforts exercise their constitutional right to vote. This is simply unacceptable. My colleagues and I in Wisconsin’s Democratic congressional delegation would like to thank the DOJ for ensuring that all voters, regardless of party affiliation or political ideology, have the right to take part in our democracy, free of discrimination or intimidation.” “The decision by the Department of Justice, while welcome, is a bittersweet victory for those of us who want to ensure voting rights are upheld,” said Congressman Pocan. “Although the DOJ’s efforts to enforce federal voting-rights laws is essential to fending off the worst aspects of this relentless attack on the right to vote, my colleagues and I will fight to end the suppression and intimidation that have become normalized in this election. The bedrock of democracy is the robust participation of all of us in the political process—this has always been a core Wisconsin value. We cannot and will not tolerate the continued threat of disenfranchisement against hundreds of thousands of Wisconsinites.” In an op-ed published earlier today, Congresswoman Moore and Congressman Pocan outlined their motivation behind the request to the DOJ and underscored how Wisconsin’s voter ID law puts the franchise of many Wisconsinites, particularly people of color, in serious jeopardy. Click here to read Congresswoman Moore and Congressman Pocan’s op-ed in the Huffington Post. Click here to read the full text of the signed letter to the DOJ. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
10.26.2016	Given the flawed efforts thus far by state officials to properly implement this law, with proof of demonstrably false information having been disseminated to voters just days before the election, we fear that irreparable harm may result–particularly to voters of color, who disproportionately bear the brunt of these policies and any Election Day intimidation efforts. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), along with Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) and Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI) and Mark Pocan (D-WI), sent a letter to the Department of Justice requesting assistance in overseeing Wisconsin’s monitoring of the election, including providing poll-monitoring services in the state. The request was spurred by Wisconsin’s contentious and discriminatory Voter ID Law and a political environment that has become increasingly intimidating for voters. “We have continued to see how Wisconsin’s voter ID law puts the franchise of many Wisconsinites, particularly people of color, in real jeopardy,” the Members of Congress write. “Given the flawed efforts thus far by state officials to properly implement this law, with proof of demonstrably false information having been disseminated to voters just days before the election, we fear that irreparable harm may result—particularly to voters of color, who disproportionately bear the brunt of these policies and any Election Day intimidation efforts. We ask the Department to provide any resources or assistance it can in order to help our state navigate these unsettling circumstances.” The full text of the letter is below and a signed copy can be found here. The Honorable Loretta LynchU.S. Department of JusticeOffice of the Attorney General950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch, As you are aware, Wisconsin, which we represent, is among 14 states that have adopted new voter restrictions in advance of the November 8th election. The state’s 2011 voter identification law, one of the strictest in the country, has been repeatedly challenged in federal court due to its discriminatory effects on vulnerable populations’ voting rights. Due to the law’s contentious nature and poor implementation, coupled with a political environment that is becoming increasingly intimidating, we are requesting the Department of Justice’s assistance in overseeing the state’s monitoring of the election, including by providing poll-monitoring services in Wisconsin. In 2014, a U.S. district court noted that more than 300,000 Wisconsinites lacked the newly requisite form of identification, and that this population disproportionately included persons of color. Judge Lynn Adelman further observed that state officials “could not point to a single instance of known voter impersonation occurring in Wisconsin at any time in the recent past,” casting serious doubt on the official rationale for the policy. A second federal court determined earlier this summer that even the “safety net” built into the law to help voters who have trouble obtaining ID was a “wretched failure” that “disenfranchised citizens” who are “overwhelmingly African American and Latino.” Deeming the provision unconstitutional, Judge James Peterson mandated changes in practice and public education to ensure that that process better serves all Wisconsinites with documentation challenges in obtaining identification so they can vote. Concurring with Judge Adelman, Judge Peterson also expressed “misgivings about whether the law actually promotes confidence and integrity,” and observed that prior to 2011, “Wisconsin had an exemplary election system that produced high levels of voter participation without significant irregularities.” Unfortunately, since that court order in late July, we have continued to see how Wisconsin’s voter ID law puts the franchise of many Wisconsinites, particularly people of color, in real jeopardy. Over the last month, press reports have revealed that on numerous occasions, Wisconsin Department of Motor Vehicle employees provided erroneous and incomplete information to potential voters who are unable to obtain IDs due to a lack of required documentation (like a birth certificate), despite their eligibility for alternative credentials. These revelations led Judge Peterson to remark on October 12, “I'm very disappointed to see that the state really did nothing in response to my order,” noting that voters are “at the mercy of the DMV, and its staff wasn't trained well enough to guide people through it.” We are deeply troubled by the prospect of such misinformation contributing to voter disenfranchisement in this election. While further scrutiny by the federal court has prompted state officials to institute additional training and public education efforts at the DMV, there is entirely too much at stake in the limited time left before the election to let this continue without additional oversight. In addition to misinformation, we are also concerned about potential voter intimidation at the polling places, particularly in light of recent, high-profile rhetoric that alleges “election rigging.” National figures have suggested that there is widespread voter fraud in our country and have encouraged private citizens to monitor the voting behaviors of certain communities for potential misconduct. Given the flawed efforts thus far by state officials to properly implement this law, with proof of demonstrably false information having been disseminated to voters just days before the election, we fear that irreparable harm may result—particularly to voters of color, who disproportionately bear the brunt of these policies and any Election Day intimidation efforts. We ask the Department to provide any resources or assistance it can in order to help our state navigate these unsettling circumstances. For example, the Department has historically provided poll monitors on Election Day to help ensure that all eligible voters will be permitted to register and exercise their fundamental right to participate in our democracy. We therefore urge the Department of Justice to utilize any available election monitoring resources to ensure voters in Wisconsin are able to safely access the polls. The right to elect our public representatives is unrivaled in its importance to a fully functioning democracy. With few days remaining until the election, it is imperative that we do everything in our power to limit the amount of harm caused to our state’s voters. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for the Department of Justice’s ongoing efforts to ensure the fairness of all elections in our country. ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Instagram
09.28.2016	My decision to support President Obama's veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act came after much thoughtful consideration. Although I am deeply committed to fulfilling our country's assurance to honor the lives of those killed in the terror attacks of September. 11, 2001, I do not believe this bill supports this solemn promise. share: f t Washington, DC – In response to her vote to support President Barack Obama’s veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, legislation allowing lawsuits against foreign sponsors of terrorism, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: "My decision to support President Obama's veto of the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act (JASTA) came after much thoughtful consideration. Although I am deeply committed to fulfilling our country’s assurance to honor the lives of those killed in the terror attacks of September. 11, 2001, I do not believe this bill supports this solemn promise. "My respect and sympathy for the families who support this legislation knows no bounds. I certainly understand the passion and emotion behind this bill, but I cannot support any effort that will potentially have an adverse effect on our diplomatic capacities, our men and women in uniform, or our country’s effectiveness to respond to future threats. I truly believe the best way we can honor survivors, victims, and their families, is to continue working to prevent another attack from taking place on American soil." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat
08.15.2016	There is still much to learn regarding this incident, however, we simply cannot close our eyes to the hostile environment cultivated by the flagrant racial inequality and segregation that has plagued Milwaukee for generations. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to a deadly police-involved shooting that sparked civil unrest in the City of Milwaukee, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “The fractured relationship between local law enforcement officials and the communities they are sworn to protect has become further strained by Saturday’s officer-involved shooting. There is still much to learn regarding this incident, however, we simply cannot close our eyes to the hostile environment cultivated by the flagrant racial inequality and segregation that has plagued Milwaukee for generations. We also cannot allow anyone to take out their aggressions on our local businesses and homes or take the law into their own hands. “I share the frustration of my constituents who feel they live in a city where justice is only afforded to some and not all. I also share the frustration of our local police officers who are desperately trying to uphold public safety in what they perceive as a caustic climate. We must find a way to strike a balance where we can peacefully point out the racial inequities in our society while recognizing the valuable role police play in our community. “As details continue to emerge about this shooting, I ask our community to remain calm and recommit to doing everything in our collective power to live up to our nation’s promise of ‘justice for all.’ Together, Milwaukee will weather this storm.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
08.04.2016	I am comforted to know that the Soldiers Home has a future, and that its future is rooted in serving veterans. share: f t Milwaukee, Wisconsin – In response to the announcement that six buildings at the Milwaukee VA Soldiers Home will be rehabilitated and restored to serve veterans, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "Early in my tenure in Congress, Milwaukee Area Veterans brought to my attention a proposal to commercialize the National Historic Landmark, Milwaukee’s ‘Old Soldier’s Home.’ I am deeply proud of my efforts to ensure the voices of our veterans were heard and these hallowed grounds were not sold to the highest bidder, but rather rehabilitated for use by veterans. Over the last several years, I have worked closely with veterans, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the VA, and other local and national stakeholders to ensure this dream came to fruition. “I take great pride in today’s announcement that several of the Soldiers Home buildings will be rehabilitated and returned to serve the veterans who served this country with honor and distinction. This is a major victory for veterans and countless others who have worked tirelessly for years to preserve the Soldiers Home and its history. “I am passionate about what these buildings represent for our nation and our community and will continue working to ensure their successful rehabilitation. I am comforted to know that the Soldiers Home has a future, and that its future is rooted in serving veterans." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
07.08.2016	This week, across our country, Americans are once again mourning the lives of those who were tragically taken from us through senseless violence. Sadly, these feelings of grief are becoming all too familiar for far too many families. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the deaths of Alton Sterling, Philando Castile, and the shooting that killed five police officers and wounded several others in Dallas, TX, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “This week, across our country, Americans are once again mourning the lives of those who were tragically taken from us through senseless violence. Sadly, these feelings of grief are becoming all too familiar for far too many families. However, despite such sorrow and anger, we must continue to rebuke the increasingly loud and boisterous voices that seek to turn us against one another. “Pain can often immobilize us, leaving us feeling powerless in the face of great adversity, but our nation is strong. We have the resources to prevent these tragedies before they happen. We have the means to keep our communities safe, and we have the tools to support and protect those responsible for keeping us safe. What we need now is the capacity and political will to recognize injustice and to ensure that justice is truly for all. “I grieve for the families of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile. I grieve for the families of the Dallas police officers who were struck down while serving their community. I grieve for our country as we try to navigate through these dark times. And although I recognize that such darkness has the potential to create a considerable void between and within us, I take comfort in knowing that together, we can fill this space with light, love, and understanding.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.27.2016	This case is certain to have a significant and positive impact on women throughout the country and I applaud the Court for standing on the side of women. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the Supreme Court of the United States’ ruling on Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I am thrilled by today’s Supreme Court ruling in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt. This case is certain to have a significant and positive impact on women throughout the country and I applaud the Court for standing on the side of women. Laws like Texas’ H. B. 2, a measure which made access to abortion care nearly impossible for many women, are simply ideological attempts to take away a woman’s right to make choices about her own body and future. “Without a doubt, this case will affect other states attempting to pass, or that have already passed, Targeted Regulation of Abortion Provider laws (commonly known as ‘TRAP laws’). As we saw with 2013 Wisconsin Act 37, requiring doctors to have admitting privileges to a nearby hospital and subjecting women to intrusive and medically unnecessary transvaginal ultrasounds, Wisconsin has not been immune to its share of TRAP laws. In the last year alone, Governor Scott Walker signed two different bills with the goal to defund our state’s Planned Parenthood centers. These health clinics are vital to the well-being of our communities, with many low-income families depending on their life-saving services. “I have long been an opponent of attempts to restrict a woman’s right to a safe and legal abortion. I commend the Supreme Court for reversing the decision of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, but our fight is far from over. As we celebrate this judicial victory, we must remain committed to defending our country against further efforts to undermine a woman’s autonomy over her body.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.24.2016	Although many of us in the financial services world were surprised by the decision of British voters to leave the European Union, it is certainly the prerogative of a free and democratic society to determine the direction of their country. share: f t Washington, DC — In response to the United Kingdom’s vote to remove itself from the European Union, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, released the following statement: "Although many of us in the financial services world were surprised by the decision of British voters to leave the European Union, it is certainly the prerogative of a free and democratic society to determine the direction of their country. The United Kingdom is one of our closest allies and nothing will change the special relationship that exists between our nations. "To be expected, markets are reacting with volatility to this news, but I am in contact with U.S. regulators and am prepared to work with the President and my colleagues in Congress to mitigate the potential for economic contagion from this decision. Fortunately, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has significantly strengthened financial markets and provided regulators valuable new tools to fight economic contagion, and the Federal Reserve is closely monitoring the situation and is prepared to act if necessary. I am confident that global markets will soon normalize and we will work through the impact of this major restructuring of the European economy. "While it’s too soon to project just how this will impact Wisconsin, it is clearly an unwelcome blow to our economy, at least in the short-term. As Britain is one of Wisconsin’s largest trading partners, it is imperative that we stay vigilant as developments continue to unfold. Despite strongly disagreeing with nearly every economic policy of Governor Scott Walker’s administration, I am prepared to work with his office to curtail any negative consequences this might have to our state’s already fragile economy." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.24.2016	Despite this major judicial setback, nothing will deter my Democratic congressional colleagues and I from working to fix our fractured immigration system. share: f t Washington, DC — In response to the United Sates Supreme Court’s deadlocked 4-4 decision on President Obama’s 2014 immigration actions, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "I am deeply concerned by the United States Supreme Court’s 4-4 deadlock on the Obama administration’s 2014 immigration executive actions. Just like Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush before him, President Obama is well within his executive authority to implement common sense measures in addressing gaps in our immigration system, particularly since Republicans in both the House and Senate refuse to tackle comprehensive immigration reform legislation. "With this Supreme Court decision, 34,000 people in my state of Wisconsin will have to live in fear that their families will be ripped apart, and the lives of millions of hardworking immigrants across the country now hang in the balance. Cultivating an environment of such fear and uncertainty is simply anathema to our values as Americans. Fortunately, this decision does not set a precedent, nor does it constitute a merit-based ruling. "Despite this major judicial setback, nothing will deter my Democratic congressional colleagues and I from working to fix our fractured immigration system.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.19.2016	Today I joined the Milwaukee community in recognizing the 151st year celebration of Juneteenth Day. Our city has one of the country's oldest Juneteenth Day festivals, with Milwaukee's festivities going into their 46th year, making it the longest running cultural festival in our community. share: f t Milwaukee, WI – In honor of the 151st year celebration of Juneteenth Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today I joined the Milwaukee community in recognizing the 151st year celebration of Juneteenth Day. Our city has one of the country’s oldest Juneteenth Day festivals, with Milwaukee’s festivities going into their 46th year, making it the longest running cultural festival in our community. “As we honor the one-year anniversary of the nine innocent people who were brutally gunned-down at the historic Mother Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, we remain committed to the values of forgiveness, unity, and peace, especially in the face of evil and hate. While we’ve made incredible strides in the fight for justice and equality, this solemn observance serves as a valuable reminder about the hard work we have before us. “As a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, I remain committed to fight for freedom, equality, opportunity, and justice. Let us recognize that equality can only be achieved when we all come together in helping our nation live up to its promise of ‘justice for all.’" ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.17.2016	I am deeply humbled to receive this distinction from the Congressional Hunger Center. Year after year, the Congressional Hunger Center demonstrates their steadfast commitment to eradicating food insecurity through passionate advocacy and thoughtful dialogue. share: f t Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) received the Hunger Leadership Award from the Congressional Hunger Center (CHC), a bipartisan organization working to end hunger through political leadership. In response, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “I am deeply humbled to receive this distinction from the Congressional Hunger Center. Year after year, the CHC demonstrates their steadfast commitment to eradicating food insecurity through passionate advocacy and thoughtful dialogue. I am honored to be recognized by such an honorable group. “Despite great strides in addressing this issue, we must recognize that millions of our friends and families in African-American communities experience hunger at far higher rates than the national average. Unfortunately, 26 percent of African-American families remain food-insecure, with over 33 percent of African-American children living in food-insecure households. “No one should have to go bed hungry, especially in a country with a GDP as high as ours. I look forward to continuing my work with political leaders on both sides of the aisle to end hunger, both in the United States and abroad, and help everyone thrive, regardless of race, gender, or ethnicity.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.16.2016	It is my sincere hope that my bill will help eradicate the stigma associated with poverty and engage the American public in a substantive dialogue regarding the struggles of working- and middle-class families. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In the wake of several nationwide efforts by Republicans to drug test social welfare recipients, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced the Top 1% Accountability Act of 2016, requiring drug testing for all tax filers claiming itemized deductions in any year over $150,000. Today, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “As a strong advocate for social programs aimed at combating poverty, it deeply offends me that there is such a deep stigma surrounding those who depend on government benefits, especially as a former welfare recipient. Sadly, Republicans across the country continue to implement discriminatory policies that criminalize the less fortunate and perpetuate false narratives about the most vulnerable among us. These laws serve only one purpose: stoking the most extreme sentiments and misguided notions of the conservative movement. “Such baseless attacks against the poor inspired me to draft the Top 1% Accountability Act of 2016. My legislation would require taxpayers with itemized deductions of more than $150,000 to submit to the IRS a clear drug test, or take the much lower standard deduction when filing their taxes. It is my sincere hope that my bill will help eradicate the stigma associated with poverty and engage the American public in a substantive dialogue regarding the struggles of working- and middle-class families. “As I’ve said time and time again, the notion that those battling poverty are somehow more susceptible to substance abuse is as absurd as it is offensive. If anything, our nation’s opioid crisis continues to underscore how substance addiction knows no social, racial, or economic distinctions. The time has come to stop vilifying vulnerable American families for being poor and start focusing on the policies that will help create an economy that works for everyone.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.12.2016	My heart aches over the tragic events that took place last night in Orlando, Florida. As details about this horrific incident emerge – including the background of the perpetrator – make no mistake, this was indeed an act of terror. This savage act was carried out in an effort to intimidate and terrify our LGBT brothers and sisters. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to the mass shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “My heart aches over the tragic events that took place last night in Orlando, Florida. As details about this horrific incident emerge — including the background of the perpetrator — make no mistake, this was indeed an act of terror. This savage act was carried out in an effort to intimidate and terrify our LGBT brothers and sisters. “This senseless loss of life transpired in a club that was meant to be a safe space for an already vulnerable group of Americans, but we must never forget that an attack on the LGBT community is an attack on all of us. As we mourn for those whose lives have been touched by this act of barbarism, we must do everything in our collective power to put an end to the attitudes and behaviors that help cultivate a society where such hate can come to fruition. Today, Milwaukee stands with the City of Orlando and our nation’s LGBT community.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.09.2016	Despite Wall Street reform's proven success, my colleagues across the aisle remain undeterred in crippling this critical piece of legislation designed that prioritizes American consumers before Wall Street special interests. share: f t Washington, DC — In response to a new Republican bill aimed at dismantling the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, released the following statement: "This week, House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling released details of House Republicans’ latest push to repeal the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Despite Wall Street reform’s proven success, my colleagues across the aisle remain undeterred in crippling this critical piece of legislation designed that prioritizes American consumers before Wall Street special interests. "Increased banking accountability and financial transparency — core tenets of Dodd-Frank — are essential tools in preventing economic catastrophes. Dodd-Frank also established a series of oversight agencies like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which protects consumers from misleading or abusive practices. As one of the most significant reforms to U.S. financial regulation since the 1930s, it is imperative that we protect Dodd-Frank and ensure that we continue to make the financial system safer and fairer for all Americans. "Thanks to sound fiscal policies and the help of the Obama administration, our country has finally come back from the brink of economic collapse. We simply cannot afford to allow the GOP’s trickle down agenda to once again cripple our now stable and growing economy." ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
06.07.2016	I sincerely hope my colleagues across the aisle will remember that their war against poverty must not be waged against those trying to escape it. share: f t Washington, DC – In response to Speaker Paul Ryan’s newly released “anti-poverty” plan, which includes drastic cuts to critical safety net programs, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Weeks ago, when I learned House Republicans were working on a plan to tackle the most pressing issues facing those in poverty, I saw a genuine opportunity for bipartisan cooperation and collaboration. But today, as I read through this so-called ‘poverty agenda,’ I was disappointed to learn Speaker Paul Ryan and his Republican colleagues had simply repackaged a series of discriminatory policies meant to stigmatize the most vulnerable among us. “I share Speaker Ryan's vision for a more prosperous country, but we greatly differ on how we can achieve such an outcome. While I believe in strengthening our social safety net programs, promoting economic mobility, and building an economy that works for everyone, Speaker Ryan and his party intend to drug test Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program recipients, dismantle the Affordable Care Act, slash Medicaid, and gut the Children’s Health Insurance Program. “Punishing disadvantaged families will not help them break the chains of poverty. I sincerely hope my colleagues across the aisle will remember that their war against poverty must not be waged against those trying to escape it.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
05.25.2016	Our nation must protect the dignity and safety of our vulnerable children. Every American student deserves the opportunity to succeed and thrive, regardless of their gender identity. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, 11 states, including Wisconsin, filed a lawsuit against the Obama administration’s directive for more inclusive bathrooms for transgender students. In response, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I was deeply dismayed to learn that Governor Scott Walker and Attorney General Brad Schimel had joined yet another frivolous and politically motivated lawsuit against the Obama administration. Rather than using taxpayer funds to improve the quality of life for all Wisconsinites, our state’s top Republicans have instead decided to use our resources to pick a partisan fight against a sensible federal directive aimed at making meaningful change for countless transgender students nationwide. “Our nation must protect the dignity and safety of our vulnerable children. Every American student deserves the opportunity to succeed and thrive, regardless of their gender identity. “While I can’t say I’m surprised by this action, particularly from the Walker administration, I have faith that love and inclusion will overcome such bigoted and intolerant efforts. We owe it to our children and the future of our country to speak out against this baseless assault against equality.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Snapchat | Website
05.12.2016	It is my sincere hope that my bill will not only help protect our citizens, but also also assist those responsible for keeping us safe and who put their lives on the line everyday. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the nationwide concern on police-involved shootings, including the death of Dontre Hamilton, and calls to address the strained relationship between local law enforcement and the people they serve, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) recently introduced the Preventing Tragedies Between Police and Communities Act of 2016. This legislation would require de-escalation training in our police academies across the country with an overarching focus on preserving life through enhanced training. Today, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “As a mother, grandmother, and elected representative, I personally took the untimely death of Dontre Hamilton to heart. Dontre wasn’t just my constituent, but a member of our community, yet sadly, his story is not unique. Too many young men and women in this country are unreasonably struck down by the very people who swore an oath to protect them. Too many mothers have been forced to bury their children and too many Americans have shared a fate similar to that of Dontre’s. “Upon hearing the news of this young man’s passing, I made a promise to myself and his mother, Maria Hamilton, that his death would not be in vain. This, coupled with the boisterous feedback from my constituents, led me to draft the Preventing Tragedies Between Police and Communities Act of 2016. This bill would give local law enforcement officials the valuable tools and training they need to safely and effectively patrol our streets with a strong emphasis on preserving life, drawing from several ‘best practices’ and recommendations from the Police Executive Research Forum. “We all know that police serve a vital role in upholding public safety and improving the quality of life of communities. Let us not forget the trauma that officers experience in being involved in a violent altercation, especially one that results in the loss of life. It is my sincere hope that my bill will not only help protect our citizens, but also also assist those responsible for keeping us safe and who put their lives on the line everyday. I have confidence that this legislation will garner bipartisan support and will help restore the much needed faith and trust that has been compromised between the public and the police who serve them.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website | Snapchat
05.06.2016	As someone who has stood up for labor rights her entire professional life, I see today's announcement from the U.S. Department of Treasury as a towering victory for our country's Teamsters. share: f t Milwaukee, WI — Today, the U.S. Treasury Department announced they would reject a plan to cut pensions for more than 200,000 Teamsters, including roughly 15,000 in Wisconsin. In response to this news, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “As someone who has stood up for labor rights her entire professional life, I see today’s announcement from the U.S. Department of Treasury as a towering victory for our country’s Teamsters. Hundreds of thousands of Americans can now take comfort in knowing that their tireless work building for their economic future is no longer in jeopardy. “By no means was this fight easily won. Just weeks ago, I joined thousands of Teamsters and their families who united outside the U.S. Capitol to voice their opposition to drastic efforts to slash their pensions. They called on the U.S. Department of Treasury to help them protect their retirement security, and today, the federal government answered that call. “Working families are the backbone of this country. I commend the U.S. Treasury Department for making this critical decision and look forward to continue working with them in developing solutions to support our country’s retirees.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website | Snapchat
04.29.2016	It takes courage for young artists to submit their work and have it judged by local professional artists. This competition is a reminder of these students' determination, talent, and commitment to their craft. share: f t Milwaukee, WI — Each year, the Congressional Art Competition provides an opportunity for Members of Congress to honor the artistic abilities of our young constituents. First place winners are eligible for scholarship opportunities and will have their entry displayed at the U.S. Capitol for one year. In honor of this year’s 36th annual Congressional Art Competition award ceremony, held at Milwaukee’s Central Library, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “It takes courage for young artists to submit their work and have it judged by local professional artists. This competition is a reminder of these students’ determination, talent, and commitment to their craft. “I’m always honored to participate in this competition as I have such great respect for the outstanding students of our community. I encourage every high school student to submit their work for next year’s competition so they too can showcase their talents and receive the recognition they so richly deserve. Congratulations to the winners and to everyone who participated this year!” This year’s winners are as follows: Honorable Mentions: Cassidy Reckles – 12th Grade; Brown Deer High SchoolWinning Piece: Self Portrait Leah Penn – 12th Grade; Rufus King High SchoolWinning Piece: Chronic Krow Hunter – 11th Grade; Milwaukee High School of the ArtsWinning Piece: Scarf Vang Mee Lor – 9th Grade; Hmong American Peace AcademyWinning Piece: Txaj Muag Third Place: DaWayne Williams – 12th Grade; McDowell Montessori High SchoolWinning Piece: Moody Meadows Second Place: Emily Her – 11th Grade; Brown Deer High SchoolWinning Piece: Identity Ripped at the Seams First Place: Lieschen du Plessis – 12th Grade; Nicolet High SchoolWinning Piece: They Said it was Simple Please click here for more information on the Congressional Art Competition. Pictured above, top left to right: Third place winner DaWayne Williams (with art teacher), Lieschen du Plessis with first place painting, second place winner Emily Her (with art teacher), and group picture with winners and their art teachers at bottom. ### Twitter | Facebook | Website | Snapchat
04.21.2016	Many of our city's youth find themselves facing a host of obstacles when it comes to their education. Some go to schools that are in dire need of repair. Others are dependent on their schools as the only source of nutritious and balanced meals, but violence at the hands of an adult staff member should never be one of those obstacles. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to the disturbing video showing a violent altercation between a student and a Milwaukee Public School teacher’s aide, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “As a parent and grandparent, I was deeply disturbed by a video that recently emerged of a student allegedly being assaulted by a teacher’s aide at Bay View High School. Luckily, the student only sustained minor injuries, but that doesn’t change the severity or magnitude of this incident. When Milwaukee parents send their sons and daughters to school, they reasonably expect that school to serve as a safe space for their children to learn and grow. “Many of our city’s youth find themselves facing a host of obstacles when it comes to their education. Some go to schools that are in dire need of repair. Others are dependent on their schools as the only source of nutritious and balanced meals, but violence at the hands of an adult staff member should never be one of those obstacles. I consider such conduct as blatantly inexcusable. “We still do not have all the facts about this incident, but as details continue to surface, I ask my constituents to remain calm and measured as the proper authorities conduct their investigation.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
04.12.2016	Water access is a fundamental human right no matter where you live. Dr. Kim and his team have the responsibility to put the World Bank's mission – alleviating global poverty – above the pursuit of profits. This institution must take that responsibility much more seriously, especially when it comes to water, or it will fail the very people it is supposed to be serving. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to fears that the International Finance Corporation (IFC) is not effectively monitoring and managing the conflicts of interest created when it takes an equity stake in water corporations where it also served as a water sector adviser, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, sent a letter to Dr. Jim Young Kim, President of the World Bank Group, outlining her concerns and those of other critical stakeholder groups like Corporate Accountability International. Earlier today, Congresswoman Moore made the following statement: “Water access is a fundamental human right no matter where you live. Dr. Kim and his team have the responsibility to put the World Bank’s mission — alleviating global poverty — above the pursuit of profits. This institution must take that responsibility much more seriously, especially when it comes to water, or it will fail the very people it is supposed to be serving. “By shedding light on the conflict of interest inherent in the World Bank’s investment and advisory services related to water, it is time that this vital financial institution stop funding and promoting corporate control of water pending an extensive external evaluation of IFC conflicts of interest as well as congressional hearings.” Below, please find the full text of Congresswoman Moore’s letter to the World Bank Group (click here to see the letter in its entirety): Dear President Kim: I write to express my concern that the International Finance Corporation (IFC) is not adequately monitoring and managing the conflicts of interest created when it takes an equity stake in water corporations where it also acted as a water sector adviser. As the Ranking Member of the Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee, which is tasked with oversight of the World Bank Group (WBG), I am increasingly uneasy with water resource privatization in developing countries and do not believe that the current ring-fencing policies separating the investment and advising functions of the IFC are adequate. I would respectfully urge the WBG and IFC to cease promoting and funding privatization of water resources, including so-called “public-private partnerships” (PPPs) in the water sector, until there has been a robust outside evaluation of the IFC’s conflicts policy and practices and an opportunity for additional congressional hearings on the subject. When the IFC was first established in 1956, it was prohibited from purchasing corporate equity to avoid conflicts of interest. However, in 1961, the IFC’s Articles of Agreement were amended with a provision that permitted equity financing. The IFC maintains that the conflicts are managed by a “Chinese wall” that prohibits “its advisory services from sharing information with its lending arm.” Therefore, I am alarmed by IFC reports that claim it has “aligned,” “combine[d],” or “integrated” its investments and advisory services (“buy side” and “sell side”). This suggests to me that the “Chinese wall” is not adequately mitigating the conflict between the IFC’s advisory and financing activities. In fact, a water privatization arrangement in Manila, Philippines (where the IFC was both adviser and investor) has resulted in a contentious dispute between an IFC investee corporation and the Philippines government over utility rates and corporate profits deemed excessive by Philippine regulators and international arbitrators. In the late 1990s, the IFC advised on and facilitated the large-scale privatization of Manila’s water system. This ultimately led to the creation of two private corporations in 1997, Manila Water Company (MWC) and Maynilad. The IFC-brokered arrangement seemingly favored MWC, as that corporation took only 10 percent of the pre-existing utility’s debt and assumed the service area with better existing infrastructure. The IFC then took an equity stake in MWC only. MWC raised rates by 845 percent, eventually leading to Manila’s regulatory body rejecting another rate increase. MWC responded to the rejection of the rate increase by bringing the Manila regulator into arbitration at the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). The ICC arbitration panel rejected MWC’s rate hike, but MWC filed another arbitration case at the Permanent Court of Arbitration in Singapore and petitioned the Philippines’ Department of Finance for financial remediation for lost profits. As part-owner of MWC, the IFC is now aligned with MWC and its aggressive pursuit of arbitration to charge utility rates that support levels of compensation exceeding the maximum 12 percent rate of return legal for Philippine utilities. I would be less troubled with the structure of the Manila deal and the subsequent arbitration if I had full confidence that both were not products of the improper mingling of the advisory and investment functions. As a strong believer in the mission of the World Bank, I have become increasingly concerned that its role as adviser and investor in the MWC deal may now be creating reputational risk for the WBG as the MWC aggressively positions itself at odds with the people and government of the Philippines. The implications of this conflict of interest go beyond Manila, as the IFC has promoted the Manila case as a flagship model to be emulated around the world, including in Africa, where it has led to IFC advisory contracts in Benin and Mozambique and informed a widely opposed privatization scheme in Lagos, Nigeria. MWC, with IFC support, has expanded internationally, with a growth focus in Vietnam, Indonesia, and other regional markets. It is therefore important that the WBG address my concerns and take a renewed evaluation and analysis of its conflicts policy. For these reasons, I would urge the WBG, including the IFC, to cease promoting privatization of water resources until there has been a robust outside evaluation of the IFC conflicts policy and practices. I appreciate your attention to this issue and look forward to hearing back from you. Sincerely, Gwen MooreRanking MemberHouse Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade Cc:Philippe Le HouérouExecutive Vice President and CEOInternational Finance Corporation The Honorable Jacob LewSecretary of the TreasuryU.S. Department of Treasury ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
03.18.2016	In a time of increasing political polarization and anti-immigrant hostility, I take great pride and comfort to see more than 20 local community organizations coming together today to speak out against this grave injustice. Their actions remind us that we cannot seek and secure justice for ourselves until justice is guaranteed to all who live in our community. share: f t Milwaukee, WI – Today, 21 local community organizations united to honor and spread awareness about the attempted murder of Jesus Manso-Carrasquillo and the triple homicide of Jesus Manso-Perez, Phia Vue, and Maikai Ziong Vue. In response, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “On March 6, 2016, Milwaukee lost three innocent individuals to yet another act of senseless gun violence. The murders of Jesus Manso-Perez, Phia Vue, and Maikai Ziong Vue weren’t just a loss for their families and those that knew them. Their passing is a loss for our entire community, but what makes this tragedy even more alarming are the media reports indicating that race or immigration status was a motivation. “No one should have to live in fear because of the color of their skin or where they were born. If evidence reveals that race and ethnicity served as a motivating factor in this tragic loss of life, I call on the U.S. Department of Justice to swiftly lend all of their available resources to ensure justice can be served for their families and loved ones. “In a time of increasing political polarization and anti-immigrant hostility, I take great pride and comfort to see more than 20 local community organizations coming together today to speak out against this grave injustice. Their actions remind us that we cannot seek and secure justice for ourselves until justice is guaranteed to all who live in our community. They also remind us that Milwaukee draws strength from its diversity and our unique ability to unite in times of struggle and grief. As a community, we celebrate together, we mourn together, but more importantly, we will grow stronger and persevere together.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
03.17.2016	Rather than taking a page out of Donald Trump's anti-immigrant playbook, Congress' collective focus should center on pursuing comprehensive immigration reform and supporting the hard-working immigrant families who are woven into the cultural tapestry of this great nation. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to Republican efforts to bring forward a resolution authorizing the Speaker of the House to file an anti-immigrant amicus brief with the Supreme Court, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Speaker Paul Ryan’s attempt to file an anti-immigrant amicus brief with the United States Supreme Court represents yet another partisan effort to undermine President Obama during an election year. Sadly, these discriminatory efforts by my conservative colleagues signify an ongoing campaign to cater to the most extreme wing of the Republican Party and fan the flames of dangerous anti-immigrant hostility. “Adding insult to injury is the secrecy associated with the details of this amicus brief. An issue as important as immigration reform demands transparency, but in reality, no Member of the House has actually seen the language of this partisan brief despite attempts by Speaker Ryan to file it on behalf of the full House. “I take great pride in pursuing solutions that substantively address our broken immigration system, from supporting President Obama’s actions on DACA and DAPA to stop deportation actions against innocent children and mothers, to cosponsoring the Reuniting Families Act, a bill that helps ensure visas are allocated efficiently, and ending discrimination in immigration law against LGBT Americans and their foreign-born partners. Rather than taking a page out of Donald Trump’s anti-immigrant playbook, Congress’ collective focus should center on pursuing comprehensive immigration reform and supporting the hard-working immigrant families who are woven into the cultural tapestry of this great nation.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
03.15.2016	I ask all Wisconsinites to please join me in paying tribute to a young, brilliant woman who proudly served our state with dignity and conviction. I offer my thoughts and prayers to her family, friends, and colleagues during this difficult time. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the passing of Wisconsin State Representative Tamara Grigsby, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, our hearts are heavy to hear of Tamara Grigsby’s passing. I had the great honor to have Tamara as one of my successors in the Wisconsin State Assembly, in fact, I encouraged her to run for the seat. She was my friend and I was captivated by her passion and commitment to improving the lives of her constituents. Tamara was a prolific legislator and I have no doubt that her profound impact in our community will be felt for generations to come. “Tamara personally inspired me and countless others with her integrity, courage, and strength. I ask all Wisconsinites to please join me in paying tribute to a young, brilliant woman who proudly served our state with dignity and conviction. I offer my thoughts and prayers to her family, friends, and colleagues during this difficult time.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
03.03.2016	I'd like to thank President Obama for his leadership in providing all Americans with access to quality health care coverage and for recognizing Milwaukee's commitment to ensuring healthy outcomes for everyone in our community. share: f t Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) traveled home to Milwaukee on Air Force One with President Barack Obama to celebrate the city winning the White House Healthy Communities Challenge. Shortly after President Obama delivered congratulatory remarks at the United Community Center, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “Last year, the White House launched the Healthy Communities Challenge, a nationwide initiative to engage uninsured individuals and families to help them gain vital health care coverage. Through diligence and open collaboration between local leaders, 38,000 people in Milwaukee were able to secure a new health care plan through the 2016 Health Insurance Marketplace. Together with returning consumers, about 89,000 people in the Milwaukee area selected a health care plan. “I am so proud of the people of Milwaukee for stepping up and taking responsibility for their health and the collective well-being of our community. Getting covered sends a strong message that we care about our futures and we’re willing to do what is necessary to protect ourselves and our loved ones from the unexpected. “I’d like to thank President Obama for his leadership in providing all Americans with access to quality health care coverage and for recognizing Milwaukee’s commitment to ensuring healthy outcomes for everyone in our community.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
02.12.2016	As one of the wealthiest nations in the world, I find it shameful that America's infant mortality rate rivals that of many developing countries. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced legislation in the House that would help develop standardized national guidelines for protocol in death scene investigations, autopsies, and the collection of data following an infant or child death or stillbirth. The Reducing Unexpected Deaths in Infants and Children Act increases local and state funding to collect more complete and thorough data after an infant and child death, improve death scene investigations, and expand support services for grieving families who have experienced the loss of an infant or child. Congresswoman Moore collaborated with numerous local and national organizations to develop this legislation, including Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Association of Maternal and Child Health Programs, Safe States Alliance, Society of Medicolegal Death Investigators, Sudden Unexplained Death in Childhood Foundation, Children's Hospital of Wisconsin, and the Children's Health Alliance of Wisconsin. “With thousands of stillbirths and babies dying suddenly and unexpectedly every year in the United States, this stark reality demands our attention, our concern, and most importantly, our swift action,” said Congresswoman Moore. “As one of the wealthiest nations in the world, I find it shameful that America’s infant mortality rate rivals that of many developing countries. My bill – The Reducing Unexpected Deaths in Infants and Children Act – provides valuable support to states, municipalities, and organizations to help understand and combat child and infant death. We have the resources and capacity to prevent these tragedies from occurring. All we need now is the political will. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this critical legislation.” "We applaud Congresswoman Gwen Moore for continuing to support women and families by introducing The Reducing Unexpected Deaths in Infants and Children Act,” said Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards. “This bill will help combat infant mortality by providing resources to improve the health of women before, between, beyond and during pregnancy. As the nation’s leading reproductive health care provider and advocate, Planned Parenthood is dedicated to ensuring access to quality, affordable care for women - essential pieces for preventing infant mortality and building strong, healthy families and communities." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
02.10.2016	Both Congresswoman Lee and I were once recipients of the very social services that are currently being targeted by our Republican colleagues. Our distinct perspectives and firsthand experiences with these vital public assistance programs add unique and empathetic voices to a debate overpowered by crass sentiments and hostile attitudes. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Budget Committee members Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13) sent a letter to Chairman Tom Price expressing their collective concern regarding reports that House Republicans intend to use the budget reconciliation process to attack critical social safety net programs. “Both Congresswoman Lee and I were once recipients of the very social services that are currently being targeted by our Republican colleagues,” said Congresswoman Moore. “Our distinct perspectives and firsthand experiences with these vital public assistance programs add unique and empathetic voices to a debate overpowered by crass sentiments and hostile attitudes. With 46.7 million Americans battling poverty, we should be able to engage in an open debate about these life-saving programs in the light of day, not behind closed doors or with the help of political stunts.” “Today, more than 46 million Americans are living in poverty, including one in five American children. Republican proposals to use the budget process to make misguided and sweeping changes to our nation’s proven anti-poverty programs are destined to repeat the mistakes of the past while furthering eroding our social safety net. Their actions will result in more poverty, more hunger and less hope in America,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “Attempts to use the budget process to push this extreme, Tea Party agenda is frankly disingenuous. Instead of working to demonize struggling families, we should be investing in programs that create more opportunity and build pathways into the middle class.” The full text of letter can be found below: The Honorable Tom PriceChairman House Budget CommitteeJanuary 10, 2016 Dear Chairman Price, We write to share our concerns regarding possible proposals to use the budget reconciliation process to make sweeping changes to welfare and other vital safety net programs. It has been reported in the media that Republicans plan to include reconciliation instructions in the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget to reform and harm our country’s public assistance and safety net programs. As you know, House Republicans, through Speaker Ryan, have made a commitment to restoring regular order in this session of Congress. Major pieces of legislation, like welfare reform, should be debated through the regular deliberative process. We are concerned that some Republicans will utilize budget reconciliation instructions to overhaul welfare and repeat the same mistakes of the past. For example, in 1996 when Congress “ended welfare as we know it” and replaced Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) with Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF), the United States greatly weakened its ability to help impoverished and needy families. Over the past 18 years, the TANF caseload has dropped 60 percent, despite worsening socioeconomic conditions for families living in poverty. Additionally, the TANF work requirements are already exceedingly harsh – pushing women and low-income individuals into low-paying jobs with little to no upward mobility. Doubling down on these failed approaches could be disastrous to vulnerable Americans all across our country. As you know, poverty in the United States is an unfortunate reality for 46.7 million of Americans, which equates to 1 in 7 Americans. Our future generations are at grave risk when 22% - or 16 million children - in the United States are living in poverty. While poverty is a challenge in all communities, we know that communities of color are disproportionately affected by this crisis. Moreover, growing wealth and income inequality in the United States substantially exacerbates this crisis and reduces the chances for impoverished families and low-income workers to lift themselves out of poverty and into the middle class. That is why we must support and expand the very safety net programs that are vital to combating poverty. According to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP), in 2014, federal safety net programs lifted 36 million people out of poverty who would have otherwise been impoverished. Furthermore, programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) proved tremendously important as a swift countercyclical response to hunger during the Great Recession and continue to lift millions of Americans out of poverty each year. We should work to improve and strengthen these programs, not streamline congressional debate to add barriers for families to access these vital anti-poverty programs. Instead, there are important policy recommendations that have real potential for bipartisan movement in the 114th Congress. For example, both former Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and President Obama have expressed willingness to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) to twenty-one years for those without children, which would help improve conditions for millions of young Americans living in poverty. Congress is also at the brink of passing meaningful criminal justice reform in order to reduce our country’s over-incarceration crisis. This sweeping reform could prove to be a meaningful step towards addressing the school-to-prison pipeline, which pervasively robs opportunity from our most at-risk and impoverished youth. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMember of Congress Barbara LeeMember of Congress ### Twitter | Facebook | Website Washington, D.C. – Today, Budget Committee members Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13) sent a letter to Chairman Tom Price expressing their collective concern regarding reports that House Republicans intend to use the budget reconciliation process to attack critical social safety net programs. “Both Congresswoman Lee and I were once recipients of the very social services that are currently being targeted by our Republican colleagues,” said Congresswoman Moore. “Our distinct perspectives and firsthand experiences with these vital public assistance programs add unique and empathetic voices to a debate overpowered by crass sentiments and hostile attitudes. With 46.7 million Americans battling poverty, we should be able to engage in an open debate about these life-saving programs in the light of day, not behind closed doors or with the help of political stunts.” “Today, more than 46 million Americans are living in poverty, including one in five American children. Republican proposals to use the budget process to make misguided and sweeping changes to our nation’s proven anti-poverty programs are destined to repeat the mistakes of the past while furthering eroding our social safety net. Their actions will result in more poverty, more hunger and less hope in America,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “Attempts to use the budget process to push this extreme, Tea Party agenda is frankly disingenuous. Instead of working to demonize struggling families, we should be investing in programs that create more opportunity and build pathways into the middle class.” The full text of letter can be found below: The Honorable Tom PriceChairman House Budget Committee January 10, 2016 Dear Chairman Price, We write to share our concerns regarding possible proposals to use the budget reconciliation process to make sweeping changes to welfare and other vital safety net programs. It has been reported in the media that Republicans plan to include reconciliation instructions in the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget to reform and harm our country’s public assistance and safety net programs. As you know, House Republicans, through Speaker Ryan, have made a commitment to restoring regular order in this session of Congress. Major pieces of legislation, like welfare reform, should be debated through the regular deliberative process. We are concerned that some Republicans will utilize budget reconciliation instructions to overhaul welfare and repeat the same mistakes of the past. For example, in 1996 when Congress “ended welfare as we know it” and replaced Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) with Temporary Assistance to Needy Families (TANF), the United States greatly weakened its ability to help impoverished and needy families. Over the past 18 years, the TANF caseload has dropped 60 percent, despite worsening socioeconomic conditions for families living in poverty. Additionally, the TANF work requirements are already exceedingly harsh – pushing women and low-income individuals into low-paying jobs with little to no upward mobility. Doubling down on these failed approaches could be disastrous to vulnerable Americans all across our country. As you know, poverty in the United States is an unfortunate reality for 46.7 million of Americans, which equates to 1 in 7 Americans. Our future generations are at grave risk when 22% - or 16 million children - in the United States are living in poverty. While poverty is a challenge in all communities, we know that communities of color are disproportionately affected by this crisis. Moreover, growing wealth and income inequality in the United States substantially exacerbates this crisis and reduces the chances for impoverished families and low-income workers to lift themselves out of poverty and into the middle class. That is why we must support and expand the very safety net programs that are vital to combating poverty. According to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP), in 2014, federal safety net programs lifted 36 million people out of poverty who would have otherwise been impoverished. Furthermore, programs like the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) proved tremendously important as a swift countercyclical response to hunger during the Great Recession and continue to lift millions of Americans out of poverty each year. We should work to improve and strengthen these programs, not streamline congressional debate to add barriers for families to access these vital anti-poverty programs. Instead, there are important policy recommendations that have real potential for bipartisan movement in the 114th Congress. For example, both former Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and President Obama have expressed willingness to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) to twenty-one years for those without children, which would help improve conditions for millions of young Americans living in poverty. Congress is also at the brink of passing meaningful criminal justice reform in order to reduce our country’s over-incarceration crisis. This sweeping reform could prove to be a meaningful step towards addressing the school-to-prison pipeline, which pervasively robs opportunity from our most at-risk and impoverished youth. In closing, we strongly oppose the possible use of this “fast track” political stunt through the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget, which would threaten poor families across our country. We hope that there will be opportunities to work together over the coming months and through the Budget process to prioritize families living in poverty into meaningful action.
02.09.2016	With an emphasis on combating the threat posed by ISIL, addressing international health concerns, and focusing on the growing problem of climate change, President Obama's budget proposal is historic both in terms of the bold initiatives it undertakes and its global scope. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to President Barack Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request to Congress, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), House Budget Committee Member and Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, released the following statement: “I commend President Obama for putting forth a budget that prioritizes working and middle class families. I especially applaud his commitment to improving the lives of impoverished Americans. By modernizing the unemployment insurance safety net and proposing to strengthen the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program, this budget reflects our values as a nation to help those in need. Our country demands a bold plan for the future and I truly believe the president’s proposed budget speaks to that call. “With an emphasis on combating the threat posed by ISIL, addressing international health concerns, and focusing on the growing problem of climate change, President Obama’s budget proposal is historic both in terms of the bold initiatives it undertakes and its global scope. But the president’s budget is also notable for an unfortunate reason. Last week, before the budget was even printed, my Republicans Budget Committee colleagues announced they would reject it and deprive President Obama of a hearing on his budget request. This is the first time in the Budget Committee’s history that such a hearing was denied to a sitting president. “When I initially envisioned the 114th Congress making history, I hoped it would be attributed to our efforts to end gender and racial inequality and to help struggling Americans escape poverty. But thanks to our Republican counterparts, I fear the 114th Congress will now be remembered for its unprecedented disrespect toward our nation’s Commander in Chief and its embarrassing inability to govern. Needless to say, I share my constituents’ frustration over such petty partisanship.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
02.04.2016	With each passing day, we learn more about the tragic impact of the water crisis in Flint, Michigan. As we continue to investigate this emergency, one thing remains abundantly clear: The magnitude of this disaster demands swift and immediate intervention from our colleagues in the Senate. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to threats by Senate Republicans to block emergency relief for the citizens of Flint, Michigan, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:"With each passing day, we learn more about the tragic impact of the water crisis in Flint, Michigan. As we continue to investigate this emergency, one thing remains abundantly clear: The magnitude of this disaster demands swift and immediate intervention from our colleagues in the Senate."Despite the urgent need for resources and funds, Republicans like Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI) are trying to block emergency relief, demanding offsets for any supplemental aid. This is simply unacceptable. The citizens of Flint know all too well that every action, as well as every failure to act, can have severe consequences."There will be plenty of time for open debate about how to pay for this aid, but that time isn’t now. Now is the time for action. I call on Senator Johnson and his Republican colleagues to set aside their partisan blinders and join Senate Democrats in helping the good people of Flint."###Twitter | Facebook | Website
01.13.2016	Despite such remarkable economic gains, neither President Obama nor I believe that our work is done. Too many working men and women continue to struggle just to provide the basic necessities for their families. Too many communities of color find themselves underserved and disadvantaged. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to President Barack Obama’s 2016 State of the Union, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement:“Tonight, after leading our nation with honor and distinction over the last seven years, President Obama boldly delivered his final State of the Union address before a joint session of Congress. I was honored to take part in this historic event as the president articulated his achievements, outlined his objectives for his final months in office, and expressed his vision for the future.“His words reminded us of the progress we’ve achieved together as a country, the adversity we’ve overcome, and the difficult road ahead. He underscored the great economic peril that once threatened our way of life, and the arduous but steady road back to recovery. The policies that helped bring this economic recovery to fruition are the same policies that helped cut the unemployment rate in half, create 14 million new jobs, and spur the longest streak of private-sector job creation in history.“Despite such remarkable economic gains, neither President Obama nor I believe that our work is done. Too many working men and women continue to struggle just to provide the basic necessities for their families. Too many communities of color find themselves underserved and disadvantaged. If we are to truly and substantively address these inequities, we must heed the president’s call by making college more affordable, strengthening Social Security and Medicare, and ensuring that economic prosperity is a dream attainable to all who are willing to work for it.“I’d like to thank President Obama for his leadership and for his continued efforts to help us build an economy that works for everyone.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
01.08.2016	After nearly 30 years in public office, not much surprises me anymore. So you can imagine my lack of astonishment when a conservative member of the Wisconsin Congressional Delegation recently used abortion statistics as a means to lecture Black legislators like myself about defending the welfare of our constituents. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) delivered remarks on the House Floor in response to racially insensitive comments made by Congressman Sean Duffy (WI-07). Below are the Congresswoman’s full remarks:“Over the years, I’ve heard some absurd comments from my Republican colleagues about abortion. Some have compared Planned Parenthood to drug dealers, abortion factories, and the KKK. I’ve heard grown men debate “legitimate rape” on live television. I’ve even seen a Republican lawmaker put forth the claim that if women are allowed to have abortions, men should be allowed to rape.“After nearly 30 years in public office, not much surprises me anymore. So you can imagine my lack of astonishment when a conservative member of the Wisconsin Congressional Delegation recently used abortion statistics as a means to lecture Black legislators like myself about defending the welfare of our constituents.“Since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1973 that women are guaranteed the privacy and power to make medical decisions concerning their own bodies, anti-choice legislators like Representative Sean Duffy have been trying to end safe and legal abortion. A tactic that has long been a part of their strategy is using inflammatory racial arguments and deceptive claims to stigmatize abortion in communities of color.“I don’t expect Representative Duffy to understand why his comments were so offensive, nor do I anticipate him apologizing for them. What he and so many of his Republican colleagues fail to understand is the underlying context behind high abortion rates in African American communities. High rates of abortion are related to poverty and lack of access to prevention services. A number of African American women face multiple barriers to accessing quality, affordable health care, which can lead to higher rates of both unintended pregnancy and abortion.“Representative Duffy’s hypocrisy on this issue is as predictable as it is offensive. If he truly believes that we all should be fighting for the “hopeless and voiceless” among us, why doesn’t he stand with us as we defend Planned Parenthood, an organization committed to ensuring all communities, and especially those most in need, have access to high-quality care? Where was his support when my Congressional Black Caucus colleagues and I tried to secure greater funding for SNAP, WIC, and Head Start? Where was his advocacy when we needed Republican support to ensure that we have highly trained and qualified school personnel like social workers and counselors for our most vulnerable students? “It’s painfully obvious that Representative Duffy’s concern for life ends as soon as the umbilical cord is cut. That being said, I don’t believe that his comments were said in malice or meant to inflict harm. Representative Duffy’s rhetoric is indicative of someone who just doesn’t know any better. I suggest that Representative Duffy educate himself on these critical issues.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
01.06.2016	Rather than starting the New Year with new bipartisan initiatives to create jobs and move our economy forward, House Republicans have once again decided to pursue the same partisan fights from the year before. Their efforts not only compromise the health care of millions of families across the country, but also represent an outright refusal to pursue sensible legislation with their colleagues across the aisle. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to efforts by House Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act and defund Planned Parenthood through a reconciliation bill, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Rather than starting the New Year with new bipartisan initiatives to create jobs and move our economy forward, House Republicans have once again decided to pursue the same partisan fights from the year before. Their efforts not only compromise the health care of millions of families across the country, but also represent an outright refusal to pursue sensible legislation with their colleagues across the aisle. “Today marks the 62nd time House Republicans have voted to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. Despite knowing that such a move is futile and will be undoubtedly vetoed by President Obama, conservatives remain undeterred in pursuing this flawed, partisan strategy. Adding insult to injury, Republicans have failed to present any viable alternatives as to how they can help American families gain access to vital, life-saving care. “House Republicans have also recommitted themselves to mean-spirited and dangerous attacks on women’s health care by defunding Planned Parenthood for one year. Most women who access care from a family planning center use Planned Parenthood as their main source of health care, and most Planned Parenthood visitors have incomes of 150% of the federal poverty levels or less. I can only hope that this exercise in partisan politics is not an indication of what’s to come for this year in Congress. "These heartless attempts could end health insurance for millions and roll back preventative healthcare services for vulnerable American men and women. Let’s get to work on the business that the American people sent us here to do – which is to effectively govern and address the problems facing our nation." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
01.05.2016	After years of political obstacles and partisan gridlock on the part of congressional Republicans, President Barack Obama is moving forward with a series of sensible executive actions aimed at curbing our nation's gun violence epidemic. I enthusiastically welcome this practical and measured response to the ongoing inaction in the House and Senate that has compromised the safety of communities across the United States. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to President Obama’s executive actions to reduce gun violence, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “After years of political obstacles and partisan gridlock on the part of congressional Republicans, President Barack Obama is moving forward with a series of sensible executive actions aimed at curbing our nation’s gun violence epidemic. I enthusiastically welcome this practical and measured response to the ongoing inaction in the House and Senate that has compromised the safety of communities across the United States. “I applaud the president for taking steps within his executive authority to stand against the powerful gun lobby and the right-wing ideologues they support. My House colleagues and I have worked to comprehensively address the mass violence that has plagued our country through the legislative process, but unfortunately, groups like the National Rifle Association have poured millions of dollars into blocking any such efforts. Simply put, Congress has ducked this critical issue for far too long. The time for action is upon us. “Republicans will undoubtedly paint these reasonable actions as an attack against the Second Amendment, but nothing could be farther from the truth. On the contrary, this move by President Obama will help defend the rights of law abiding gun owners and responsible gun dealers from those who abuse and exploit our current system. Through common-sense measures like background checks, increased funding for more ATF agents, and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts, we can make great strides in making our country a safer place to live and thrive. In addition to these executive actions, I call on representatives from both parties to enact meaningful reform that will prevent guns from ending up in dangerous hands.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
12.23.2015	I fear that, without swift intervention, these inmates are at serious risk of becoming another faceless member of our seemingly endless school-to-prison pipeline. I am determined to fulfill our promise to help these youth become productive and successful members of our society. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to alarming allegations of abuse at Lincoln Hills School for Boys and the Copper Lake School for Girls, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent the following letter to FBI Director James Comey: The Honorable James B. ComeyDirectorFederal Bureau of Investigation935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Comey, I write to express my grave concerns about recent news reports documenting what seems to be a dangerous environment at Lincoln Hills School for Boys and the Copper Lake School for Girls in Wisconsin. I understand that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has now joined what’s been described as a “sweeping probe” into the matter. I thank you for your attention to this matter and ask that you keep me updated on any actions taken by federal authorities. Recent Milwaukee Journal Sentinel articles have described a serious situation at Lincoln Hills and the Copper Lake School for Girls. According to the Sentinel’s reporting, staff members at Lincoln Hills have apparently been placed on leave after having been involved in incidents where inmates have had their arms or wrists broken. Another article by the Sentinel reported on a November 29th event in which a juvenile inmate’s foot was slammed so hard in a door frame it actually required an amputation of the toes. Other troubling events have also come to light, including allegations of sexual abuse, improper use of force by staff, and violence amongst the youth population. There have also been reported incidences of suicide attempts and violence at the sister school Copper Lake School for Girls at the facility. It is paramount that a safe environment is restored for those youth and staff who are presently in this facility. Moreover, many of these youth are particularly vulnerable, living through traumatizing events, poor socioeconomic conditions, and a lack of quality educational opportunity. I fear that, without swift intervention, these inmates are at serious risk of becoming another faceless member of our seemingly endless school-to-prison pipeline. I am determined to fulfill our promise to help these youth become productive and successful members of our society. This situation is particularly concerning to me because many of these youth hail from southeastern Wisconsin and my congressional district. In 2011, budget cuts by Governor Walker caused the closure of the Ethan Allen School and Southern Oaks Girls School, which housed many juveniles in southeast Wisconsin. This led to many youth in and around my district to move to this facility north of Wasau - far away from easy access to family members, which is a critical factor in reducing recidivism. I ask the Bureau to monitor these developments as they unfold and I request a briefing on efforts that you have currently undertaken or plan to take. Sincerely, Gwen Moore MEMBER OF CONGRESS
12.18.2015	The FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill is not perfect, but this bipartisan compromise will keep the government functioning and is a tremendous improvement over the disastrous budget proposed by Republicans earlier this year. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the passage of the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill in the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“Today, I voted with my colleagues in the House to adopt the Omnibus Appropriations bill, which funds the government for FY 2016. While this is not the bill I would have written, I am proud to report that several of my legislative priorities were included in this bill.“As co-chair of the Congressional TRIO Caucus, I was encouraged to see that federal TRIO programs received an additional $60 million in funding. This additional funding will support outreach and student support services that help low-income students, first-generation students, and students with disabilities succeed in education. Ensuring that all students, regardless of background, are able to access higher education is critical to our nation’s long-term economic success.“In addition, my financial services legislation, H.R. 1317, was also included in the Omnibus funding package. My bipartisan bill provides clarification of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, helping companies mitigate commercial risk and keeping prices for consumers predictable and low. This legislation helps businesses, promotes stability, and enhances opportunity for America’s job creators.“Finally, I am pleased to announce that the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act (MIOTCRA) received an increase of funding in the Omnibus bill. My community in Milwaukee is still reeling over the death of Dontre Hamilton, an unarmed man suffering from mental illness who was shot 14 times during a tragic encounter with a Milwaukee police officer. MIOTCRA funding can be used to help train police officers to appropriately and safely deal with individuals in the midst of a mental health crisis.“The FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill is not perfect, but this bipartisan compromise will keep the government functioning and is a tremendous improvement over the disastrous budget proposed by Republicans earlier this year. As the year draws to a close, I look forward to working with colleagues in 2016 to pursue an agenda that invests in hard-working American families.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
12.17.2015	I am encouraged by Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn's decision to request this investigation, and I am hopeful that the recommendations made by the U.S. Department of Justice will help the Milwaukee Police Department better serve our community. Given the number of high profile incidences in my district, including the deaths of Dontre Hamilton and Derek Williams, change in our current system is long overdue. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the U.S. Department of Justice’s announcement that it will launch a collaborative reform initiative with the Milwaukee Police Department, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“I am encouraged by Milwaukee Police Chief Edward Flynn’s decision to request this investigation, and I am hopeful that the recommendations made by the U.S. Department of Justice will help the Milwaukee Police Department better serve our community. Given the number of high profile incidences in my district, including the deaths of Dontre Hamilton and Derek Williams, change in our current system is long overdue. We must do everything we can to strengthen the relationship between the citizens of Milwaukee and those who have sworn to protect them.“However, I remain deeply concerned about allegations of racial profiling and ‘stop and frisk’ style policies that I fear are deeply imbedded in our current policing strategy. While this Office of Community Oriented Policing Services review represents a promising step forward, it does not involve the type of in-depth legal investigation I have called for through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division. In the past, I have advocated for a full ‘pattern and practice’ review of the Milwaukee Police Department to broker the change many of my constituents feel is needed.“As this review moves forward, I urge the U.S. Department of Justice to ensure that this process is conducted in an open and transparent manner. In addition, I firmly believe that we must continue to keep all options – including a full pattern and practice investigation – on the table in our shared goal of enhancing public safety and defending the civil rights of all citizens.”### Twitter | Facebook | Website### Twitter | Facebook | Website
12.16.2015	This modest increase – the first since 2006 – will also help us avoid a more substantial rise in rates in the future and prevent a potential disruption in financial markets. Although risks from the global economy continue to persist, this is a measured and pragmatic response to our nation's current economic standing. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to today’s announcement by the Federal Reserve to increase interest rates, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, released the following statement: “The decision by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen to raise interest rates by a quarter-percentage point is a distinct indicator that our economy is growing stronger and is on the path to recovery. With the Great Recession behind us, this rate hike is consistent with our collective goal of job creation and inflation targets. As Chairwoman Yellen indicated to Congress earlier this year, ‘Ongoing gains in the labor market, coupled with my judgment that longer-term inflation expectations remain reasonably well anchored, serve to bolster my confidence in a return of inflation to 2%.’ “This modest increase – the first since 2006 – will also help us avoid a more substantial rise in rates in the future and prevent a potential disruption in financial markets. Although risks from the global economy continue to persist, this is a measured and pragmatic response to our nation’s current economic standing. “As a result of President Obama’s economic recovery policies, Americans can once again look toward the future with confidence and optimism.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
12.04.2015	I am immensely proud to nominate such exceptional students to our nation's military service academies this year, said Congresswoman Moore. "They have been through an incredibly competitive process and I congratulate them on all that they have accomplished." share: f t Washington, D.C. –Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced the 2015 service academy nominees from Wisconsin’s 4th congressional district. The nominees would enter their academies in the fall of 20 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced the 2015 service academy nominees from Wisconsin’s 4th congressional district. The nominees would enter their academies in the fall of 2016. “I am immensely proud to nominate such exceptional students to our nation’s military service academies this year. They have been through an incredibly competitive process and I congratulate them on all that they have accomplished. “Our nation’s service academies not only provide military training, but also four-year academic degrees. Students attending these academies receive a top-notch education and are given the tools and knowledge they need to serve our nation. I wish these exceptional young men and women well as they work to achieve their goals.” Below, please find a list of this year’s service academy nominees: USAF: Michael KowalskiElijah EversConnor JohnsonNicholas PelkowskiBrendan LeeJustin WeberConnor FergusJohn Dargle USNA: Marlee LaneConnor JohnsonElijah EversCooper FergusMaeve HanleyPercy Devlin West Point: Simon KronschnobelCooper FergusJuwaun BattleMichael KowalskiJustin WeberCooper FergusJacob Nygarrd ### Twitter | Facebook | WebsitePerry Devlin Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04)Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced the 2015 service academy nominees from Wisconsin’s 4th congressional district. The nominees would enter their academies in the fall of 2016. “I am immensely proud to nominate such exceptional students to our nation’s military service academies this year,” said Congresswoman Moore. “They have been through an incredibly competitive process and I congratulate them on all that they have accomplished. “Our nation’s service academies not only provide military training, but also four year academic degrees. Students attending these academies receive a top-notch education and are given the tools and knowledge they need to serve our nation. I wish these exceptional young men and women well as they work to achieve their goals.” Below, please find a list of this year’s service academy nominees: USAF: Michael KowalskiElijah EversConnor JohnsonNicholas PelkowskiBrendan LeeJustin WeberConnor FergusJohn Dargle USNA: Marlee LaneConnor JohnsonElijah EversCooper FergusMaeve HanleyPercy Devlin West Point: Simon KronschnobelCooper FergusJuwaun BattleMichael KowalskiJustin WeberCooper FergusJacob NygarrdPerry Devlin announced the 2015 service academy nomineesWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) announced the 2015 service academy nominees from Wisconsin’s 4th congressional district. The nominees would enter their academies in the fall of 2016. “I am immensely proud to nominate such exceptional students to our nation’s military service academies this year,” said Congresswoman Moore. “They have been through an incredibly competitive process and I congratulate them on all that they have accomplished. “Our nation’s service academies not only provide military training, but also four year academic degrees. Students attending these academies receive a top-notch education and are given the tools and knowledge they need to serve our nation. I wish these exceptional young men and women well as they work to achieve their goals.” Below, please find a list of this year’s service academy nominees: USAF: Michael KowalskiElijah EversConnor JohnsonNicholas PelkowskiBrendan LeeJustin WeberConnor FergusJohn Dargle USNA: Marlee LaneConnor JohnsonElijah EversCooper FergusMaeve HanleyPercy Devlin West Point: Simon KronschnobelCooper FergusJuwaun BattleMichael KowalskiJustin WeberCooper FergusJacob NygarrdPerry Devlin from Wisconsin’s 4th congressional district. The nominees would enter their academies in the fall of 2016. “I am immensely proud to nominate such exceptional students to our nation’s military service academies this year,” said Congresswoman Moore. “They have been through an incredibly competitive process and I congratulate them on all that they have accomplished. “Our nation’s service academies not only provide military training, but also four year academic degrees. Students attending these academies receive a top-notch education and are given the tools and knowledge they need to serve our nation. I wish these exceptional young men and women well as they work to achieve their goals.” Below, please find a list of this year’s service academy nominees: USAF: Michael KowalskiElijah EversConnor JohnsonNicholas PelkowskiBrendan LeeJustin WeberConnor FergusJohn Dargle USNA: Marlee LaneConnor JohnsonElijah EversCooper FergusMaeve HanleyPercy Devlin West Point: Simon KronschnobelCooper FergusJuwaun BattleMichael KowalskiJustin WeberCooper FergusJacob NygarrdPerry Devlin
11.10.2015	As a mother to two young Black men, I am especially saddened by the Department of Justice's decision not to bring criminal civil rights charges against Officer Christopher Manney. More than eighteen months have passed since Officer Manney fatally shot Dontre Hamilton – an unarmed Black man struggling with mental illness – and many unanswered questions still remain. Although this decision is certainly a setback, it is by no means the end of our collective efforts to pursue justice for the Hamilton family. I continue to hold them in my thoughts and prayers during this difficult time, as I know the wounds from such a devastating loss will take time to heal. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the Department of Justice’s decision not to bring criminal civil rights charges against Milwaukee Police Officer Christopher Manney, the officer who shot and killed Dontre Hamilton, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“As a mother to two young Black men, I am especially saddened by the Department of Justice’s decision not to bring criminal civil rights charges against Officer Christopher Manney. More than eighteen months have passed since Officer Manney fatally shot Dontre Hamilton – an unarmed Black man struggling with mental illness – and many unanswered questions still remain. Although this decision is certainly a setback, it is by no means the end of our collective efforts to pursue justice for the Hamilton family. I continue to hold them in my thoughts and prayers during this difficult time, as I know the wounds from such a devastating loss will take time to heal.“As we saw in the case of Mr. Hamilton, men and women battling mental illness are all too often confronted by our criminal justice system with disastrous results. As we move forward, we must work to prevent further tragedies by providing law enforcement officials with the tools they need to safely interact with mentally ill individuals and holding officers accountable for their actions.“With violence in Milwaukee on the rise, we must strive to mend the relationship between the police and the people they serve, especially for those with disabilities and in communities of color.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
10.27.2015	Today's House vote to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank is a major victory for American workers. This important bipartisan vote signifies that both Republicans and Democrats understand the value this vital federal agency adds to our collective effort to bolster and grow our economy. I'd like to thank my Republican colleagues who broke with the extreme wing of their party and joined us to pass this critical legislation. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the passage of H.R. 597, To Reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“Today’s House vote to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank is a major victory for American workers. This important bipartisan vote signifies that both Republicans and Democrats understand the value this vital federal agency adds to our collective effort to bolster and grow our economy. I’d like to thank my Republican colleagues who broke with the extreme wing of their party and joined us to pass this critical legislation.“For 70 years, the Bank has supported American exports and kept them competitive abroad. Last year, 90 percent of the Bank’s transactions went to small businesses. Since 2007, this vital financial institution has helped 224 businesses in my home state of Wisconsin – including 135 small businesses – export $5 billion worth of goods and products made in the Badger State.“I am proud to have helped lead efforts in the House to reauthorize this essential financial institution. Since the Bank lapsed in June, thousands of American jobs have been needlessly lost. I call on my colleagues in the Senate to follow our lead and send this bill to President Obama’s desk for his signature.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
10.26.2015	Economic mobility is vital to our city's future, said Congresswoman Moore. "That's why I've dedicated so much time and effort in securing this multimillion federal grant for the Milwaukee Streetcar project. With this funding, we can expand our city's public transportation options while fostering local economic growth and development." share: f t Milwaukee, WI – Mayor Tom Barrett, Senator Tammy Baldwin and Congresswoman Gwen Moore announced Monday that the U.S. Department of Transportation awarded the City of Milwaukee a $14.2 million grant to enable construction of the Milwaukee Streetcar’s Lakefront Line.The Lakefront Line, approved along with the Milwaukee Streetcar’s Phase 1 route by the Common Council and Mayor Barrett in February, will connect Cathedral Square to the Lakefront using Milwaukee and Broadway and Michigan and Clybourn. It will link to the planned $122 million, 44-story lakefront Couture development, which will incorporate a streetcar stop.In addition to this extension to the Phase 1 route, the Mayor intends on additional system expansions into the neighborhoods as part of a modern streetcar network improving transit across the City.“This critical federal grant for the Milwaukee Streetcar will bring thousands of residents and visitors to major attractions and new developments on Milwaukee’s lakefront,” Mayor Barrett said. “This announcement builds on the positive momentum we’re experiencing in the heart of the City and will also have a significant impact on our neighborhoods creating hundreds of construction jobs and better connecting our neighborhoods to downtown.” “This major investment will further enhance Downtown Milwaukee’s recent renaissance, which includes $2.6 billion of public and private investment since 2005, and another $2.4 billion under construction or planned.”“I greatly appreciate the support we’ve received for this grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation, Milwaukee’s congressional delegation and the dozens of business and community leaders who submitted letters of support for this major federal investment in Milwaukee’s economy and transportation network,” Mayor Barrett said.“This is a strong federal investment in 21st century Wisconsin infrastructure that will put people to work,” said Senator Tammy Baldwin. “The Milwaukee Streetcar will also help spur significant economic development and improve the quality of life for Milwaukee residents. I’m pleased to see this important project move forward and proud to have helped secure this investment in Milwaukee’s economy.”"Economic mobility is vital to our city’s future,” said Congresswoman Moore. “That’s why I’ve dedicated so much time and effort in securing this multimillion federal grant for the Milwaukee Streetcar project. With this funding, we can expand our city’s public transportation options while fostering local economic growth and development. I’d like to thank Mayor Barrett for his continued efforts to help Milwaukee reach its full economic potential through this streetcar project."The Common Council in February approved $14.2 million for the Lakefront Line as part of the vote in support of the Phase 1 route. The federal award was from the federal TIGER (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) program. The Department of Transportation was to award $500 million in TIGER grants this year, although it received $9.8 billion in grant applications.The funds will be for the construction of the Lakefront Line and to purchase one streetcar vehicle that will operate on the line. A portion of the funds will also be used to add a second track on St. Paul Avenue, between North 2nd and 5th Streets, in order to give the system more flexibility and to allow the Lakefront Line to run between the Milwaukee Intermodal Station and the lakefront during special events, such as Summerfest and the Fourth of July.###Twitter | Facebook | Website
10.22.2015	As we continue our national dialogue regarding how we can collectively address the rash of mass shootings in our country, we cannot overlook how pervasive gun violence is to our local communities, especially to women, said Congresswoman Moore. "My bill – the Domestic Violence Homicide Prevention Act – encourages states to implement strong firearm enforcement policies and empowers law enforcement officials to remove a gun from a dangerous domestic violence situation. One of the most dangerous times for a victim of domestic violence is right after the victim tries to leave. With this critical legislation, we can help support and protect these brave survivors when they are at their most vulnerable." share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) joined domestic violence advocates from the Young Women’s Christian Association (YWCA) and the National Domestic Violence Hotline (NDVH) to call on Congress to pass critical legislation to prevent domestic violence homicides caused by gun violence. This week, Blumenthal and Moore re-introduced measures in the Senate and House, respectively, that would incentivize states to continue and strengthen protections for victims of domestic violence and abuse who are at risk of gun violence. Leaving an abusive relationship is the most dangerous time for a domestic violence victim, and adding the threat or use of firearms heightens the risk of fatality for a victim. 46 women are shot to death each month by a current or former partner, and perpetrators with access to firearms are 5-8 times more likely to kill their partners.“When domestic abusers are most dangerous – at the height of their rage – adding guns into the mix places people in immediate peril,” said Senator Blumenthal. “This critical legislation empowers states to take guns out of the hands of abusers – persons convicted of domestic violence or who have used guns to threaten or harass partners or children – and save lives. When a survivor makes the brave decision to leave an abuser and seek support from law enforcement and our courts, our system must do everything possible to protect their safety and the safety of their children.”“As we continue our national dialogue regarding how we can collectively address the rash of mass shootings in our country, we cannot overlook how pervasive gun violence is to our local communities, especially to women,” said Congresswoman Moore. “My bill — the Domestic Violence Homicide Prevention Act — encourages states to implement strong firearm enforcement policies and empowers law enforcement officials to remove a gun from a dangerous domestic violence situation. One of the most dangerous times for a victim of domestic violence is right after the victim tries to leave. With this critical legislation, we can help support and protect these brave survivors when they are at their most vulnerable.”“Victims of domestic violence simply cannot wait for these important pieces of legislation. As the largest network of domestic violence service providers in the county, we at YWCA know too well how quickly a terrifying situation can escalate into a deadly one when firearms are available,” said Qudsia Raja, Advocacy and Policy Manager at YWCA USA. “We applaud Senator Blumenthal and Representative Moore for reintroducing this important legislation and sharing our commitment to end domestic violence homicides now.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
10.21.2015	This alarming trend inspired me to introduce the Young Adults Safety Act, which would provide the capacity to help develop model programs to help low-resource teens and young adults acquire a driver's license or regain their license after a suspension. Make no mistake: Those with a flagrant disregard for public safety don't belong behind the wheel. This bill aims to develop and implement strategies to address the many barriers that low-income youth encounter in their efforts to obtain a license and drive legally. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Upon the introduction of the Young Adults Safety Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“We’re seeing a growing pattern by cities across the country to use driver’s license suspensions as a means to punish those who fail to pay a municipal debt. Often, these penalties have nothing to do with traffic infractions or poor driving behavior and are imposed against those who have yet to even reach the legal driving age. These suspensions disproportionately impact minorities, including young African American males. According to one report, in 2011, African Americans received 69% of failure-to-pay suspensions in Milwaukee County. For young people, one of the dire consequences of such additional barriers to having a driver’s licenses is that, at a key part in their life, it can limit education opportunities, job opportunities and the ability to gain critical work experience.“This alarming trend inspired me to introduce the Young Adults Safety Act, which would provide the capacity to help develop model programs to help low-resource teens and young adults acquire a driver’s license or regain their license after a suspension. Make no mistake: Those with a flagrant disregard for public safety don’t belong behind the wheel. This bill aims to develop and implement strategies to address the many barriers that low-income youth encounter in their efforts to obtain a license and drive legally. I can tell you firsthand that a valid driver’s license can be a means — and in some cases the only means given service cuts experienced by public transit systems in Milwaukee and nationwide — to find gainful employment and thrive. I ask my congressional colleagues to pass this piece of legislation to help make our local roads and highways safer while empowering our constituents to build a brighter economic future for themselves and their families.”###Twitter | Facebook | Website
10.02.2015	I'd like to extend my gratitude to Rep. Alma Adams and the courageous Planned Parenthood patient advocates for joining me during Monday's press conference, but more importantly, for their leadership in helping us address racial and economic bias in health care access. I proudly stand with Planned Parenthood in their efforts to transform our communities into those united by health equity. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Earlier this week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) held a press conference with Congresswoman Alma Adams (NC-12) and patient advocates to stress Planned Parenthood’s vital presence in African American and low-income communities. Today, Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: “On Monday, my colleague Congresswoman Alma Adams and I had the privilege of hosting three brave patient advocates for a special press event on Planned Parenthood and their important work in communities of color. These advocates traveled from Texas, Illinois, and New York to share their own personal and powerful stories about the role Planned Parenthood played in helping them lead happy, healthy lives. We heard touching accounts of incredible strength in the face of insurmountable hardship, and were reminded that overcoming adversity cannot always be done alone. “The stories shared by Courtney Everette, Natarsha McQueen, and Cazembe Jackson illustrated the undeniable value of Planned Parenthood’s impact in undeserved communities across the country. Despite our nation’s strides to expand health care access, African American communities continue to face substantial disparities in their health care outcomes. This fact – albeit hard for many of my conservative colleagues to acknowledge – underscores the critical need and significance of Planned Parenthood whose health centers provide birth control, testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and lifesaving cancer screenings to millions of people every year. “I’d like to extend my gratitude to Rep. Alma Adams and the courageous Planned Parenthood patient advocates for joining me during Monday’s press conference, but more importantly, for their leadership in helping us address racial and economic bias in health care access. I proudly stand with Planned Parenthood in their efforts to transform our communities into those united by health equity.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
09.29.2015	It's time for House Republicans to end their political infighting and focus on supporting our country's economic well-being. I urge them to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank as soon as possible to prevent further unnecessary damage to our collective financial future. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to news that General Electric Co. will be moving 350 Wisconsin jobs to Canada due to Congress’ inaction to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “We have seen significant job losses across the country directly related to the failure of House Republicans to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. Now, the state of Wisconsin is feeling the brunt of their extreme economic agenda as General Electric Co. begins to move 350 Wisconsin jobs out of the U.S. "The outsourcing of American jobs was precisely the calamitous outcome I was trying to avoid when I introduced legislation, H.R. 1035, to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank. This vital financial institution levels the global playing field for U.S. workers and companies, particularly in my home state of Wisconsin. "It’s time for House Republicans to end their political infighting and focus on supporting our country’s economic well-being. I urge them to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank as soon as possible to prevent further unnecessary damage to our collective financial future.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
09.18.2015	Let's expose this bill for what it really is: a partisan stunt. I can only hope that one day, Republicans will attack poverty with the same fervor used in their ongoing campaign to deny women access to safe and legal abortions. I call on my Senate colleagues to vote down this malicious legislation. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the House passage of the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: "The passage of the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act is yet another attempt by my Republican colleagues to undermine the sacred relationship between a woman and her doctor. Much like the recently debunked videos attacking Planned Parenthood, this dangerous piece of legislation does nothing more than criminalize doctors, wildly distort abortion care, and interfere in the practice of medicine. "Supporters of this extreme bill claim they care about enhancing women’s health, but nothing could be further from reality. The truth is, we could significantly improve health outcomes for women and their children by fully funding Title X – a vital federal program that provides comprehensive family planning and related preventive health services – but conservatives in the House have no interest in doing so. "Let’s expose this bill for what it really is: a partisan stunt. I can only hope that one day, Republicans will attack poverty with the same fervor used in their ongoing campaign to deny women access to safe and legal abortions. I call on my Senate colleagues to vote down this malicious legislation." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
09.18.2015	The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 – a bill that will never become law – is an immense waste of time and taxpayer money. Rather than working on ways to strengthen the middle class and help elevate low-income families out of poverty, conservatives have once again mounted another baseless attack against an organization that serves 2.7 million Americans each year with lifesaving services like breast cancer screenings and pap tests. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the House passage of the Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: "The Defund Planned Parenthood Act of 2015 – a bill that will never become law – is an immense waste of time and taxpayer money. Rather than working on ways to strengthen the middle class and help elevate low-income families out of poverty, conservatives have once again mounted another baseless attack against an organization that serves 2.7 million Americans each year with lifesaving services like breast cancer screenings and pap tests. "Those seeking vital family planning services and information face limited options and an abundance of political obstacles, making this bill all the more egregious. I am appalled by this ongoing Republican effort to restrict access to critical sexual and reproductive health care for millions of men and women. Their reckless disregard for the quality of life and well-being for low-income women and families is as shameful as it is spiteful and has no place in our government or society. "I commend President Obama for his pledge to veto this dangerous piece of legislation and for standing with us as we stand united with Planned Parenthood." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
09.11.2015	Despite numerous attempts by both House and Senate Republicans to derail the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, it is clear that the historic nuclear agreement with Iran will move forward with U.S. support. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Earlier today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding her support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA): “Despite numerous attempts by both House and Senate Republicans to derail the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, it is clear that the historic nuclear agreement with Iran will move forward with U.S. support. Because of this landmark deal, we now have the capacity to significantly reduce Iran’s stockpiles of enriched uranium and block them from producing weapons-grade plutonium. More importantly, this agreement prevents Iran from acquiring the material needed to develop a nuclear bomb within the next three months. “Thanks to this comprehensive agreement and President Obama’s leadership, we are choosing peace over military intervention. I commend my democratic congressional colleagues for considering this deal on the merits, especially in the face of baseless speculation, fear mongering, and scare tactics from those who sought to scuttle this important diplomatic achievement. “Now begins the hard work of implementing the deal and ensuring Iran’s compliance with its rigorous requirements. I take pride in knowing that the U.S. will now be able to join our global partners at the table in this key phase to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon.” ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
08.17.2015	After careful consideration, I will support the Iran nuclear agreement. Over the past eighteen months, U.S. negotiators have worked diligently to bring about a deal between Iran and the P5+1 (U.S., U.K., Russia, France, Germany and China) that peacefully prevents Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. I applaud Secretary of State John Kerry and his team for their rigorous efforts in brokering this historic agreement. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee’s Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee, today announced her support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to diplomatically and peacefully prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. Congresswoman Moore released the following statement: "After careful consideration, I will support the Iran nuclear agreement. Over the past eighteen months, U.S. negotiators have worked diligently to bring about a deal between Iran and the P5+1 (U.S., U.K., Russia, France, Germany and China) that peacefully prevents Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. I applaud Secretary of State John Kerry and his team for their rigorous efforts in brokering this historic agreement. "I supported sanctions and diplomatic efforts to reach an agreement because I understand that even the most crippling sanctions have not stopped Iran from obtaining nearly 20,000 centrifuges and building a stockpile of uranium that now put it on the threshold of developing a nuclear bomb. An Iranian regime that possesses a nuclear weapon is serious threat to our national security and Israel’s security as well. Though this agreement is far from perfect, I believe failure to approve this deal leaves Iran’s nuclear program completely unchecked and shrouded in secrecy. "In 2012, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said 'the only way that you can credibly prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, is to prevent Iran from amassing enough enriched uranium for a bomb.' This deal does just that. Iran’s stockpile of uranium would shrink to a fraction of its current supply. Their centrifuge cascades will be dismantled and thousands will be stored under international monitoring. Iran will remove and replace the core of its Arak facility, limiting its ability to produce plutonium for a bomb. Additionally, Iran’s nuclear supply chain will be continuously monitored and we will have the ability to put international sanctions back into place if Iran violates any terms of the deal. "Critics of the deal claim we simply cannot trust Iran. I too harbor a deep mistrust of Tehran, which is exactly why this deal is so critical. It was President Reagan who declared, 'We will never retreat from negotiations,' in defending his decision to negotiate with the Soviet Union. 'The fact that neither of us likes the other system is no reason to refuse to talk,' he said. 'Living in this nuclear age makes it imperative that we do talk.' "Opponents also claim that even with this agreement, Iran will continue to be a destabilizing force in the Middle East, funding terrorism activities across the region and continuing to flagrantly violate the human rights of many of its country’s citizens. I share those concerns, but this deal was never meant to solve all outstanding issues with Iran, nor was it intended to turn them into an ally. "This agreement is simply about denying Iran a path to a nuclear weapon. As General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in a hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee, 'If followed, the deal [sic] addresses one critical and the most dangerous point of friction with the Iranian regime.' "Some continue to insist that the U.S. hold out for a better deal, one where Iran capitulates to all of our demands and agrees to endless restrictions without any sanction relief, but such an agreement simply doesn’t exist. We must remember that diplomacy rarely yields a perfect deal. "Next month, the House and Senate will have the chance to debate the Iran agreement. Not only will I support this historic deal, but I will also oppose any congressional efforts to block its implementation." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
07.23.2015	In addition to the contemptuous nature of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, I am especially troubled by the impact this bill will have on our country's most vulnerable and isolated populations. This legislation would withhold vital crime prevention funding from •sanctuary cities' which have decided to focus their limited resources on making their communities safer rather than policing federal immigration laws. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to the passage of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, H.R. 3009, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "The passage of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, H.R. 3009, is another victory for House Republicans in their national efforts to pursue an anti-immigrant and discriminatory agenda. Policies like this fail to address the issues surrounding our fractured immigration system and only serve to punish states and local municipalities that support effective and lawful community policing strategies. "In addition to the contemptuous nature of the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, I am especially troubled by the impact this bill will have on our country’s most vulnerable and isolated populations. This legislation would withhold vital crime prevention funding from ‘sanctuary cities’ which have decided to focus their limited resources on making their communities safer rather than policing federal immigration laws. Unfortunately, we know all too well that these types of policies directly undermine the carefully-built trust between police and immigrant communities – pushing victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking deeper into the shadows. These victims are in need of a lifeline, but sadly, House Republicans are more concerned with riling up the most xenophobic elements of their base rather than helping those who have been forced into the shadows. "As the leading voice in the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), I find it abhorrent that the House has passed a bill that will undoubtedly undercut the protections of VAWA and endanger immigrant survivors and their children. I strongly urge my Senate colleagues to vote against this bill." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
07.20.2015	It has been more than fourteen months since that tragedy occurred. It has been more than six months since Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisolm declined to file charges against Office Christopher Manney in relation to the shooting and U.S. Attorney Jim Santelle announced a federal review of the case. However, according to the Hamilton family, they have not received any updates as to the status of this review. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to mounting frustration over the Department of Justice’s lack of expedience in the assessment of potential civil rights violations in the officer-involved shooting death of Dontre Hamilton, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) and Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) sent the following letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch: The Honorable Loretta LynchUnited States Attorney GeneralDepartment of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20530 Attorney General Lynch, We write to express our concern about the slow pace of the federal review of potential civil rights violations in the officer-involved shooting death of Dontre Hamilton, and federal “pattern and practice” review of the Milwaukee Police Department. We respectfully encourage the Department of Justice to expedite these reviews and to provide the Hamilton family with an update on the status of its efforts around Dontre’s death. It has been more than fourteen months since that tragedy occurred. It has been more than six months since Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisolm declined to file charges against Office Christopher Manney in relation to the shooting and U.S. Attorney Jim Santelle announced a federal review of the case. However, according to the Hamilton family, they have not received any updates as to the status of this review. Furthermore, U.S. Attorney Santelle began to solicit information from members of the Milwaukee community as early as October 2012 in support of a potential “pattern and practice” investigation of the Milwaukee Police Department. This announcement came after the July 2011 in-custody death of Derek Williams, which the medical examiner ruled a homicide. While we understand that the Justice Department continues to solicit community complaints about the conduct of the Milwaukee Police Department, we share the concern and frustration of the Milwaukee community with the pace of this review. We continue to hear from Milwaukee constituents who are fearful and distrustful of law enforcement, particularly after the deaths of Derek Williams and Dontre Hamilton. We believe tangible progress on these federal investigations will help to restore trust between the Milwaukee Police Department and the broader community and can lead to the implementation of policies and practices that will better protect our officers and better serve the people of Milwaukee. Law enforcement personnel have extremely difficult jobs and they put their lives on the line every day to help keep our communities safe. In Milwaukee, there has been an alarming increase in violence in recent months and, now more than ever, we must ensure that there is trust between police and the people they serve to help reduce crime and strengthen this community. Thank you again for your attention to this matter, and we look forward to working with you going forward. Sincerely, Senator Tammy Baldwin Representative Gwen Moore ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
07.16.2015	I suggest instead of wasting Wisconsin taxpayer dollars on this frivolous lawsuit, the money could be better spent trying to figure out how to help restore food assistance to the seniors in Wisconsin who saw they Food Share payments significantly cut by the 2014 farm bill. share: f t Washington, D.C. — In response to his lawsuit against the federal government over drug testing food stamp recipients, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent the following letter to Governor Scott Walker: The Honorable Scott WalkerGovernorState of WisconsinP.O. Box 7863Madison, WI 53707 Dear Governor Walker, I am writing to express my strong opposition to the ill-advised and illegal proposal enacted in the recently adopted Wisconsin State budget to add a drug test as a requirement for participating in Food Share for some recipients. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) is vital in helping to combat hunger in America and is a vital lifeline for over 800,000 in Wisconsin. I remind you that SNAP is a federal program and the federal government covers 100% of the costs of the benefits. Administrative costs are split between states and the federal government. As a result, federal law grants the federal government sole authority to set eligibility requirements for the program. Yet, the State of Wisconsin seems intent on pursuing this misguided drug testing policy, though federal law on this matter is clear. After passage in the recent State Budget of this unwarranted, wasteful, and unconstitutional provision, you have now filed a frivolous lawsuit—at state taxpayer expense no less. Your lawsuit appears to implicitly acknowledge that the federal government could not legally allow this scheme to move forward and advances a very serious misinterpretation of federal law permitting drug testing for SNAP recipients that not even Republicans in Congress share. How do I know? In 2013, I managed the time opposing the amendment that sought to permit states to add drug testing as a condition for SNAP eligibility during debate in on the farm bill in the House. That proposal (Sec. 136 of H.R. 3102, Hudson Amendment to H.R. 1947) sought to allow states to conduct drug testing for SNAP recipients beyond current law which allows states to ban or test convicted drug felons. The amendment was adopted in the House and incorporated into both H.R. 1947 and H.R. 3102. As noted by the Republican chairman of the House Agriculture Committee during debate on H.R. 3102, “Language allowing the States to very clearly use drug testing as a part of their SNAP application process was adopted by a majority of the votes on this floor.” It would be inconceivable that House Republicans would have pursued this legislation if your interpretation of federal law was, in fact, correct. If I have not been clear, just over a year and a half ago, House Republicans recognized that no federal law allows drug testing of SNAP recipients by states beyond those with drug convictions. Congress then said NO to giving states that power as the House passed provisions were dropped from the final Farm Bill. Federal law related to SNAP remains crystal clear on another item: States cannot add conditions of eligibility to SNAP, outside those required by federal law. Specifically, Section 5(b) of the Food and Nutrition Act (7 U.S.C. §2014(b)) states that "No plan of operation submitted by a State agency shall be approved unless the standards of eligibility meet those established by the Secretary, and no State agency shall impose any other standards of eligibility as a condition for participating in the program." I applaud the work of the USDA to make sure that Wisconsin and other states are not allowed to add wasteful, unnecessary, and, in this case, unconstitutional, requirements to impose more hardships and obstacles to those who are food insecure in our communities. While you may be frustrated by this interpretation, the law remains the law. I won’t get into the very fallacious arguments behind proposals such as this that are based on the unfounded and unwarranted presumption most of the people who use food stamps also use drugs other than to express that I have seen neither your office nor proponents in the State Legislature provide one iota of scientific evidence supporting that contention. I do know that Florida tried to drug test applicants for TANF benefits. Besides being struck down as unconstitutional by a federal court, it was wasteful as well given that Florida spent more money reimbursing individuals for drug tests than the state saved on screening out an extremely small population (108 of 4,086 TANF applicants). I suggest instead of wasting Wisconsin taxpayer dollars on this frivolous lawsuit, the money could be better spent trying to figure out how to help restore food assistance to the seniors in Wisconsin who saw they Food Share payments significantly cut by the 2014 farm bill. This includes seniors like 65 year old Judy Beals of Belleville, a disabled senior who relies on Social Security, who saw her benefit drop from $120 to $16. Governors in other states have stepped up to protect vulnerable citizens from losing access to SNAP benefits. Wisconsin can join them if you so choose. Again, I urge you to abandon your attempts to impose a wasteful, unconstitutional, unnecessary, and stigmatizing provision whose only goal is to shame poor people. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
07.08.2015	Every student – regardless of their race, upbringing, or socioeconomic background – deserves access to the kind of top-quality education that can propel them to become the next generation of American innovators and leaders. Unfortunately, H.R. 5 falls short of that obligation. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to her opposition of H.R. 5, the Republican reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "Every student – regardless of their race, upbringing, or socioeconomic background – deserves access to the kind of top-quality education that can propel them to become the next generation of American innovators and leaders. Unfortunately, H.R. 5 falls short of that obligation. This flawed legislation is in dire need of further reform due to its little regard for the goal of the original Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965—full educational opportunity for our country’s at risk students. "Sadly, Republicans are now applying their reverse Robin Hood principles to our nation’s education system. In my district, Milwaukee Public Schools stand to lose $159 million in vital funding under this discriminatory bill. We simply cannot succeed in the 21 century if we don’t invest in the education of our children – all of our children. We need sensible legislation that invests in an educational system that keeps America competitive in the new globalized world. America’s students deserve better and I am determined to do everything in my power to help expand their educational opportunities." ### Twitter | Facebook | Website
06.26.2015	This decision by the Supreme Court marks a truly historic day for our country. As the debate for marriage equality in America comes to an end, I am proud to say that dignity and love have won. As a member of the Congressional Equality Caucus, I am delighted to celebrate this great victory with our nation's LGBT brothers and sisters. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on marriage equality, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “This decision by the Supreme Court marks a truly historic day for our country. As the debate for marriage equality in America comes to an end, I am proud to say that dignity and love have won. As a member of the Congressional Equality Caucus, I am delighted to celebrate this great victory with our nation’s LGBT brothers and sisters. "As we commemorate this joyous occasion, let us also recognize that discrimination and intolerance still exist and that our fight for equality will continue until we’ve secured full and equal protections for all LGBT Americans." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
06.25.2015	The Supreme Court of the United States has once again upheld the Affordable Care Act (ACA). This decision will allow millions of Americans who depend on the subsidies provided by the ACA to keep their health coverage. This landmark legislation provides all Americans, regardless of where they live, with access to quality health care, and is an important lifeline for our working and middle class families. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold a core tenet of the Affordable Care Act in King v. Burwell, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "The Supreme Court of the United States has once again upheld the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The decision will allow millions of Americans who depend on the subsidies provided by the ACA to keep their health coverage. This landmark legislation provides all Americans, regardless of where they live, with access to quality health care, and is an important lifeline for our working and middle class families. "This Supreme Court decision is further confirmation that the ACA is here to stay. I call upon my Republican colleagues to end their efforts to undermine the ACA, and to work with Democrats to improve this vital law that continues to secure the health and well-being of all Americans." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
06.19.2015	The observance of Juneteenth Day not only gives us all an opportunity to celebrate the Emancipation Proclamation and the end of slavery in our country, but it also provides us with a chance to have an open and honest conversation about race relations in our society. This important date underscores the incredible gains we've made together in addressing racial inequality and serves as a valuable reminder that our collective march towards justice continues in our classrooms, governments, and places of worship. share: f t Milwaukee, WI — In honor of the 150th year celebration of Juneteenth Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Today in Milwaukee, I joined my constituents in recognizing the 150th year celebration of Juneteenth Day. Our city has one of the nation’s oldest and largest Juneteenth Day events, and it is a matter of pride that Milwaukee’s celebration is now in its 44th year. “The observance of Juneteenth Day not only gives us all an opportunity to celebrate the Emancipation Proclamation and the end of slavery in our country, but it also provides us with a chance to have an open and honest conversation about race relations in our society. This important date underscores the incredible gains we’ve made together in addressing racial inequality and serves as a valuable reminder that our collective march towards justice continues in our classrooms, governments, and places of worship. “As we begin to heal from the tragic events that took place at an historic Black church in Charleston, South Carolina, let our commitment to equality serve as a source of strength for those in pain. Now more than ever, we need partners in peace who recognize that racial equality can only be achieved when all Americans work together in helping our country live up to its promise of ‘justice for all.’” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
06.12.2015	I support President Obama and share his vision for enhanced economic growth and greater access to global markets, but I categorically disagree with my Republican colleagues regarding how we can achieve such goals. We must find a better way to support American jobs and secure our collective financial future without compromising our country's critical labor, safety, and environmental standards. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to today’s actions in the House moving towards passage of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “I support President Obama and share his vision for enhanced economic growth and greater access to global markets, but I categorically disagree with my Republican colleagues regarding how we can achieve such goals. We must find a better way to support American jobs and secure our collective financial future without compromising our country’s critical labor, safety, and environmental standards. “American workers deserve an equitable deal. Growing our nation’s exports is important, but we cannot afford to do so at the expense of our working and middle class families.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
06.10.2015	For women who choose to breastfeed, this landmark legislation requires insurance companies to provide access to critical coverage of breastfeeding equipment, support, and counseling at no cost. Sadly, recent reports demonstrate a failure by some insurers to comply with ACA requirements. Needless to say, this is deeply troubling and simply unacceptable. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Congresswomen Gwen Moore (WI-04), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) sent a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell asking for clarification regarding insurance coverage of breastfeeding services. Recent reports find some insurance companies are not complying with the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which requires health insurance companies to provide full coverage for breastfeeding services and supplies.“Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, more American mothers are able to secure improved health outcomes for themselves and their newborn children. For women who choose to breastfeed, this landmark legislation requires insurance companies to provide access to critical coverage of breastfeeding equipment, support, and counseling at no cost. Sadly, recent reports demonstrate a failure by some insurers to comply with ACA requirements. Needless to say, this is deeply troubling and simply unacceptable. We ask that the Department of Health and Human Services ensure that health plans are fully compliant with the ACA in regards to breastfeeding services so that insurance companies can join us as partners in ensuring that our nation’s families are afforded every chance to live happy, healthy lives,” Congresswoman Gwen Moore said.“Breastfeeding is one of the most effective preventive health measures for mothers and children,” Congresswoman Bonamici said. “The benefits to both the child and mother are well-documented, but without easy access to a breast pump or to breastfeeding consultation some mothers cannot continue to nurse. For working or low-income mothers the cost hurdle can be especially difficult. In this letter my colleagues and I urge Secretary Burwell to enforce the ACA so that no woman has to forgo breastfeeding because she cannot afford a breast pump or the counseling services.”“As a mother who has nursed three children, I know the importance of breastfeeding as well as the challenges. All women deserve access to the services and support they need to breastfeed, if they decide to do so. By mandating comprehensive coverage for women’s health needs including breastfeeding, the Affordable Care Act was a monumental step toward providing this access. I am proud to stand with my colleagues to encourage and support HHS in ensuring compliance with a coverage provision so significant to the health of women and babies,” Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Shultz said.The letter is below. Honorable Sylvia Mathews BurwellSecretaryDepartment of Health and Human Services200 Independence Ave SWWashington DC 20201 Re: Provide Guidance on ACA Mandate for Coverage of Lactation Services and Supplies Dear Secretary Burwell: As Members of Congress passionate about the health of women and children, we appreciate your leadership on this issue and in implementing the Affordable Care Act (ACA). As you well know, the ACA mandates that insurance providers cover lactation services and supplies for new mothers without cost-sharing. This mandate is an important step forward in ensuring all mothers have services and equipment they need to care for new babies. However, as highlighted in recent reports, insurance companies are not uniformly providing coverage for these services, thereby, making it difficult for millions of women to access this important care. To ensure that these benefits are made available to women as the ACA requires, we respectfully request the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) immediately issue guidance to clarify that these services be covered by insurance plans. The ACA made dramatic improvements to women’s health care by ending discriminatory health insurance practices and making health coverage more affordable and easier to obtain. The ACA’s coverage of breastfeeding equipment, support, and counseling is an important new insurance benefit that has the potential to increase access to breast pumps and lactation counseling for women who choose to breastfeed. Research documents the significant health benefits of breastfeeding. According to the U.S. Surgeon General, breastfeeding protects babies from infections, illnesses, asthma, and reduces the risk of sudden infant death syndrome. Although many new mothers plan to breastfeed, they often encounter complications that prevent them from breastfeeding for as long as they planned. After reviewing the clinical evidence, the Institute of Medicine recommended that women receive comprehensive lactation support, counseling, and access to breastfeeding equipment as part of the ACA’s coverage of a range of preventive services. Unfortunately, recent reports indicate that insurance companies are not complying with the ACA’s requirements to provide coverage of breastfeeding support and supplies with no cost-sharing. Two reports by the National Women’s Law Center, the State of Women’s Coverage: Health Plan Violations of the Affordable Care Act, and a companion report, the State of Breastfeeding Coverage, document troubling trends based on an analysis of coverage documents and stories from women trying to access the breastfeeding benefits that they are entitled under the ACA. It is especially concerning that inadequate access to lactation counseling adversely affects low-income women and infants, and, in many cases, makes it exceedingly difficult for them to gain the health benefits of breastfeeding. It is clear from these reports, and from constituents who contact our offices, that some insurance companies either fail to comply with the ACA’s breastfeeding coverage requirements or do not have guidance from HHS that clarifies the requirement to cover lactation services and supplies. At the same time, recent materials from HHS show that coverage standards fall short of what women need. These coverage gaps could be remedied with clear federal guidance explaining the scope of the ACA’s breastfeeding coverage provisions. Accordingly, we request that you: • Ensure that Qualified Health Plans in states that use federal certification are fully compliant with the lactation services and supplies requirement; • Encourage states to enforce the ACA’s lactation services and supplies requirement; • Educate insurers about their obligation to make breastfeeding supports available without cost-sharing, including through out-of-network providers when the plan has not established a network of lactation providers; • Engage with key stakeholders to reexamine coverage standards, such as the public facing materials that allow plans to provide coverage for a manual breast pump, and develop new guidance that ensures the benefit actually meets women’s needs; and • Increase consumer education and awareness about the benefits of the ACA, including breastfeeding coverage, so more women can access these important benefits and can appeal insurance company decisions if their plan does not comply with the law. We applaud the steps HHS has already taken to implement the ACA, and we encourage the Department to take whatever further action may be necessary to ensure that women receive the breastfeeding benefits guaranteed by law. We look forward to collaborating with you on behalf of all women who need access to these crucial healthcare services. ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
06.02.2015	Proper training of our law enforcement officers in these situations can help prevent tragedies before they occur, which is why I am delighted that my amendment to the FY 16 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill passed. My amendment will increase funding for the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act (MIOTCRA) to help provide assistance and training for police departments to safely and appropriately dealing with mentally ill individuals. I am optimistic that efforts like this will help prevent future tragedies like that of Dontre Hamilton. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Earlier this week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) offered an amendment that passed in the FY 16 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations, that would increase funding for state and local law enforcement assistance programs dealing with mental health by $2 million. Congresswoman Moore issued the following statement: “The one-year anniversary of Dontre Hamilton’s death has come and gone and many in Milwaukee are still asking what is being done to address the serious gaps in our mental health infrastructure. As we witnessed in the case of Mr. Hamilton, mentally ill individuals often end up coming in contact with our criminal justice system with disastrous consequences. One of the points of first contact is often through an encounter with our law enforcement officers, turning them into de facto first responders for those experiencing a crisis. “Proper training of our law enforcement officers in these situations can help prevent tragedies before they occur, which is why I am delighted that my amendment to the FY 16 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill passed. My amendment will increase funding for the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act (MIOTCRA) to help provide assistance and training for police departments to safely and appropriately deal with mentally ill individuals. I am optimistic that efforts like this will help prevent future tragedies like that of Dontre Hamilton. “In addition to providing local law enforcement with the training and tools necessary to be effective in the field, it is my hope that this measure will also help combat the stigma associated with mental illness. Those in the midst of a mental health crisis shouldn’t be treated like criminals, but as human beings worthy of our treatment and care.” Click here to watch Congresswoman Moore offer her amendment. ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
05.19.2015	Most Americans tend to think of human trafficking as a foreign issue, as if our country were somehow immune to such horrific darkness. Unfortunately, these atrocities are taking place in our own backyards at alarming rates, and they're happening to the most vulnerable among us. Needless to say, we cannot stand idly by while women and children are traded and sold like modern-day slaves. Victims of such abhorrent practices need allies in their corner, and I take pride in knowing Congress has finally decided to get into the fight. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – As the leading voice on the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 159) and the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act (H.R. 1257), both of which were included in the recently passed Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (S. 178), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Most Americans tend to think of human trafficking as a foreign issue, as if our country were somehow immune to such horrific darkness. Unfortunately, these atrocities are taking place in our own backyards at alarming rates, and they’re happening to the most vulnerable among us. Needless to say, we cannot stand idly by while women and children are traded and sold like modern-day slaves. Victims of such abhorrent practices need allies in their corner, and I take pride in knowing Congress has finally decided to get into the fight. “The passage of the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (S. 178) is a lifeline for those who have fallen prey to domestic human traffickers. This bipartisan legislation will help provide new tools for law enforcement in their efforts to prosecute offenders and to ensure that victims are given an opportunity to step out of the shadows. As a staunch advocate for victims of trafficking and abuse, I look forward to President Obama signing this critical legislation into law.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
05.04.2015	With every picture and brush stroke, these talented students continue to awaken joy in our community through their creativity and passion. Their desire to express and inspire through art echoes the words of Henry David Thoreau who taught us •the world is but a canvas to the imagination.' share: f t Milwaukee, WI – Each year, the Congressional Art Competition provides an opportunity for Members of Congress to honor the artistic abilities of their young constituents. First place winners are eligible for scholarship opportunities from the Savannah College of Arts and Design and will have their entry displayed at the U.S. Capitol for one year. In honor of this year’s 2015 Congressional Art Competition, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “With every picture and brush stroke, these talented students continue to awaken joy in our community through their creativity and passion. Their desire to express and inspire through art echoes the words of Henry David Thoreau who taught us ‘the world is but a canvas to the imagination.’ “This annual competition gives our students a valuable platform to display their talents and receive the recognition they so richly deserve. It was an honor to be a part of the competition and I’d like to congratulate the winners and all of those who participated.” This year’s winners are as follows: Honorable Mentions: Norberto Rodriguez – 11th Grade; Hamilton High SchoolWinning Piece: Female Portrait Melissa Her – 11th Grade; Brown Deer High SchoolWinning Piece: Self-Imprisonment Zou Pa Yang – 11th Grade; Hmong American Peace AcademyWinning Piece: Introspection Maiv Cua-Herr – 12th Grade; Hmong American Peace AcademyWinning Piece: Beauty Unnoticed Third Place: Amira White – 12th Grade; McDowell Montessori High SchoolWinning Piece: Jagged Eye Second Place: Yaryna Kucheras – 12th Grade; Nicolet High SchoolWinning Piece: Last One Standing First Place: Brandon Poll – 11th Grade; Nicolet High SchoolWinning Piece: Sister Please click here for more information on the Congressional Art Competition. ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
04.30.2015	The deep fractures within the Republican Party have not only left them feckless in their ability to govern, but have also led them to go against their own policies. Today's rush by House Republicans to push this flawed budget conference report agreement to a vote violates their own three day rule, which stipulates that a bill must be public for three days before it can be voted on. More importantly, such dysfunction has made it harder for those battling poverty to provide for their loved ones, compromised the health coverage of everyday Americans, and hampered our capacity to innovate and grow our economy. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement on the Budget Committee Conference Report and the ongoing dysfunction within the Republican Party: "After nearly a month of infighting, political theatre, and backdoor negotiations, Republicans have put forth budgets that clearly prioritize our nation’s wealthiest individuals above working and middle class families. One would think that education, retirement security, and economic development could be seen as common ground issues, but sadly, this is the political reality in the Republican-controlled Congress and Senate. "The deep fractures within the Republican Party have not only left them feckless in their ability to govern, but have also led them to go against their own policies. Today’s rush by House Republicans to push this flawed budget conference report agreement to a vote violates their own three day rule, which stipulates that a bill must be public for three days before it can be voted on. More importantly, such dysfunction has made it harder for those battling poverty to provide for their loved ones, compromised the health coverage of everyday Americans, and hampered our capacity to innovate and grow our economy. "This conference report sends a strong message to our students, seniors, and working families that their dignity and dreams are simply not of concern for the Republican Party. Needless to say, my Democratic colleagues and I will forcefully oppose this report and continue our efforts in defending the very programs designed to keep America's most vulnerable individuals and families afloat." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
04.29.2015	In many cases across the country, survivors of abuse and assault lack sufficient access to vital services and treatment like emotional counseling, health services, and legal aid. The bipartisan Sexual Assault Survivor Bill of Rights Resolution addresses this concern and sends a clear message to survivors everywhere that they deserve equal treatment and that they are not alone. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – As Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month comes to a close, today Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04), Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Rep. Ann Wagner (MO-02), and Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) proudly introduced the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Resolution. This resolution encourages all states to adopt a comprehensive set of legal and civil protections for survivors of sexual assault. Protections such as the right to know the results of a survivor’s rape kit test and the right to be notified in writing of the nearest rape crisis center are fundamental to survivors’ recovery and pursuit of justice, but are currently sparsely and inconsistently guaranteed at the state level. The resolution offered today by a bipartisan group of women in the House of Representatives encourages to change that. “In many cases across the country, survivors of abuse and assault lack sufficient access to vital services and treatment like emotional counseling, health services, and legal aid. The bipartisan Sexual Assault Survivors' Bill of Rights Resolution addresses this concern and sends a clear message to survivors everywhere that they deserve equal treatment and that they are not alone,” said Rep. Moore. “This resolution urges states to adopt common-sense policies to protect the civil rights of sexual assault survivors, empower them with the knowledge and support needed to recover, and help ensure all survivors, regardless of zip code, aren’t re-victimized when they come forward,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “The survivors of sexual assault deserve a uniform set of procedures to support and inform them of their rights during the difficult road to recovery. By urging states to adopt procedures that protect survivors’ basic right to information, efficiency and fairness, this resolution shows that Congress takes the issue of sexual assault and rape seriously,” said Rep. Wagner. “Victims of sexual assault need support, protection, and assurance of rights and state and local officials are best positioned to ensure they receive the help they need. Our resolution encourages states to offer these assurances and help these survivors progress on a path to healing,” said Rep. Lummis. The following organizations are proud to endorse the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights Resolution: RISE, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Domestic Violence Hotline, National Center for Victims of Crime, National Children’s Alliance. ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
04.27.2015	As Financial Literacy Month comes to a close, it is important to recognize that financial literacy isn't just a concept that should be embraced by adults. All Americans – regardless of age – should equip themselves with the tools and knowledge to achieve their financial goals. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) visited students at Golda Meir School who are participating in the 12th annual Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA) Foundation Capitol Hill Challenge. In honor of this event, Congresswoman Moore issued the following statement: “I am delighted to see so many passionate students taking part in a challenge that underscores the importance of saving and investing, while simultaneously promoting a better understanding of our government. This fun and unique program enables participants to explore the global economy and learn how to make educated and successful decisions with their money. “As Financial Literacy Month comes to a close, it is important to recognize that financial literacy isn’t just a concept that should be embraced by adults. All Americans – regardless of age – should equip themselves with the tools and knowledge to achieve their financial goals.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
04.22.2015	Each year, we set aside a day to remind ourselves of the debt we owe the Earth for sustaining, nourishing, and protecting us year round. We often take for granted the resources our planet has provided us, but this mentality must change if we want the opportunity to pass on a habitable environment to our children and grandchildren. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – In commemoration of the 45th anniversary of Earth Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement:“Each year, we set aside a day to remind ourselves of the debt we owe the Earth for sustaining, nourishing, and protecting us year round. We often take for granted the resources our planet has provided us, but this mentality must change if we want the opportunity to pass on a habitable environment to our children and grandchildren.“In Wisconsin, one of our most valuable natural resources is the Great Lakes, the largest system of fresh water in the world. As a source of food, water, and recreation, we need to ensure that it is appropriately maintained, so that it continues to serve as a treasure of the Midwest for generations to come. Important programs like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) have been instrumental in accelerating preservation efforts. I have been a strong supporter of the bipartisan effort to continue the GLRI, serving as an original cosponsor on legislation to reauthorize the program for an additional five years.“The GLRI has clearly demonstrated measurable results. Five Environmental Protection Agency “Areas of Concern” in the region have already been delisted in the past five years, as compared to only one delisting in the preceding 25 years. This has included the cleanup of 630,000 cubic yards of contaminated sediment, and the reductions of harmful algae in three priority watersheds. The GLRI has assembled its priorities for the next five years, but without the continued support from congressional funding, the progress we’ve achieved in the past half-decade will come to a halt. Let the 45th anniversary of Earth Day serve as a call-to-action that we must continue to support vital programs like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.”### Twitter l Facebook l Website
04.15.2015	Last year, I was arrested in Milwaukee while protesting shoulder to shoulder with our city's fast-food workers during a nationwide strike to raise the minimum wage. Our message was clear: America's workers deserve better. Today, our message is amplified by the voices of students, teachers, parents, and those from the private and public sectors. Their collective support for a living wage and the right to collectively bargain can be heard from coast to coast, sending a clear message to America's workforce that we are in their corner. I am proud to be one of those voices. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to demonstrations across the country to spread awareness about the need to for a living wage and the right to collectively bargain, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“Last year, I was arrested in Milwaukee while protesting shoulder to shoulder with our city’s fast-food workers during a nationwide strike to raise the minimum wage. Our message was clear: America’s workers deserve better. Today, our message is amplified by the voices of students, teachers, parents, and those from the private and public sectors. Their collective support for a living wage and the right to collectively bargain can be heard from coast to coast, sending a clear message to America’s workforce that we are in their corner. I am proud to be one of those voices."I stand with the brave activists back in Milwaukee and across the country who are speaking out today for a fair minimum wage of $15 an hour and the right to form a union. Over 55 million workers make less than $15 an hour, a wage too low to support a family. Minorities are particularly likely to make less than $15 an hour, including 54% of African American workers and 58% of Hispanic workers. "There are those who believe that the opportunity for prosperity and success should be exclusively for those with white-collar jobs, but nothing could be further from the truth. America’s workers – from fast-food employees and child care providers to educators and manufacturers – are the backbone of our nation’s economy. Despite their pivotal role in spurring economic growth and development, many of these workers struggle to provide the basics for their family. This is simply unacceptable." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
04.15.2015	I am honored and privileged to have been chosen by Leader Pelosi to serve as one of our party's conferees to the FY 2016 Budget Conference. As we take our place at the negotiating table, my Democratic colleagues and I are committed to forging a path to a sensible budget agreement that recognizes the struggle and challenges of our country's most vulnerable. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the announcement by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi naming her selection of House Democratic Members to serve on a conference committee to complete a final FY 2016 budget agreement, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement:"I am honored and privileged to have been chosen by Leader Pelosi to serve as one of our party’s conferees to the FY 2016 Budget Conference. As we take our place at the negotiating table, my Democratic colleagues and I are committed to forging a path to a sensible budget agreement that recognizes the struggle and challenges of our country’s most vulnerable. "America needs a budget that prioritizes working and middle class families above special interests and our nation’s wealthiest. With the help of Congressman Chris Van Hollen, Ranking Member on the Budget Committee, and Congressman John Yarmuth of Kentucky, we will work towards a budget that provides a vehicle for job creation, deficit reduction, and economic prosperity for all. "I will do everything in my power to ensure that students, seniors, and working and middle class Americans are seen as a central priority in brokering a final spending framework for FY 2016. Rest assured that their interests will be represented and their voices will be heard as we craft an equitable and just budget."### Twitter l Facebook l Website
03.26.2015	Today, the House of Representatives showed what we can do when we come together and compromise. Through bipartisan cooperation, the House passed legislation that will benefit seniors, children, and families all across America. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following passage of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Today, the House of Representatives showed what we can do when we come together and compromise. Through bipartisan cooperation, the House passed legislation that will benefit seniors, children, and families all across America.“For two decades, Congress has been passing temporary fixes to the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) – a flawed funding formula that sets reimbursements to health care providers who see Medicare patients – rather than finding a permanent solution to the problem. This bill repeals the SGR, ends the uncertainty seniors and their health care providers have had to face every year since its implementation, and replaces it with a formula that rewards health care quality and efficiency.“I am also thrilled by the extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) included in the bill, which provides insurance to more than 8 million children. Passing this two-year extension now will allow states to properly budget for Fiscal Year 2016, ensuring that no child, regardless of income, has to fear losing access to health care. While I would have been delighted to see the four-year extension of CHIP that Democrats have fought for, I am pleased that Democrats and Republicans were able to compromise on a strong, bipartisan extension of CHIP, demonstrating Congress’ full backing of the program.“I am further pleased that this legislation increases funding for Community Health Centers (CHCs) by $7.2 billion for two years, reaffirming the support both parties have shown for these valuable institutions. Over 6.5 million low-income women and children receive health care from CHCs. Without funding from Congress, they would lose access to these critical health centers in a matter of a few, short months.“The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act shows what Congress can accomplish when the two parties work together. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take up our bipartisan bill with all due haste.”### Twitter l Facebook l Website
03.25.2015	Once again, House Republicans have passed a budget that cuts programs crucial to the working and middle class so that they can provide more lavish tax breaks to the rich. This tired, failed trickle-down approach shows that the Republican Party lacks new ideas and has no regard for how for how these cuts will affect hardworking Americans. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following her vote against the House Republican Budget, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Once again, House Republicans have passed a budget that cuts programs crucial to the working and middle class so that they can provide more lavish tax breaks to the rich. This tired, failed trickle-down approach shows that the Republican Party lacks new ideas and has no regard for how for how these cuts will affect hardworking Americans. “Just as the American people are finally beginning to feel the effects of economic recovery, the House Republican Budget will undo the progress we’ve made in recent months. Rather than counteracting the harmful results of sequestration, their budget piles on additional cuts that will drag our economy backward, not propel it.“Students, senior citizens, and women and children are all unfairly targeted by this budget. Already struggling beneath mountains of debt, students will face severe cuts to education programs and even higher college tuition prices. The Wisconsin school system will see their funding for disadvantaged students slashed by $18.3 million, enough to fund 100 schools that serve 25,000 students.“Medicare as we know it will end, so senior citizens will no longer be guaranteed coverage. They will also immediately have to pay higher fees for preventive services, which could affect more than 89,400 seniors in Wisconsin.“Nutrition aid for Wisconsin families will be reduced by $1.8 billion, which will have serious ramifications for the 842,000 Wisconsin residents who use food stamps to help keep food on the table.“This House Republican Budget is disastrous for both American families and the U.S. economy. It’s time that Republicans start working for the American people, rather than against them.”### Twitter l Facebook l Website
03.23.2015	The bipartisan passage of NAHASDA demonstrates that the House of Representatives is capable of working together to get important things accomplished. This legislation is a crucial step in building economic opportunity for Native Americans, while maintaining and respecting their Tribal sovereignty. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following passage of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Reauthorization Act (NAHASDA), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement:“The bipartisan passage of NAHASDA demonstrates that the House of Representatives is capable of working together to get important things accomplished. This legislation is a crucial step in building economic opportunity for Native Americans, while maintaining and respecting their Tribal sovereignty.“The need for affordable housing on Native American lands cannot be understated. Some of the poorest and most remote communities in the country are Native American, including the United States’ three poorest communities. Under NAHASDA, Tribal governments have the sovereign authority to provide safe and affordable housing to Tribal communities. In addition, our reauthorization bill makes some much needed reforms to the NAHASDA process, such as the expedition of federal approvals and an increase in eligibility of NAHASDA funds to all Native people.“I want to thank my colleagues who have helped champion this cause to its passage in the House. Congressman Pearce (R-NM), Congressman Cole (R-OK), Congressman Heck (D-WA), Congressman Kildee (D-MI), and Congressman Young (R-AK) have each shown great leadership on this issue. Together we found a solution that we all could agree, even if we each do not agree with every provision in the bill. For instance, I would have supported even higher levels of funding; however, this legislation is the product of a truly bipartisan process.“I urge both Senate Republicans and Democrats to follow our lead and quickly adopt this bill, so our Native American brethren don’t have to wait to receive the help they deserve.”### Twitter l Facebook l Website
03.09.2015	In the ongoing assault on Wisconsin's working class, Governor Walker signed another crippling anti-worker bill into law. This so-called •right-to-work' legislation is nothing but a bald-faced attempt by our Republican Governor and legislature to protect special interests at the expense of working class families. I am reminded of Dr. Martin Luther King who once said, •In our glorious fight for civil rights, we must guard against being fooled by false slogans, such as •right to work.' It is a law to rob us of our civil rights and job rights.' share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to Governor Scott Walker’s signing of 'right to work' legislation today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “In the ongoing assault on Wisconsin’s working class, Governor Walker signed another crippling anti-worker bill into law. This so-called ‘right to work’ legislation is nothing but a bald-faced attempt by our Republican Governor and legislature to protect special interests at the expense of working class families. I am reminded of Dr. Martin Luther King who once said, ‘In our glorious fight for civil rights, we must guard against being fooled by false slogans, such as ‘right to work.’ It is a law to rob us of our civil rights and job rights.’ “During his re-election campaign, Governor Walker made numerous claims that he would refrain from pushing for such legislation in his new term. Instead of keeping that promise, Governor Walker once again broke his word and asked the Republican-controlled legislature to ‘fast-track’ their 'right to work' bill. In addition to hurting his already damaged credibility, this unprecedented move made it possible for Republicans to limit the amount of time available to opposition groups to organize against the bill. Limiting transparency and public dialogue with this approach goes against the fundamentals of our democracy and further exposes the Governor’s utter lack of respect for his constituents. “Unions have been a vital source of economic strength for Wisconsin and the nation. They have given workers a collective voice to fight against unfair business practices by companies that prioritize profit over employees. While I am greatly distressed over the actions taken today by the Governor and state legislature, it only strengthens my resolve to continue our fight for fair treatment of the working class. As the backbone of our nation, our working families deserve better.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
02.25.2015	This week, my colleagues Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) Congressman Denny Heck (D-WA), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), and I introduced legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank before its charter expires on June 30. For 70 years, the Export-Import Bank has aided U.S. businesses to access foreign markets and ensured that American exports remain competitive. Our legislation would further bolster the bank's ability to support American businesses in an increasingly crowded global market. H.R. 1031 is widely supported by my fellow Democrats in the House, with a growing total of more than 160 cosponsors. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the introduction of H.R. 1031, the “Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act,” Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Ranking Member on the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade, released the following statement: “This week, my colleagues Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) Congressman Denny Heck (D-WA), Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), and I introduced legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank before its charter expires on June 30. For 70 years, the Export-Import Bank has aided U.S. businesses to access foreign markets and ensured that American exports remain competitive. Our legislation would further bolster the bank’s ability to support American businesses in an increasingly crowded global market. H.R. 1031 is widely supported by my fellow Democrats in the House, with a growing total of more than 160 cosponsors. “The Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act would renew the Export-Import Bank’s charter for another seven years, ensuring certainty for U.S. exporters and businesses through 2022. The bill would also expand the bank’s lending authority and increase the amount of business the bank does with small- and medium-sized companies. In addition, safeguards will be established to protect taxpayer money from fraud or overly risky investments. “Failure to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank would be a crippling blow to our country’s economy. American businesses of all sizes depend on this essential financial institution for the vital financing they need to stay competitive in the international marketplace. As our economy continues to rebound, it is imperative that we do everything in our power to continue supporting sensible policies that foster domestic job growth and promote export opportunities for our local businesses. Reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank is the key.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
02.13.2015	During this month, we must not forget the importance of the local African American activists, who clashed with the forces of inequality on the front lines without a thought of personal recognition. We have people like Charlyane Hunter-Gault, Vel Phillips, and Lloyd Barbee to thank for the progress the African American community has made over the past half century. I hope their examples can serve to inspire a new generation of local activists, like they have inspired me, to continue their fight for justice and equality for all. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – In honor of Black History Month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Every year, we set aside a month to honor and celebrate important African American leaders who dedicated their lives to addressing the concerns of black communities across our country, so that our children can grow up in a more just and equal society. Of course, we must perennially recognize the most familiar names like Martin Luther King Jr. and Rosa Parks, but this year I want to also identify those who are not as well-known but are no less deserving of our admiration. “This past week, I had the privilege of being in attendance when the Washington Press Club Foundation paid tribute to Charlayne Hunter-Gault by presenting her with the prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award. Hunter-Gault has spent her career breaking down barriers for both African Americans and women in the field of journalism. She was a trailblazer from the beginning, as one of the first two African American students to be integrated into the University of Georgia. Her path led to becoming the first African American staffer at The New Yorker, substitute anchor for PBS’s The MacNeil/Lehrer Report, and the chief Africa correspondent for NPR and Johannesburg bureau chief for CNN. In every position she held, Hunter-Gault always challenged the status quo, both in the stories she reported and in the offices she worked for. “Milwaukee has also been the home of important civil rights leaders who have inspired me throughout my political career. People like Vel Phillips, lovingly referred to as 'Vel,' who served as the first woman and African American member of the Milwaukee Common Council, then the first African American judge in Wisconsin, and finally as the first elected woman and African American Secretary of State of Wisconsin. She fought tirelessly against housing discrimination during the Civil Rights Era and was instrumental in getting the Milwaukee Common Council to approve a desegregation law in 1968. It is for a good reason that Vel is often called ‘Wisconsin’s first lady.’ “One of Vel’s allies in the fight against segregation in Milwaukee was Lloyd Barbee, the activist credited for initiating the lawsuit that finally ruled the segregation of Milwaukee’s schools as unconstitutional. After his election as Wisconsin’s state NAACP president, in 1962 Barbee moved to Milwaukee to fight the city’s pervasive discrimination. He established the Milwaukee United School Integration Committee and fought for well over a decade against racial segregation in schools before finally winning their case in 1976. In the midst of his battle over Milwaukee Public Schools, Barbee also served as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1962 until 1977. “During this month, we must not forget the importance of the local African American activists, who clashed with the forces of inequality on the front lines without a thought of personal recognition. We have people like Charlyane Hunter-Gault, Vel Phillips, and Lloyd Barbee to thank for the progress the African American community has made over the past half century. I hope their examples can serve to inspire a new generation of local activists, like they have inspired me, to continue their fight for justice and equality for all.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
02.03.2015	In addition to the President's pursuit to end the sequester and address the important issue of wage stagnation, I was personally delighted to see such robust investments toward addressing the needs and concerns of vulnerable Americans. I especially commend President Obama for his $500 million commitment toward renewing and expanding the Maternal Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program. This vital program is an essential lifeline for vulnerable children, pregnant women, and families who desperately need effective home visitation tools and support. As someone who has worked vigorously to make substantive improvements in my district's birth outcomes, prenatal care, and early childhood health and development, I enthusiastically welcome this measure and praise the President on his vision and leadership. WASHINGTON, D.C. -- In response to the release of the President’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget request, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: "President Obama’s proposed budget distinctly articulates his unwavering commitment to helping our working and middle class families thrive. Unlike our Republican counterparts, House Democrats believe that a strong emphasis on the critical issues facing struggling and underserved populations will help our country advance in the global economy and help us continue our steady march toward economic recovery and prosperity. "In addition to the President’s pursuit to end the sequester and address the important issue of wage stagnation, I was personally delighted to see such robust investments toward addressing the needs and concerns of vulnerable Americans. I especially commend President Obama for his $500 million commitment toward renewing and expanding the Maternal Infant and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program. This vital program is an essential lifeline for vulnerable children, pregnant women, and families who desperately need effective home visitation tools and support. As someone who has worked vigorously to make substantive improvements in my district’s birth outcomes, prenatal care, and early childhood health and development, I enthusiastically welcome this measure and praise the President on his vision and leadership. "Investing in working and middle class Americans isn’t just fiscally responsible; it’s morally responsible as well. I urge my Republican colleagues to join us in supporting the President’s budget and securing our country’s economic future." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
01.23.2015	I take great pride and honor in assuming my new role as Ranking Member on the Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee. I am deeply appreciative to have the trust and confidence of my congressional colleagues as I undertake this great responsibility. As our country continues to rebound from the financial crisis, it is critical that we maximize on our current economic momentum in a fashion that further fosters commercial growth and supports job creation. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) was selected to serve as the Ranking Member on the House Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee. The Subcommittee oversees domestic monetary policy and related agencies, as well as multilateral development and finance organizations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Congresswoman Moore was also selected to serve on the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, responsible for overseeing federal insurance regulation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the Government National Mortgage Association. Earlier today, the Congresswoman released the following statement: "I take great pride and honor in assuming my new role as Ranking Member on the Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee. I am deeply appreciative to have the trust and confidence of my congressional colleagues as I undertake this great responsibility. "As our country continues to rebound from the financial crisis, it is critical that we maximize on our current economic momentum in a fashion that further fosters commercial growth and supports job creation. Accordingly, as Ranking Member, one of the most effective ways to pursue this objective is through our continued support of the Export-Import Bank and the billions of dollars in economic activity it drives each year. As America’s official export credit agency, this vital institution strengthens our global economic standing by financing U.S. exports in circumstances where alternative, private financing is unavailable. "In my new role as Ranking Member, I’d like to continue pursuing these national priorities, while also focusing on our capacity to address pressing global concerns through economic development and trade. Tackling difficult issues like universal access to education, health care, and financing calls for strong global partners, sound policy recommendations, and a stable international financial system. In that spirit, I look forward to working with stakeholders like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in our shared goal to make this world a more prosperous place for all global citizens." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
01.22.2015	After the midterm elections in November, Republicans made a promise to the American public that they would focus their efforts on the economic well being of their constituents. Despite considerable opposition within their own Party from courageous legislators like Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (NC-02), this promise was quickly abandoned, just days into the new legislative session, in pursuit of yet another drastic assault against women's reproductive freedom and care. Meddling in the private health care decisions of women and their doctors is as unnecessary as it is offensive. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) offered a motion to recommit to H.R. 7, the “No Taxpayer Funding of Abortion Act.” The motion would prohibit any violation of the medical privacy of a woman regarding her personal choice of health insurance coverage, including victims of rape and incest. Earlier today, the Congresswoman released the following statement: “H.R. 7, the ‘No Taxpayer Funding of Abortion Act,’ is a sad return to the divisive culture wars of the past and represents a highly contentious and damaging detour on America’s road to economic prosperity. Not only does it fail to build on our country’s economic momentum and address the concerns of working- and middle-class families, but it also raises taxes on millions of small businesses and penalizes those that offer comprehensive health coverage to female employees. “After the midterm elections in November, Republicans made a promise to the American public that they would focus their efforts on the economic well being of their constituents. Despite considerable opposition within their own Party from courageous legislators like Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (NC-02), this promise was quickly abandoned, just days into the new legislative session, in pursuit of yet another drastic assault against women’s reproductive freedom and care. Meddling in the private health care decisions of women and their doctors is as unnecessary as it is offensive. “This radical campaign against American women is a sad and predictable byproduct of the vast gender gap in our legislative process. With only 20 women serving in the Senate and 84 in the House, nothing underscores the need for greater female inclusion and participation more than the ongoing efforts of those who seek to impose harsh restrictions on a women’s personal right to address her own health and well being. Progress towards closing the gender gap has been glacial to say the least, but if there is any silver lining to be found in this disheartening turn of events, it’s the potential for more women to be inspired to serve and help us protect our sisters against such divisive and reprehensible tactics.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
01.20.2015	Americans saw many of their Members of Congress with yellow pencils with them tonight. In the face of the terrorist attack in France, the pencil has become the international symbol in support of free speech. Rather than divide and intimidate us, these vicious attacks have united the international community and prompted a global response in defense of the freedom of expression. I am honored that so many of my congressional colleagues joined me in this tribute to honor those who lost their lives in the pursuit of open ideas and free expression. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address to Congress, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement: “The President outlined a clear, bold plan that values American workers and honors their dignity. From his proposal to make two years of community college free for responsible students to his continued focus on middle-class economics. President Obama’s speech is indicative of a leader who is committed to addressing the inequities that have plagued our country for generations. “Americans saw many of their Members of Congress with yellow pencils with them tonight. In the face of the terrorist attack in France, the pencil has become the international symbol in support of free speech. Rather than divide and intimidate us, these vicious attacks have united the international community and prompted a global response in defense of the freedom of expression. I am honored that so many of my congressional colleagues joined me in this tribute to honor those who lost their lives in the pursuit of open ideas and free expression. “The critical national priorities highlighted in the President’s address will not be solved overnight. It will take a bipartisan effort and our collective political will to effectively tackle these important issues. I look across the aisle to my Republican counterparts to work with us – not against us – to ensure a brighter economic future for all Americans.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
12.23.2014	A thorough investigation of the Milwaukee Police Department would serve justice by ensuring that public faith is restored. I continue to speak to my constituents who are fearful and distrustful of the police and the criminal justice system following local, high profile cases, like the death of Derek Williams and the use of body cavity searches by Milwaukee police officers. Unfortunately, Milwaukee continues to see these incidents, which, along with national trends and incidents, are feeding the collective distrust between officers and citizens in Milwaukee. The implementation of policing best practices in Milwaukee would better protect both police and citizens. share: f t Washington, DC — In response to concerns over Milwaukee Police procedures in the wake of the officer-involved shooting that claimed the life of Dontre Hamilton, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent the following letter to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division: The Honorable James SantelleUnited States Attorney for the Eastern District of WisconsinU.S. Attorney’s Office530 Federal Building, 517 East Wisconsin Ave.Milwaukee, WI 53202-4500 Re: U.S. Justice Department Review of Milwaukee Police Procedures Dear Mr. Santelle, I write to thank you for your decision to conduct an investigation of the officer-involved shooting death of Dontre Hamilton to determine if violations of federal civil rights law occurred. I would also urge the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Civil Rights Division to simultaneously conduct a “pattern and practice” investigation of the Milwaukee Police Department. A thorough investigation of the Milwaukee Police Department would serve justice by ensuring that public faith is restored. I continue to speak to my constituents who are fearful and distrustful of the police and the criminal justice system following local, high profile cases, like the death of Derek Williams and the use of body cavity searches by Milwaukee police officers. Unfortunately, Milwaukee continues to see these incidents, which, along with national trends and incidents, are feeding the collective distrust between officers and citizens in Milwaukee. The implementation of policing best practices in Milwaukee would better protect both police and citizens. Police have a difficult responsibility, and I think that they deserve the best, most modern training. It is my hope that a review would help the process of community healing, so that citizens and police can build a constructive relationship going forward to address crime collectively. Thank you again for your assistance in this matter, and I look forward to working with you going forward. Sincerely, Gwen S. Moore (WI-4)MEMBER OF CONGRESS ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
12.22.2014	I am deeply disappointed in District Attorney John Chisholm's decision to not press charges against Officer Christopher Manney in the shooting death of Dontre Hamilton. This decision is just one of many in recent weeks that continue to perpetuate a disheartening notion that there is a significant lapse in accountability for reckless officers and the behavior they employ in our communities. share: f t Washington, DC – In response to Milwaukee County District Attorney John Chisholm’s decision to not file charges in the shooting death of Dontre Hamilton, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “I am deeply disappointed in District Attorney John Chisholm’s decision to not press charges against Officer Christopher Manney in the shooting death of Dontre Hamilton. This decision is just one of many in recent weeks that continue to perpetuate a disheartening notion that there is a significant lapse in accountability for reckless officers and the behavior they employ in our communities. "For those who see this decision as a miscarriage of justice, I assure you that our efforts to pursue a fair and equitable outcome for the Hamilton family are far from over. In the coming days, I will be asking the Department of Justice to conduct their own investigation into this matter to ensure that Dontre’s death will not be in vain. "It is paramount that we channel our collective grief and frustration in a constructive manner. We must rigorously pursue justice, including changes to police procedure and training regarding the appropriate use of force. This, not violence, will honor Dontre’s memory. As a mother and grandmother, I can’t imagine the anguish and disappointment the Hamilton family must be feeling right now. My heart goes out to them during this painful time." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
12.19.2014	We need to use every resource at our disposal, both at the local and federal level, to ensure that we are effectively targeting crime reduction without compromising the civil rights of our citizens. Without a strong relationship based on trust and understanding, local law enforcement and the communities that they protect will be unable to work together to improve the public safety of our neighborhoods. share: f t Washington, DC – President Obama recently signed an Executive Order creating the Task Force on 21st Century Policing, an effort to involve local and federal stakeholders in providing a transparent process to engage with the public. In response to this Executive Order, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: “Substantive grievances and questions regarding the quality of policing in communities across America have gone unanswered for far too long. President Obama’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing is a timely and welcomed move forward in addressing these concerns and repairing the fractured and untenable relationship between young, black men and local law enforcement in our country. “Advancements in technology have created new opportunities for us to enhance accountability and transparency in modern day law enforcement. I look forward to learning how the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing can utilize such technology to promote community policing and foster confidence in local communities. “We need to use every resource at our disposal, both at the local and federal level, to ensure that we are effectively targeting crime reduction without compromising the civil rights of our citizens. Without a strong relationship based on trust and understanding, local law enforcement and the communities that they protect will be unable to work together to improve the public safety of our neighborhoods.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
12.17.2014	With this move comes a renewed leadership in the Americas and a valuable opportunity for improved human rights conditions and democratic reforms throughout the region. This landmark shift in policy proves that although change never comes easy or swiftly, at the end of the day, it does come. Now is the time to support the difficult work ahead to ensure that this historic opportunity is not wasted. share: f t Washington, DC – In response to recent actions by the White House to reestablish diplomatic relations with Cuba, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “After decades of an embargo-first and embargo-only strategy of pursuing our foreign policy interests, I enthusiastically welcome the White House’s new approach to Cuba. This historic move to break the deadlock shifts America away from the days of the 1960s and has the potential to unlock a mutually beneficial future between the U.S. and the Cuban people. “With this move comes a renewed leadership in the Americas and a valuable opportunity for improved human rights conditions and democratic reforms throughout the region. This landmark shift in policy proves that although change never comes easy or swiftly, at the end of the day, it does come. Now is the time to support the difficult work ahead to ensure that this historic opportunity is not wasted. “As we celebrate the end of generations of isolation and a new era in U.S.-Cuban relations, let us also rejoice in knowledge that soon, American contractor Alan Gross will be reunited with his family after suffering from five years of imprisonment. His release signifies another critical step toward normalization and increased engagement between our countries. There is no doubt that this will be an unforgettable Hanukkah for the Gross family.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
12.15.2014	While it is clear that the President's actions are well within his authority, you have instead decided to involve the state of Wisconsin in a political and frivolous lawsuit against the President. A bipartisan group of Attorneys General from 18 other states sent a letter last Friday to congressional leadership urging Congress to come together and fix our broken immigration system, particularly in light of the temporary nature of President Obama's actions. Rather than joining these efforts to break through dysfunction and gridlock in Congress, you have decided that the State of Wisconsin will side with those who seek political points at the expense of the progress that our country desperately needs. share: f t Washington, DC – In response to the recent decision to include Wisconsin in a Republican-led lawsuit against President Obama’s executive actions on immigration, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent the following letter to Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen: The Honorable J.B. Van HollenAttorney General, State of WisconsinRoom 114 East, State CapitolMadison, Wisconsin, 53707 Attorney General Van Hollen: I write this letter to express my sincere disappointment in your decision to involve Wisconsin in a federal lawsuit against the President’s recent immigration actions. I believe that this lawsuit is not only likely to fail, but that it is politically motivated and a waste of resources that could be used for other far more pressing issues facing Wisconsin. As you may know, prominent legal scholars and attorneys have concluded that the President’s actions are well within his executive authority. For example, a recent letter written by a consortium of law professors from Yale, University of Chicago, Columbia, New York University, Duke, and Harvard, came to the conclusion that, “[these actions] are consistent with governing law and with the policies that Congress has expressed in the statutes that it has enacted.” In a separate letter on November 25, 2014, 135 law professors stated that “[the President’s actions] are within the legal authority of the executive branch of the government of the United States.” In addition, the Office of Legal Counsel within the Department of Justice issued a lengthy Memorandum Opinion to the President and the Secretary of Homeland Security articulating the extensive legal authority for the actions taken by the President. While it is clear that the President’s actions are well within his authority, you have instead decided to involve the state of Wisconsin in a political and frivolous lawsuit against the President. A bipartisan group of Attorneys General from 18 other states sent a letter last Friday to congressional leadership urging Congress to come together and fix our broken immigration system, particularly in light of the temporary nature of President Obama’s actions. Rather than joining these efforts to break through dysfunction and gridlock in Congress, you have decided that the State of Wisconsin will side with those who seek political points at the expense of the progress that our country desperately needs. While attacking an estimated 5 million immigrant parents and children who pose no threat to this country may be expedient for the short-term political goals of your party, it does nothing to protect the people of Wisconsin. I urge you to consider the many benefits of President Obama’s immigration action. The President’s actions will protect public safety in Wisconsin by reinforcing community policing and cooperation among local law enforcement and immigrant communities and directing scarce federal enforcement resources against those few immigrants who pose a threat to the nation and the people of Wisconsin. Granting protection and work authorization to low priority immigrants will also contribute to our economy. According to one estimate, these actions will contribute billions of dollars in payroll taxes nationwide in the first year alone. It will also lead to $19 million in additional state and local tax revenues over 5 years. Undoing protections that will help to keep American families together is simply inhumane and against our nation’s core values. Rather than focusing on such frivolous and fiscally counterproductive actions, I urge your office to focus its attention on other more pressing matters currently facing the citizens of Wisconsin. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
12.02.2014	The passage of the Native American Housing and Self-Determination Act Reauthorization of 2014 (NAHASDA) is a victory for our proud Native American brothers and sisters and for those committed to making America a more prosperous and equitable place to call home. I am proud of my Democratic and Republican colleagues for uniting behind our shared goal of strengthening Native American communities through tribal housing. share: f t Washington, DC – In response to the bipartisan passage of the Native American Housing and Self-Determination Act Reauthorization of 2014 (NAHASDA), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "The passage of the Native American Housing and Self-Determination Act Reauthorization of 2014 (NAHASDA) is a victory for our proud Native American brothers and sisters and for those committed to making America a more prosperous and equitable place to call home. I am proud of my Democratic and Republican colleagues for uniting behind our shared goal of strengthening Native American communities through tribal housing. "This piece of critical legislation will help expand access to affordable housing and includes several vital reforms that will reinforce Native American sovereignty and provide the platform necessary to thrive on tribal land. Now, we can finally help tribal communities across the nation focus less on administrative requirements and bureaucratic red tape and more on innovation and expanding employment opportunities for generations to come. "Today’s successful reauthorization is a refreshing example of what is possible when Democrats and Republicans are willing to set aside their differences and find common ground. I urge those in the Senate to follow in our footsteps and swiftly adopt this legislation." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
11.24.2014	The grief and frustration of the American people is justified and understandable, especially as we struggle to address the highly polarized relationship between law enforcement and young black men. The unnecessary loss of Michael Brown's young life should urge all Americans to recommit to reconciliation during this dark time. As we reflect on the grand jury's decision, let us move toward honoring the dignity and value of Michael's life. The Brown family continues to be in my thoughts and prayers. share: f t Washington, DC — In response to the decision of the Ferguson Grand Jury not to indict Officer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "The grief and frustration of the American people is justified and understandable, especially as we struggle to address the highly polarized relationship between law enforcement and young black men. The unnecessary loss of Michael Brown's young life should urge all Americans to recommit to reconciliation during this dark time. As we reflect on the grand jury’s decision, let us move toward honoring the dignity and value of Michael's life. The Brown family continues to be in my thoughts and prayers." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
11.20.2014	As we move ahead, I look forward to working with President Obama and my congressional colleagues in pursing a comprehensive, bipartisan bill that will finally fix this outdated system. Democrats are up to the task. I look to my Republican counterparts to set aside the rhetoric and join us. share: f t Washington, D.C. – In response to President Obama’s national address regarding executive action on immigration, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "I fully support President Obama in his pursuit to address our painfully dysfunctional immigration system. Such efforts demonstrate the President’s unwavering commitment in cultivating a more compassionate and just society. "While Republicans continue to suggest government shutdowns and impeachment hearings, I would like to remind them that the President is acting well within his legal executive authority, the same authority employed by every President since Eisenhower, including five Republican Presidents. Despite partisan attempts to instill panic and anger into this critical debate, I have faith that the American public will see past these fear tactics and appreciate the commonsense approach outlined by the President. “As we move ahead, I look forward to working with President Obama and my congressional colleagues in pursing a comprehensive, bipartisan bill that will finally fix this outdated system. Democrats are up to the task. I look to my Republican counterparts to set aside the rhetoric and join us." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
11.10.2014	I knew Polly not only as a colleague and mentor, but as a cherished friend. Polly, however powerful, perfected the •servant leader' model. She inspired me and other legislators across Wisconsin, demonstrating honest leadership through service. As an example, she prepared meals for bereaved families stricken by tragedy and provided her entire community for the annual free holiday feast. She was an example not only to those who wished to serve, but also to all who shared her eagerness to make a difference in their community. share: f t Washington, DC -- In recognition of the passing of Annette Polly Williams, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "Annette Polly Williams was a political powerhouse in Wisconsin and in the nation, leaving behind a proud, historic legacy of public service. She was fiercely independent, a free thinker whose determination was only matched by her compassion and concern for her constituents. “I knew Polly not only as a colleague and mentor, but as a cherished friend. Polly, however powerful, perfected the ‘servant leader’ model. She inspired me and other legislators across Wisconsin, demonstrating honest leadership through service. As an example, she prepared meals for bereaved families stricken by tragedy and provided her entire community for the annual free holiday feast. She was an example not only to those who wished to serve, but also to all who shared her eagerness to make a difference in their community. “Thank you, our beloved ‘Polly,’ for leaving us with your eternal flame of service that will continue to ignite us as we work with renewed fervor to serve the people.” ### Twitter l Facebook l WebsiteLike us on Facebook
10.31.2014	Every week this month, our office has posted resources, links, and stories about the struggle faced by those whose lives have been effected by this reprehensible practice. We've highlighted the complexities in our legal justice system, underscored the shocking statistics of intimate partner violence in the LGBTQ community, and promoted the noble work of our local businesses in raising money for critical domestic violence education programs. Washington, D.C. – In recognition of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement: "Domestic Violence Awareness Month is time for all Americans to unite in support of those who have been victimized through partner abuse, exploitation, and aggression. Domestic violence doesn’t discriminate; it impacts the lives of every American, regardless of party affiliation, economic, or social distinctions. "Every week this month, our office has posted resources, links, and stories about the struggle faced by those whose lives have been effected by this reprehensible practice. We’ve highlighted the complexities in our legal justice system, underscored the shocking statistics of intimate partner violence in the LGBTQ community, and promoted the noble work of our local businesses in raising money for critical domestic violence education programs. "As we conclude Domestic Violence Awareness Month, we must remain steadfast in our efforts to educate and mobilize our communities in putting an end to this affront to human rights." If you or a loved one is in crisis, please use the resources provided below: Asha Family Services, Inc.Milwaukee, Wisconsin414-875-1511 crisis414-671-6140 After hrs. Women's Crisis Line414-875-1511 businesshttp://www.ashafamilyservices.org Latina Resource Center - UMOSMilwaukee, Wisconsin414-389-6510www.umos.org Daystar, IncMilwaukee, Wisconsin414-385-0334www.daystarinc.org Hmong American Women's AssociationMilwaukee, Wisconsin877-740-4292 toll-free crisis414-342-0858 business Milwaukee LGBT Community Center Antiviolence ProjectMilwaukee, Wisconsin414-271-2656www.mkelgbt.org/anti-violence-program Milwaukee Women's Center/Community Advocates, Inc.Milwaukee, Wisconsin414-671-6140 crisis414-449-4777 business414.671.1440 TTYwww.mwcinc.org South East Asian Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault - HAFAMilwaukee, Wisconsin414-322-9522 crisis888-345-5898 toll-free414-344-6575 businesswww.hmongamer.org ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
10.23.2014	As you know, there have been several major changes in the past month regarding Wisconsin's voter ID law (Act 23). Many election officials and voters have expressed confusion about the state of the voter ID requirements, and we are extremely concerned that Wisconsinites may be unfairly denied the right to cast their ballots. We write this letter to request election monitors and any other resources the Department of Justice can provide to oversee the elections in Wisconsin, especially in light of calls for individuals to challenge eligible voters at the polls. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC -- In response to concerns over voter confusion and potential vigilantism in the upcoming Wisconsin election, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02), and Congressman Ron Kind (WI-03) wrote the following letter to the Department of Justice requesting resources and election monitors: Dear Attorney General Holder and Acting Assistant Attorney General Gupta, As you know, there have been several major changes in the past month regarding Wisconsin’s voter ID law (Act 23). Many election officials and voters have expressed confusion about the state of the voter ID requirements, and we are extremely concerned that Wisconsinites may be unfairly denied the right to cast their ballots. We write this letter to request election monitors and any other resources the Department of Justice can provide to oversee the elections in Wisconsin, especially in light of calls for individuals to challenge eligible voters at the polls. In April of this year, Judge Adelman, a U.S. District Court judge, enjoined Act 23, finding that 300,000 Wisconsinites likely lacked the proper form of identification needed and that the law disproportionately burdened African Americans and Latinos. Despite these concerning findings, the United States Court of Appeals Seventh Circuit recklessly lifted Judge Adelman’s injunction on September 12th. Subsequently, the Government Accountability Board (GAB) announced that Act 23 would be enforced for the first time since March of 2012, with a little over a month and a half before the elections. The United States Supreme Court has since granted an emergency request to stay the Seventh Circuit’s decision, effectively eliminating the voter ID requirements for the November 4th election. While we are pleased the Court decided to temporarily block this onerous law, we are concerned that widespread confusion regarding the law prevails. The decision to block this law came after a critical period where the Government Accountability Board (GAB) and others within the state informed voters of the new requirements. Immediately following the Seventh Circuit’s ruling to lift the injunction on the voter ID law, the Government Accountability Board revealed that over 11,000 absentee voters had already received absentee ballots without voter ID instructions, and that extraordinary efforts would be undertaken to inform these voters of a new requirement that a photocopy of identification would be required before their ballot was counted. Throughout this string of federal court actions, many of these voters and other Wisconsinites have likely received conflicting information about the election requirements. Going forward, it is imperative that the Department of Justice help to ensure that clear and accurate information is disseminated from now until Election Day. Additionally, we are deeply concerned about a news report that Milwaukee County Election Commissioner Rick Baas recently urged a crowd of volunteers to exercise vigilantism for voter fraud and challenge voters who are suspected of improperly voting. As you know, there is scant evidence that in-person voter fraud exists in Wisconsin or throughout the country. Such in-person challenges are likely to be used improperly, and they would dissuade voters from exercising their right to vote. Simply stated, intimidation at our polls is unacceptable and we must do everything in our power to ensure unfettered access to the polls. We ask that the Department of Justice monitor and document any such cases and take any necessary actions. Thank you for your commitment to voting rights in the state of Wisconsin, and I hope we can work together to ensure a fair and transparent election. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS Tammy BaldwinUNITED STATES SENATOR Mark PocanMEMBER OF CONGRESS Ron KindMEMBER OF CONGRESS CC: Chris Herren, Chief, Voting Section, Civil Rights Division, US Department of Justice ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
10.15.2014	Understandably, many Americans have grown increasingly worried about the recent confirmed cases of Ebola within our country's borders. This response is certainly reasonable, and I share my constituent's concern, but it is important to ensure that our alarm about this virus doesn't lead to unreasonable and dangerous actions. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC -- In response to criticism regarding the handling of Ebola cases by local and federal officials within the United States, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “Understandably, many Americans have grown increasingly worried about the recent confirmed cases of Ebola within our country’s borders. This response is certainly reasonable, and I share my constituent's concern, but it is important to ensure that our alarm about this virus doesn’t lead to unreasonable and dangerous actions. “Dr. Tom Frieden and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) are working tirelessly to continue educating the public about transmission risks, safety protocols, and the on-the-ground federal response in a calm, constructive fashion. Unfortunately, many of my congressional colleagues have let their anxiety about this crisis dictate a panicked and perilous tone during a time when we need a cautious yet vigilant discussion. “Those like Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI) have suggested instituting a travel ban to and from West Africa. This idea may seem like a quick fix but in reality, isolating West Africa will only exacerbate the epidemic in the region. Aside from being impractical, this reactionary strategy will force Ebola patients underground making it nearly impossible to track their movements, hinder the capacity for international healthcare workers to transport and administer critical aid, and erode the continent’s fragile economy. “If Senator Johnson and his colleagues are looking for a silver bullet to address Ebola, they will be sorely disappointed to learn that such a thing doesn’t exist. Those calling for travel bans need to remember that it is paramount for us as elected officials to inform, not inflame. We need to continue to support the CDC in their efforts to quell this threat in a sensible and reasoned manner.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
10.09.2014	This decision by the Supreme Court is one that should be celebrated by everyone, regardless of political affiliation. This is truly a victory for the good people of Wisconsin and our shared democratic ideals. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC -- In response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling to block implementation of Wisconsin’s discriminatory voter ID law, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: “I welcome this Supreme Court ruling and the strong message it sends to all who think they can manipulate our voting laws just because they disagree with what we have to say. Those who trample on our civil liberties with impunity in pursuit of political supremacy forget that this nation was built on the principle that we all are ‘created equal.’ “These unjust laws have nothing to do with stopping the manufactured threat of voter fraud and everything to do with making it harder for more eligible voters to register and vote. Equal participation in our democracy is vital to our civilized way of life. Politicians and elected officials who are passing these discriminatory laws are focused on defeating their opponents, not voter fraud. “This decision by the Supreme Court is one that should be celebrated by everyone, regardless of political affiliation. This is truly a victory for the good people of Wisconsin and our shared democratic ideals.” ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
10.06.2014	For the people of the great state of Wisconsin, our diversity is a source of strength. My constituents have stood by my side as we fought together against intolerance and discrimination. We have worked tirelessly to make Milwaukee a community of inclusion and respect for all. I am proud of our collective efforts and even more proud to report that Milwaukee clerks will soon begin issuing licenses to same-sex couples. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC -- In response to the U.S. Supreme Court decision to deny review of circuit court rulings in favor of marriage equality in Wisconsin, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) issued the following statement: "I was elated to learn that our LGBT brothers and sisters will soon be able to legally marry the ones they love. The U.S. Supreme Court’s rejection of appeals from Wisconsin and four other states seeking to prohibit gay marriage is truly a historic victory for love and equality. "For the people of the great state of Wisconsin, our diversity is a source of strength. My constituents have stood by my side as we fought together against intolerance and discrimination. We have worked tirelessly to make Milwaukee a community of inclusion and respect for all. I am proud of our collective efforts and even more proud to report that Milwaukee clerks will soon begin issuing licenses to same-sex couples." ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
10.01.2014	From a lack of access to dependable transportation and matters of convenience to those with serious physical limitations, voters who choose to vote absentee, often do this for a number of different reasons. As a result, we know it will be more difficult, and in some cases impossible, for many of these absentee voters to come into compliance with the requirements of Act 23. That is why I am skeptical of the GAB's current plan to write letters to the 11,000 voters who have already been issued absentee ballots to request that they provide photocopied photo identification with their returned absentee ballot. share: f t WASHINGTON, DC -- In response to concerns about the Government Accountability Board (GAB)’s plan to require photocopied IDs from over 11,000 voters who were mailed absentee ballots without voter ID instructions, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) sent the following letter to Kevin J. Kennedy of the GAB: October 1, 2014 Kevin J. KennedyDirector and General CounselState of Wisconsin Government Accountability Board I am writing to express my concern with the Government Accountability Board (GAB)’s plan to require photocopied identifications from over 11,000 voters who were mailed absentee ballots prior to the recent court decision that allowed for the implementation of Act 23 in this election. I fear that the GAB guidance on this matter is inadequate and will result in thousands of Wisconsin voters being disenfranchised. From a lack of access to dependable transportation and matters of convenience to those with serious physical limitations, voters who choose to vote absentee, often do this for a number of different reasons. As a result, we know it will be more difficult, and in some cases impossible, for many of these absentee voters to come into compliance with the requirements of Act 23. That is why I am skeptical of the GAB’s current plan to write letters to the 11,000 voters who have already been issued absentee ballots to request that they provide photocopied photo identification with their returned absentee ballot. Even if these letters reach all 11,000 voters, these voters now have received contradictory information from the GAB on how to cast their ballot. Given how important it is that every vote is counted, will there any follow-up communication with these absentee voters to ensure they received the new instructions for proper absentee ballot submission? Will the GAB consider being flexible with this photo ID requirement with those voters they cannot reach and how rigorous will these outreach efforts be on your part? Additionally, I have read news accounts claiming that the GAB will invalidate absentee ballots that have already been submitted that do not include a photocopy of an ID. Will the GAB notify those voters that their ballots will not be counted? I would appreciate a prompt written response to each of my questions. The right to vote is paramount, and I believe that the burden is on the GAB to ensure that such an abrupt and burdensome electoral law change reflected in Act 23 is done in proper way to ensure that not one Wisconsin citizen is inadvertently denied their basic right to vote. Sincerely,Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS CC: Judge Thomas Barland, Chair, State of Wisconsin Government Accountability ### Twitter l Facebook l Website
09.30.2014	Drug testing as a condition of eligibility for critical, life-saving social services is a gross insult to Wisconsin's struggling families, Rep. Moore said. "The insinuation that those battling poverty are somehow more susceptible to substance abuse is as absurd as it is offensive. Governor Walker needs to focus less on finding ways to discriminate against Wisconsin's most vulnerable and focus more on fixing his failed policies that contributed to our state's current economic trouble." share: f t Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today U.S. Reps. Mark Pocan (WI-02) and Gwen S. Moore (WI-04) wrote Governor Scott Walker to request details about his proposal to require mandatory drug testing for recipients of FoodShare and Unemployment Insurance. The signed letter is available here. “It is time Governor Scott Walker stop blaming the poor for being poor,” Rep. Pocan said. “Before coming up with new, costly, and ineffective policies, Governor Walker needs to first explain to Wisconsin taxpayers how he intends to address next year’s projected $1.9 billion deficit.” “Drug testing as a condition of eligibility for critical, life-saving social services is a gross insult to Wisconsin’s struggling families,” Rep. Moore said. “The insinuation that those battling poverty are somehow more susceptible to substance abuse is as absurd as it is offensive. Governor Walker needs to focus less on finding ways to discriminate against Wisconsin’s most vulnerable and focus more on fixing his failed policies that contributed to our state’s current economic trouble.” According to Hunger Task Force, states that have adopted drug testing policies have consistently demonstrated that they are invasive, costly, and constitutionally unsound. In 2011, Florida passed a similar drug testing requirement, which courts eventually ruled was unconstitutional. Florida Governor Rick Scott implemented drug testing for all recipients of federal benefits and state workers. The law required applicants to pay for the test and allowed denial of benefits to anyone who refused testing. From July-September 2011, only 9 failures were recorded, while 565 individuals were declined benefits due to refusal. Given that these are low-income individuals, denying benefits to those who refuse to participate assumes those individuals are drug users when in fact they may simply be unable to afford the test. By 2014, courts have repeatedly deemed the process unconstitutional, yet Florida spent nearly $400,000 defending the program in court. Only 2.6 percent of recipients in Florida tested positive for narcotics – below the national average – and the program cost more tax dollars to implement than it saved in denying benefits. ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.25.2014	The resignation of Attorney General Eric Holder is a great loss for our country. As one of the Obama Administration's leading progressive voices, Attorney General Holder led the charge in support of same-sex marriage, protecting our voting rights, and addressing the inequities in our criminal justice system. As the first African-American to serve as Attorney General, his honorable legacy of justice is nothing less than historic. share: f t Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 Washington, DC -- Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in response to Attorney General Eric Holder’s announcement that he will be resigning from the Department of Justice: "The resignation of Attorney General Eric Holder is a great loss for our country. As one of the Obama Administration’s leading progressive voices, Attorney General Holder led the charge in support of same-sex marriage, protecting our voting rights, and addressing the inequities in our criminal justice system. As the first African-American to serve as Attorney General, his honorable legacy of justice is nothing less than historic. "I have faith that President Obama will nominate a successor who not only shares Attorney General Holder's commitment to social justice, but one who will follow in his footsteps in tackling the pressing issues facing Americans today. "From defending our country against acts of terror to protecting us against those who continue to target our civil rights, we owe Attorney General Holder our sincerest gratitude for his dedicated service to our nation. I wish him nothing but success in his future endeavors." ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.17.2014	My constituents have been crystal clear in their staunch opposition to arming •moderate' factions in Syria. Despite my support for the Administration's targeted operations against ISIL forces to date, I cannot support a plan that fails to include strong diplomatic, political, and economic components. I fear the consequences of pursuing such a plan that rejects these critical elements will have lasting consequences for America and her interests for years to come. share: f t Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement explaining her vote against U.S. military action in Syria: “My constituents have been crystal clear in their staunch opposition to arming ‘moderate’ factions in Syria. Despite my support for the Administration’s targeted operations against ISIL forces to date, I cannot support a plan that fails to include strong diplomatic, political, and economic components. I fear the consequences of pursuing such a plan that rejects these critical elements will have lasting consequences for America and her interests for years to come. “I agree with President Obama that we must remain vigilant as threats emerge but we must do so in a manner that effectively addresses America’s long term goals in the region. Although I commend the President in his pursuit in building an international coalition to combat the threat posed by ISIL, the United States can ill afford to be the sole leader in such an effort. As a nation, we must engage a true partnership with our global allies, grounded in international cooperation, where the burden is equally shared between partners. We must refrain from repeating the same mistakes of previous administrations.” ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.16.2014	Enforcing Act 23 for the November election will also cause widespread confusion for voters and election officials. Until the Seventh Circuit decision last Friday, it is my understanding that election officials were operating under the assumption that no voter ID law would be in place. For example, it has been reported that over 11,000 absentee ballots have already been mailed without voter ID instructions. Further, it would be a tremendous burden on the state to sufficiently train 1,852 municipal clerks and countless poll workers before the election. share: f t In response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter ID law, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent the following letter to Kevin J. Kennedy of the Wisconsin Government Accountability Board: September 16, 2014 Kevin J. KennedyDirector and General CounselState of Wisconsin Government Accountability Board212 East Washington Ave., Third Floor, P.O. Box 7984Madison, WI 53707 Dear Mr. Kennedy, Following the decision on Friday by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, the injunction blocking Wisconsin’s voter ID law (Act 23) has now been lifted and the state is free to begin its enforcement. I am writing this letter to request that you wait until after the November election to begin implementing Act 23 because of the irreparable harm and mass confusion it will cause. As you are well aware, there are numerous studies demonstrating the harm that will occur to voters who lack qualifying forms of identification under voter ID laws like Act 23. In Wisconsin, U.S. District Judge Lynn Adelman recently found that an estimated 300,000, or about 9% of Wisconsin voters, lacked a qualifying ID under Act 23’s strict requirements. It also comes as no surprise that Act 23 would disproportionately affect certain vulnerable subpopulations, including seniors, students, African Americans, Hispanics, and other people of color. Despite these facts, it is deeply concerning to hear reports that the state intends to fully implement this pernicious law that could disenfranchise so many voters’ fundamental rights in a democratic society. Enforcing Act 23 for the November election will also cause widespread confusion for voters and election officials. Until the Seventh Circuit decision last Friday, it is my understanding that election officials were operating under the assumption that no voter ID law would be in place. For example, it has been reported that over 11,000 absentee ballots have already been mailed without voter ID instructions. Further, it would be a tremendous burden on the state to sufficiently train 1,852 municipal clerks and countless poll workers before the election. It is also disturbing that there have been no public education efforts on voter ID for over two years, and many of my constituents in the Fourth Congressional District are unaware that they will need to obtain an ID. Moreover, the new ‘free ID’ guidance, in response to the Wisconsin Supreme Court ruling, is untested and likely to be insufficient to provide IDs to everyone who is lacking in light of the short time frame. It is frankly irresponsible for you to immediately implement such a major change in our election law with the November 4th election date (and even sooner considering in-person absentee voting begins on October 20th). If you do decide to move forward with the Act’s implementation, I urge you to explain: 1) how you will implement the Act’s identification requirements without disenfranchising any Wisconsin citizen’s democratic right to vote; 2) how you will handle the absentee ballots that have already been issued without instructions; and 3) how you plan to deal with those Wisconsin voters who are unable to get a free identification card (under your new guidelines) before election day. Clear and concise guidelines are integral to any implementation of this Act, and it is your duty to ensure that our elections are conducted in a fair and transparent manner. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS CC: Judge Thomas Barland, Chair, State of Wisconsin Government Accountability BoardCC: The Honorable J.B. Van Hollen, Attorney General, State of Wisconsin ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.15.2014	I find it shameful that Governor Walker has chosen to drug test our struggling Wisconsin families as a condition of eligibility for vital, life-saving social services. The insinuation that those battling poverty are somehow more susceptible to substance abuse is as absurd as it is offensive. Drug addition and subsistence abuse knows no economic or social distinctions. This discriminatory policy is devoid of any scientific credibility and has proven in the past to be fiscally irresponsible and a colossal waste of our time. share: f t Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement regarding Governor Scott Walker's push to drug test recipients of public benefits: "I find it shameful that Governor Walker has chosen to drug test our struggling Wisconsin families as a condition of eligibility for vital, life-saving social services. The insinuation that those battling poverty are somehow more susceptible to substance abuse is as absurd as it is offensive. Drug addiction and substance abuse knows no economic or social distinctions. This discriminatory policy is devoid of any scientific credibility and has proven in the past to be fiscally irresponsible and a colossal waste of our time. "Forcing the most vulnerable among us to choose between feeding their families and protecting their constitutionally protected rights is disgraceful, even for Governor Walker’s standards. Governor Walker’s insistence on holding critical government aid hostage to appease the likes of the Tea Party is abhorrent to the values we cherish as Americans. "We have the capacity to ensure a bright future for those living in poverty and provide them with the economic security they need to support their families and thrive, but there are those on the fringe of the Republican Party who continue to stand in the way. I look forward to the day when Wisconsin can welcome a Governor who is truly committed to helping our working families regain their economic footing." ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.12.2014	This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman GwenWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-d4) released the following statement in response to the 7thWashington, D.C. – Today, CongresswomanWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law:Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law:Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law: "This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. "I am disappointed and appalled that Republican-appointed judges on the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit are permitting Governor Walker’s discriminatory voter ID law to go forward. The decision is even more frustrating knowing that the preeminent judge on the 7th Circuit, Judge Richard Posner, has publically stated his mistake in supporting voter ID laws in the past, calling them 'a type of law now widely regarded as a means of voter suppression rather than of fraud prevention.' "I agree with Judge Posner and firmly believe that the Wisconsin voter ID law is meant to suppress voter participation." *Posner quote comes from his book Reflections on Judging and is in reference to his case Crawford v. Marion County Election Board. ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on FacebookLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law: “This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. “I am disappointed and appalled that Republican-appointed judges on the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit are permitting Governor Walker’s discriminatory voter ID law to go forward. The decision is even more frustrating knowing that the preeminent judge on the 7th Circuit, Judge Richard Posner, has publically stated his mistake in supporting voter ID laws in the past, calling them ‘a type of law now widely regarded as a means of voter suppression rather than of fraud prevention.’ “I agree with Judge Posner and firmly believe that the Wisconsin voter ID law is meant to suppress voter participation.” *Posner quote comes from his book Reflections on Judging and is in reference to his case Crawford v. Marion County Election Board. ### Follow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreLike Gwen Moore on FacebookWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law: “This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. “I am disappointed and appalled that Republican-appointed judges on the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit are permitting Governor Walker’s discriminatory voter ID law to go forward. The decision is even more frustrating knowing that the preeminent judge on the 7th Circuit, Judge Richard Posner, has publically stated his mistake in supporting voter ID laws in the past, calling them ‘a type of law now widely regarded as a means of voter suppression rather than of fraud prevention.’ “I agree with Judge Posner and firmly believe that the Wisconsin voter ID law is meant to suppress voter participation.” *Posner quote comes from his book Reflections on Judging and is in reference to his case Crawford v. Marion County Election Board. ### Follow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreLike Gwen Moore on FacebookWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law: “This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. “I am disappointed and appalled that Republican-appointed judges on the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit are permitting Governor Walker’s discriminatory voter ID law to go forward. The decision is even more frustrating knowing that the preeminent judge on the 7th Circuit, Judge Richard Posner, has publically stated his mistake in supporting voter ID laws in the past, calling them ‘a type of law now widely regarded as a means of voter suppression rather than of fraud prevention.’ “I agree with Judge Posner and firmly believe that the Wisconsin voter ID law is meant to suppress voter participation.” *Posner quote comes from his book Reflections on Judging and is in reference to his case Crawford v. Marion County Election Board. ### Follow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreLike Gwen Moore on FacebookCircuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law: “This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. “I am disappointed and appalled that Republican-appointed judges on the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit are permitting Governor Walker’s discriminatory voter ID law to go forward. The decision is even more frustrating knowing that the preeminent judge on the 7th Circuit, Judge Richard Posner, has publically stated his mistake in supporting voter ID laws in the past, calling them ‘a type of law now widely regarded as a means of voter suppression rather than of fraud prevention.’ “I agree with Judge Posner and firmly believe that the Wisconsin voter ID law is meant to suppress voter participation.” *Posner quote comes from his book Reflections on Judging and is in reference to his case Crawford v. Marion County Election Board. ### Follow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore(WI-4) released the following statement in response to the 7th Circuit’s ruling on Wisconsin’s voter photo ID law: “This decision is a grave injustice for those who lack the necessary photo identification that this law requires. Creating unnecessary barriers at the polls, barriers that would significantly impact low-income, elderly, and racial and ethnic minority voters, is a blatant violation of the basic principles of American democracy. “I am disappointed and appalled that Republican-appointed judges on the Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit are permitting Governor Walker’s discriminatory voter ID law to go forward. The decision is even more frustrating knowing that the preeminent judge on the 7th Circuit, Judge Richard Posner, has publically stated his mistake in supporting voter ID laws in the past, calling them ‘a type of law now widely regarded as a means of voter suppression rather than of fraud prevention.’ “I agree with Judge Posner and firmly believe that the Wisconsin voter ID law is meant to suppress voter participation.” *Posner quote comes from his book Reflections on Judging and is in reference to his case Crawford v. Marion County Election Board. ### Follow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.11.2014	There is certainly a need for an escalated military response against this mounting threat but such a response requires congressional oversight. As we move forward, it is vital that the Administration continue to build strong congressional support in confronting ISIL in the region. share: f t Contact: Eric Harris Eric.Harris@mail.house.gov(202) 341- 4293 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement regarding the President’s primetime address on ISIL: "I support President Obama and commend his leadership but I have yet to hear a strategy that embraces political, economic, and diplomatic components in addressing the ISIL threat. "A modern terror group like ISIL requires a modern anti-terrorism strategy built on a foundation of international cooperation. Such a strategy must include a global diplomatic effort combined with a focus on fostering political compromise within the Iraqi government and ending Syria’s bloody civil war. "There is certainly a need for an escalated military response against this mounting threat but such a response requires congressional oversight. As we move forward, it is vital that the Administration continue to build strong congressional support in confronting ISIL in the region." ### Follow Gwen Moore on TwitterLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.25.2014	We have a humanitarian obligation to protect vulnerable children fleeing from extreme violence and escaping the horrific situations they are faced with back home. share: f t Members call on Speaker Boehner to pass a clean supplemental spending bill to address humanitarian crisis at the border CONTACTBen Soskin (Rep. Roybal-Allard)(202) 225-1766or Staci Cox (Rep. Moore)(202) 225-4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) and members of the Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform wrote to Speaker John Boehner, urging him to pass a supplemental spending bill free of legislative riders. A clean supplemental will enable the federal government to appropriately care for child refugees from Central America without taking away their right to due process. The working group’s letter comes soon after House Republicans proposed undermining critical humanitarian and due process protections for these children, potentially endangering women and girls who are victims of sexual violence and trafficking. The full text of the letter is below. “The humanitarian crisis on our border is a test of our values as a nation,” said Rep. Roybal-Allard (CA-40). “Current law provides migrant children with appropriate due process, ensuring that our government does not return young girls back into the waiting arms of their traffickers. Unfortunately, the Republican Leadership is trying to eliminate these protections when they are needed most. Instead of bowing to political expediency, we should reject any effort to strip away due process for innocent children and fully fund President Obama’s request for emergency funding to address this heart-wrenching situation.” "We have a humanitarian obligation to protect vulnerable children fleeing from extreme violence and escaping the horrific situations they are faced with back home,” said Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04). “We must also work together, in a comprehensive manner, to address the causes of this mass migration. I urge Speaker Boehner to work with President Obama to positively and holistically respond to this crisis." “Stripping children of their due process rights is not a workable solution to address the humanitarian crisis at the southern border,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19). “We know that doing so would return vulnerable children to face further abuse or worse at the hands of their traffickers and others. Expanding the flawed and cursory process currently used to screen children from Mexico to all refugee children is not only wrong, but will make the problem worse. Victims will simply try to escape the violence again – but instead of seeking out Border Patrol agents for safety as they do now, they may try to avoid detection – and we will see more dead children in the desert as a result.” "We have a moral and legal responsibility as a nation to treat unaccompanied children with care and compassion,” said Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27). “The answer to this crisis cannot be fast-tracked repatriations that curtail due process and block children from seeking the protection our laws afford. Instead, we must pass the necessary emergency funding to achieve a comprehensive solution to this humanitarian crisis. There is no better time than now to show what American ideals are about and approach this situation with compassion and understanding." “I have served on the House Homeland Security Committee and the Border Security Subcommittee since its inception and I can say for certain that this is not a ‘border security’ problem,” said Rep. Loretta Sanchez (CA-46). “This is a complex humanitarian crisis that is a result of dire situations in these children’s home countries: escalating gang violence, weak government institutions, a lack of social services and economic opportunity. We must pass a clean funding bill immediately to address this crisis without distracting political theatre.” ________________________________________ July 25, 2014 The Honorable John A. BoehnerSpeakerUnited States House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner: Like most Americans, we are deeply troubled by the humanitarian crisis unfolding on our southwest border. As you know, President Obama is seeking approximately $3.7 billion in additional funding to address the causes and consequences of this heart-wrenching situation. While his request is far from perfect, the consequences of inaction by this Congress would be dire. We therefore write to urge you to bring a clean supplemental spending bill, free of legislative riders, to the floor as soon as possible. We strongly believe it would be inappropriate and contrary to our values to use this critical legislation as a means of undermining the essential protections afforded to vulnerable migrant children under current law. Driven by extreme violence in Central America, including sexual assault, trafficking, and persecution, tens of thousands of children have fled their homes in hopes of finding safe haven in the United States. Up to 40 percent are girls, many under the age of 12. These are young people like Jenny, age 15 from El Salvador. Jenny described to the Women’s Refugee Commission opening her front door and discovering pieces of a body thrown in a plastic bag. This horrific sight was a warning about what would happen to her if she did not become the ‘girlfriend’ of a gang member. And Josephina, a 16-year-old also from El Salvador, who recounted to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) that the head of a local gang told her that he would kidnap her or kill one of her family members if she refused to become his “girlfriend.” While Jenny and Josephina managed to escape, many others have not been so lucky. In Honduras, tragically, 80 minors were murdered in April and 102 were slain in May. Consistent with our heritage as a nation of immigrants, Americans have always treated people fleeing persecution with dignity and compassion. This time should be no different. Unfortunately, the recent surge of unaccompanied children has strained the ability of our government to meet their most basic needs. We understand that unless Congress acts, the Office of Refugee Resettlement may exhaust its current funding before the end of the current fiscal year. This is a complex problem that requires a comprehensive solution. We must work closely with our partners in the region to restore public order and promote human security in Central America. Investments in the security and economic development of these countries, including support for repatriation and reintegration and youth gang prevention efforts, are critical to stemming the flow of migrants. A true American commitment is essential if we are to address the root causes of this crisis. However, these efforts will take time. In the near term, we must respond sensibly and humanely to the heart-wrenching situation on our border. According to UNHCR, more than 50 percent of children 12 to 17 years old arriving from Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala may have claims to international protection. It would be contrary to our values as a nation to return them to communities where their lives would be placed in grave danger. It is therefore critical that we preserve due process and humanitarian protections for these vulnerable young people. This includes ensuring that they are provided adequate representation to navigate our complex legal system. While some changes to administrative protocols may be necessary and additional resources are certainly required to adjudicate cases in a fair and efficient manner, we believe the Administration can respond appropriately to this situation without undermining fundamental humanitarian protections for children. Specifically, we strongly oppose any proposal that would erode the protections contained in the 2008 trafficking law or unfairly expedite the screening of children who may be victims of horrible crimes and violence. Already, under current law, children from contiguous countries can be returned following only a cursory trafficking and persecution screening performed by Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers and agents. Although UNHCR recently found that 64% of unaccompanied Mexican children interviewed raised international protection concerns and the State Department regularly identifies Mexico as a large source country for child sex and labor trafficking, more than 95% of Mexican children were returned in Fiscal Year 2013 following this screening. According to a previously unreleased UNHCR report delivered to CBP just last month, the screenings are implemented in an inconsistent and ineffective manner. Children are questioned quickly and in public by agents and officers who have received no training in child-sensitive interview techniques. CBP personnel have a poor understanding of the legal definitions for persecution and trafficking, which raises the possibility that children are returned notwithstanding the need of further evaluation. In some instances, children are not advised of their rights and are asked to sign forms that were filled out in advance of the interview. We must not allow short-term political considerations to come before the long-term interests of innocent children. Thank you for your attention to this request. As members of the Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform, we look forward to working with you to swiftly pass a supplemental appropriations bill that will address the humanitarian crisis on our border in a way that enhances our security and upholds our American values. Sincerely, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-AllardCongresswoman Zoe LofgrenCongresswoman Judy ChuCongresswoman Debbie Wasserman SchultzCongresswoman Gwen MooreCongresswoman Linda T. SanchezCongresswoman Anna G. EshooCongresswoman Grace F. NapolitanoCongresswoman Barbara LeeCongresswoman Loretta SanchezCongresswoman Betty McCollumCongresswoman Donna F. EdwardsCongresswoman Doris Matsui ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.24.2014	I urge my Wisconsin colleague to continue the dialogue on the most effective ways to eradicate poverty. However, if we are going to have a real impact in the lives of our constituents, we need to change the conversation. Our poverty programs are not broken. They should be strengthened, not diminished. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after her Wisconsin colleague, Congressman Paul Ryan (WI-1), unveiled his plan to reduce poverty. “Poverty is a serious problem that touches far too many in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and throughout the nation. We must all engage in a serious dialogue and then act to ease the suffering of those we represent. I am pleased that Representative Ryan continues to bring his ideas to the table. I am grateful for his desire to positively address the problems in our prison system and assist low-income Americans through the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC); although I disagree on how he would fund the EITC expansion. “Unfortunately, it is clear that the overarching goal of his poverty plan is to ultimately cut our social safety net programs. When block granting is involved, all roads lead to cuts. Our vulnerable populations receive funding based on availability instead of need. Children, the elderly and people living with disabilities should not have to struggle in an evolutionary ‘survival of the fittest’ environment. “I urge my Wisconsin colleague to continue the dialogue on the most effective ways to eradicate poverty. However, if we are going to have a real impact in the lives of our constituents, we need to change the conversation. Our poverty programs are not broken. They should be strengthened, not diminished.” Congresswoman Moore is a member of the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.18.2014	We thank you for your commitment to preserving the right to vote for all Americans, and we ask that you use every tool at your disposal to help us protect the rights of our constituents in Wisconsin. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Moore) 202-225-4572Leah Hunter (Baldwin) 202-224-5653Peter Knudsen (Kind) 202-225-5506Alex Nguyen (Pocan) 202-226-6724 Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3) and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-2) sent a letter to United States Attorney General Eric Holder applauding his decision to fight voter disenfranchisement in Wisconsin, specifically Act 23, Wisconsin’s voter identification law. The Members write, “Act 23 is particularly harmful to our constituents because of the disproportionate impact it would have on seniors, students, African Americans, Hispanics and other vulnerable populations who are less likely to possess the forms of ID required under the Act... This law represents a blatant attempt to disenfranchise voters. We are deeply concerned that this law would have a negative impact on individuals’ ability to vote.” The letter continues, “We thank you for your commitment to preserving the right to vote for all Americans, and we ask that you use every tool at your disposal to help us protect the rights of our constituents in Wisconsin.” To read the full letter text, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.11.2014	Gun violence is a plague that steals the lives of far too many in our community. Each time we lose a life, our hearts break and the violence continues. We must all work together, on the local, state and federal levels, to thwart these crimes. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder asking him to partner with local officials to help reduce and prevent gun violence in Milwaukee. “Gun violence is a plague that steals the lives of far too many in our community. Each time we lose a life, our hearts break and the violence continues. “We must all work together, on the local, state and federal levels, to thwart these crimes. While common-sense gun violence reduction measures sit in legislative limbo, I am taking additional action now. I have asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to provide resources and support to our community. I know that these efforts alone will not solve our horrific problem, but neither will inaction. “While I wait for his response, we must look to one another. Every one of us has an invested interest in ending this senseless violence. I implore everyone to do our part to keep our children and our community safe.” To read the letter in full, please see below or click here. Dear Attorney General Holder: I am writing this letter to make you aware of a recent spike in gun violence in the Milwaukee area, and ask for any assistance and resources you are able to provide to help. As of June 16, 2014, thus far this year, 30 children have been shot in Milwaukee, 185 total nonfatal shootings have taken place, and 30 homicides have been committed. According to data from the Milwaukee Homicide Review Commission, there has also been a spike of recent gun violence. Specifically, 78 individuals have been victimized between May 18 and June 15, with 71 percent of the victims falling between 18 and 34 years of age. Seventy-four percent of the suspects range between 18 and 34 years of age. As you can imagine, community leaders and many of my constituents are concerned that we could experience a trend of violence continuing through the summer months in Milwaukee. Youth gun violence is particularly troublesome to me, because it not only snatches away the hopes and dreams of so many of our children, but it also devastates the families, friends, and neighbors who bear witness to our children being killed or taken from us. Moreover, the loss of our children to gun violence snuffs out our potential for so many talented youth who would be great contributors to our city and the country as a whole. We must put every option on the table to immediately halt this senseless violence that is plaguing our community. I am asking that the Department of Justice (DOJ) do everything in its power to assist Milwaukee in its efforts to reduce and stop gun violence. For example, it is my understanding that the Bureau of Justice Assistance has in the past granted emergency funding resources to assist localities facing a significant increase in the incidence of gun violence. Any such resources or related assistance would be instrumental in helping Milwaukee in its effort. Furthermore, I respectfully request that the DOJ does everything it can to partner with our law enforcement agencies currently on the ground in Milwaukee. It is also my understanding that the Bureau of Justice Assistance can offer training and technical assistance. These evidenced-based practices can greatly assist our policing efforts to reduce gang violence and bolster overall strategies to most effectively combat crimes. Lastly, I thank you for any efforts you have already made, and I encourage the DOJ to continue to work closely with our community stakeholders in identifying any other resources that can be helpful in these endeavors. Thank you again for your assistance in this matter. Sincerely, Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.09.2014	Today this •Do-Nothing Congress' has done something to bring jobs to the people we represent. In a rare bipartisan moment, we chose to create significant changes to the way we connect our constituents to the skills they need to thrive. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 803, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, by a near unanimous vote: “I am so proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and U.S. Capitol to pass the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act. This bipartisan House-Senate bill reforms our federal workforce development programs to better serve our business needs. This legislation streamlines services, strengthens program evaluation, helps states address local needs and works to connect workers with the skills they need to gain employment. Among other important provisions, the bill improves job training for people living with disabilities and works to assist our youth and adult learners. “Today this ‘Do-Nothing Congress’ has done something to bring jobs to the people we represent. In a rare bipartisan moment, we chose to create significant changes to the way we connect our constituents to the skills they need to thrive. The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act is a strong step towards expanding economic success to all Americans. I am excited for the job opportunities and innovation this bill will help foster, both in the Milwaukee area and in Wisconsin. “This jobs bill is an example of what can occur when we work together and place our people above our political affiliation. Meaningful action is what our constituents expect and deserve from their Members of Congress. I urge my colleagues to follow today’s example and continue to focus on the needs of the American people.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.02.2014	We cannot allow the Supreme Court of the United States, congressional gridlock or state legislatures to undo what our civil rights leaders have built. Congress must come together and pass a strengthened Voting Rights Act. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: “The Civil Rights Act of 1964 was one of the most important legislative accomplishments in American history. Its enactment into law profoundly and unalterably changed our nation. For the first time, discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin was illegal. “Today I join the nation to recognize the courage and determination of those who fought, bled and died for justice and equality. We honor so many figures of our past and present who struggled so that we may enjoy a more equal and just future. May their sacrifice never be forgotten or minimized. While we pay tribute to them and reflect on our significant progress, we also recognize that our struggle towards equality is far from over. “Although the years of legal discrimination in our country have ended, massive disparities still exist among our racial groups in access to health care, quality education and so many more factors that help determine our success. While we work to reduce these disparities and ensure that all of our children have access to opportunity and economic success, we must fight to protect one of our most basic rights as Americans – the right to vote. “We cannot allow the Supreme Court of the United States, congressional gridlock or state legislatures to undo what our civil rights leaders have built. Congress must come together and pass a strengthened Voting Rights Act. I urge my colleagues to carry the legacy of our heroes by fighting for all of our civil rights.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.30.2014	The extremely personal and private decision to take birth control should remain just that – personal and private. I urge my colleagues to stand on the right side of history and fight for access to women's health care. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after the Supreme Court of the United States decided, in a 5-4 ruling, that some for-profit companies can deny their employees birth control coverage. “Today our Supreme Court ruled against women and on the side of for-profit company owners who wish to impose their religious beliefs on their employees. “The owners of Hobby Lobby, a for-profit arts and crafts store, and Conestoga Wood, a for-profit wood furniture manufacturer, should have no voice when it comes to women's private health care decisions. Unfortunately the Supreme Court does not agree. This dangerous decision could have far reaching consequences, as it opens the door for employers to restrict access to other essential health care services such as vaccinations or blood transfusions. No one should be denied access to health care because of her employer’s religious beliefs. “Approximately 99 percent of sexually active women will use contraception at some point during their lives. In fact, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) has granted over 30 million women access to birth control coverage. Over 500,000 women in Wisconsin have benefited from the ACA’s preventive health care services. Although the majority of women will continue receiving birth control with no financial burden, women who are affected could soon feel the powerful, negative impact of the Supreme Court ruling. I stand with all women who may be forced to make a decision between paying for birth control and buying groceries. “Contraception coverage is a medical necessity that gives women the autonomy they need to plan their families and treat certain illnesses. The extremely personal and private decision to take birth control should remain just that – personal and private. I urge my colleagues to stand on the right side of history and fight for access to women’s health care.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.26.2014	The failure of House Republicans to effectively address our immigration needs is not only hurting our economy, it's unnecessarily injecting fear in our immigrant communities. share: f t Contact:Ben Soskin (Rep. Roybal-Allard)(202) 225-1766 Staci Cox (Rep. Moore)(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, on the eve of the one year anniversary of the passage of S. 744, the Senate comprehensive immigration reform bill, women leaders in Congress expressed their disappointment and frustration that Speaker Boehner and the House Republican leadership have failed to take action to fix our broken immigration system. Despite overwhelming support for reform among the American people, Republicans continue to obstruct meaningful progress on this critical issue, undermining the health, well-being and economic security of millions of immigrant women and families across America. “This week marks one year since the Senate passed comprehensive immigration reform legislation by a wide, bipartisan margin,” said Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), chair of the Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform. “In the year since that vote, House Republican Leaders have refused repeated requests from myself, my colleagues, and huge numbers of our fellow Americans to bring the Senate bill to a vote on the House floor. The plain truth is that our current immigration system is not working for immigrant women and their families. We badly need reforms that will enable these women to come out of the shadows and help to keep their families together. That’s exactly what the Senate’s immigration reform bill will do. For the sake of these women and the millions of American children they care for, protect, and support, we need a vote!” “One year since the Senate passed a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill, the House has yet to act,” said Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4). “The failure of House Republicans to effectively address our immigration needs is not only hurting our economy, it’s unnecessarily injecting fear in our immigrant communities. Our friends, families and neighbors cannot wait another year for Congress to do its job. House Republicans are out of excuses. We must act now.” “One year after the Senate passed bipartisan, comprehensive immigration reform, House Leadership still refuses to bring the bill to the floor for a vote. We need a comprehensive, long-term solution to boost our economy, reduce our deficit, and help our country move forward. The time is now for a vote on comprehensive immigration reform on the House floor. Our economy and families can’t wait any longer,” said Congresswoman Lois Capps (CA-24). “One year ago the Senate acted in a bipartisan fashion to take steps towards dealing with both border security and creating a path to citizenship for millions of aspiring Americans,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). “That the House of Representatives has not taken action is a disgrace. The country is demanding action in an area where it is long overdue. The time to act is now.” “It has been nearly one year since the Senate – Democrats and Republicans – voted to pass comprehensive immigration reform,” said Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27). “Yet, House Republicans continue to turn their backs on the will of a majority of Americans. With each passing day, countless women and children continue to feel the devastating impacts of inaction. While the Republicans have stonewalled legislative action there have been more than 72,000 deportations of parents with U.S. citizen children. The devastating consequences of these family separations will be felt for generations to come. I urge Speaker Boehner to listen to the American public and give them a vote on comprehensive immigration reform. “ “I continue to be extremely disappointed by the House Republicans’ refusal to act on comprehensive immigration reform,” said Congresswoman Dina Titus (NV-01). “Immigrant families and American businesses have now waited a full year since the Senate acted. That is 365 days too many. Comprehensive immigration reform will strengthen Nevada's economy, create jobs, promote innovation and entrepreneurship, protect workers, and provide a fair pathway to citizenship. I urge House Republicans to take immediate action on this critical issue.” “It is incredibly frustrating that House Republicans continue to ignore our broken immigration system,” Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-38). “Their inaction has very real human and economic costs. More than 11 million people who want to pay taxes and contribute to our great country are stuck in limbo. Each day that Republicans continue to delay action, is a day that approximately 1,100 families get separated. Passing comprehensive immigration reform would allow us to capitalize on the potential to create 159,000 new jobs and collect $1.25 billion in revenue over the next decade. It’s time for Speaker Boehner to cut the excuses- our country deserves a vote.” “It has been one year since the Senate passed immigration reform legislation, yet House Republicans continue stalling, making excuses and failing to act,” Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-7). “It is time to reform our nation’s broken immigration system in a way that honors families, fuels innovation and strengthens our economy for all Americans.” “A year ago, the Senate did its job by passing a bipartisan immigration bill, and since then Republican leadership has sat on its hands,” said Congresswoman Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01). “House Republicans have stalled any and all efforts to pass immigration reform. The time to act it now. Republicans need to join Democrats and work toward a comprehensive solution that will fix our broken immigration system, create jobs, and build a stronger economy.” “Our traditional family values as Americans should hold true to all people in our country,” said Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (CA-46). “The nucleus of any family is the mother and when we are in the business of breaking families apart, we lose those values that make our country great. It has been a year since the Senate acted, and House Republicans must now act and work with us to fix our broken immigration system.” “In the past year since the Senate passed immigration reform, our broken immigration system has continued to hurt America’s families, businesses, and economy,” said Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01). Businesses large and small are unable to hire the best and brightest from around the world, and farmers who need a stable workforce are calling for action on this issue. And in the absence of immigration reform, we are seeing too many families torn apart, and too many women and children separated from their families and forced to leave the country they call home. Our economy and millions of women and families can’t afford to wait any longer. We have a historic opportunity to fix the nation’s broken immigration system if House leadership would just let us vote. The time to act is now.” “After decades of inaction and gridlock, we were hopeful that the Senate’s passage of common sense bipartisan immigration reform would be a turning point in our mission to finally fix our nation’s broken system,” said Congresswoman Janice Hahn (CA-44). “One year later—we still haven’t gotten a vote in the House. It is past time for the House to act. Families across the country cannot wait any longer. The time is now to enact common sense, comprehensive immigration reform that reaffirms our values and honors our history as a nation of immigrants.” “I ask Speaker Boehner and the House Majority to do what is in the best interest for our country and economy, and listen to what millions of Americans across the nation are asking Congress to do: To address and fix the nation’s immigration system,” said Congresswoman Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35). "There are serious consequences to the failure of the House of Representatives to enact comprehensive immigration reform: millions of families threatened with deportation, men and women who want to work but cannot obtain legal authorization, parents who are afraid to send their children to school, and crime victims who cannot contact the police. We have the ability to resolve these problems, by negotiating in good faith for the benefit of our nation,” said Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke (NY-9). ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.26.2014	This month and always, I urge everyone in my district and across our nation to fully recognize and appreciate that our differences, including whom we love, do not weaken our nation; they strengthen it. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month. “Each year in June we celebrate the LGBT community and our progress towards realizing full equality for all people regardless of whom they love. This year, I was honored to celebrate with my LGBT friends as we learned that Wisconsin’s same-sex marriage ban was ruled unconstitutional. “Unfortunately this victory was only temporary, and same-sex marriages have been halted until a final ruling is made. In response, my Wisconsin colleagues Sen. Baldwin (D-WI), Rep. Kind (W-3), Rep. Pocan (WI-2) and I asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to federally recognize same-sex married couples in my state. I eagerly await his response. “While we wait on this and other cases in legal limbo, let us celebrate our marriage equality and workplace victories. One year ago today, the Supreme Court ruled that the Defense of Marriage Act is unconstitutional and upheld California's Proposition 8 lower court ruling. I am also excited by President Obama’s recent executive order prohibiting federal contractors from discriminating against LGBT employees. While I am pleased by these decisions, Congress must act as well. “I was so proud to introduce the Runaway and Homeless Youth Inclusion Act (RHYIA) last year. Among other important provisions, RHYIA would help ensure that LGBT youth have equal access to services and that grant recipients have the cultural competency to effectively serve these youth. However, this legislation is not enough. I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come together and do our part to fight prejudice and discrimination. “This month and always, I urge everyone in my district and across our nation to fully recognize and appreciate that our differences, including whom we love, do not weaken our nation; they strengthen it.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.25.2014	Contrary to Republican rhetoric, the Ex-Im Bank is not •crony capitalism.' It's a proven jobs engine. Allowing the Ex-Im Bank to close in September will inflict unnecessary harm to our economy, our communities and American businesses, large and small. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) renewed her drive for Congress to reauthorize the charter of the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank), the official export credit agency of the United States. “I have long supported the efforts of the Ex-Im Bank and the billions of dollars in economic activity it drives each year,” said Rep. Moore. “Contrary to Republican rhetoric, the Ex-Im Bank is not ‘crony capitalism.’ It’s a proven jobs engine. Allowing the Ex-Im Bank to close in September will inflict unnecessary harm to our economy, our communities and American businesses, large and small.” In Wisconsin, the Ex-Im Bank supported the export of $102 million of goods and services from 2012 to 2013. Nationwide, the Ex-Im Bank helped sustain more than 200,000 jobs by supporting approximately $37 billion in exports last year alone. “If it wasn’t evident before, today’s House Financial Services Committee hearing served as a perfect example of the intransigence of many in the Republican Party towards an effort that has traditionally enjoyed bipartisan support. I never would have imagined that Republicans would turn their backs on business, innovation and jobs. “I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to stop playing politics and to start advocating for the American people.” Congresswoman Moore is a proud original cosponsor of the Protect American Jobs and Exports Act of 2014, to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States. For a list of 865 organizations around the country that support reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank charter, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.25.2014	It has been one year since the Supreme Court opened the door for states to disenfranchise and discriminate against voters. This ruling, and the reluctance of Congress to strengthen the Voting Rights Act, pushed us miles backwards in our ongoing struggle towards equality. Let us come together to reauthorize the VRA. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) recognized the one year anniversary since the United States Supreme Court struck down a vital piece of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965. “It has been one year since the Supreme Court opened the door for states to disenfranchise and discriminate against voters,” said Rep. Moore. “This ruling, and the reluctance of Congress to strengthen the Voting Rights Act, pushed us miles backwards in our ongoing struggle towards equality.” Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 requires certain jurisdictions, with a history of racial discrimination, to gain preclearance before altering voting laws. Section 4 of the VRA determined which areas of our nation must comply with Section 5. On June 25, 2013, the Supreme Court made Section 5 toothless by striking down Section 4’s formula. Our highest court charged Congress with updating Section 4. “America should serve as a powerful example of democracy; yet Republicans across the country are attempting to silence voters through restrictive voting laws. Since the 2010 election, states in nearly half of the country, including Wisconsin, have passed voting restriction laws. Restricting our ability to vote is a shame and an affront to American principles. “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 is a vital piece of legislation that protects the centerpiece of our democracy – the right to vote. I am proud of the work my Wisconsin colleague, Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5), has done to reauthorize this Act. I urge my colleagues to follow his lead and come together, as we have done in the past, to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act and fight against discrimination at the polls.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.19.2014	On June 19, 149 years ago, enslaved individuals in Galveston, Texas learned that, by law, they could no longer be sold or forced to work, as the property of slave owners. This day was a profound moment in American history. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined Wisconsinites and Americans across the nation to celebrate Juneteenth. Juneteenth is the oldest national celebration recognizing the end of slavery in the United States. “On June 19, 149 years ago, enslaved individuals in Galveston, Texas learned that, by law, they could no longer be sold or forced to work, as the property of slave owners. This day was a profound moment in American history. “I am so proud that Milwaukee residents celebrated Juneteenth for the 43rd year. All across my home state, Wisconsinites have recognized this day as the official ‘Day of Jubilee.’ In Washington, DC and throughout America, we reflect on the incredible progress we have made in our fight towards justice and equality, while understanding that we cannot accept the status quo. Our journey is not over. “On Juneteenth and beyond, I urge everyone to be emboldened in our struggle to recognize all people as full and equal citizens.” To learn more about Juneteenth and the significance of this important holiday, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.19.2014	I look forward to her continued service and emboldening our fight against hatred, injustice and intolerance. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Commission on International Religious Freedom Appointment Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi recommended Ms. Hannah Rosenthal of Milwaukee, Wisconsin to the Commission on International Religious Freedom: “I am so proud to announce the appointment of Ms. Hannah Rosenthal to the Commission on International Religious Freedom. As the former U.S. State Department Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and the current CEO and President of the Milwaukee Jewish Federation, she has dedicated so much of her time to combatting hatred and bigotry. I have long supported her tremendous work and the vital role she has played in our international community. I look forward to her continued service and emboldening our fight against hatred, injustice and intolerance.” To learn more about the Commission on International Religious Freedom, please visit their website at www.uscirf.gov. ###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi recommended Ms. Hannah Rosenthal of Milwaukee, Wisconsin to the Commission on International Religious Freedom: “I am so proud to announce the appointment of Ms. Hannah Rosenthal to the Commission on International Religious Freedom. As the former U.S. State Department Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and the current CEO and President of the Milwaukee Jewish Federation, she has dedicated so much of her time to combatting hatred and bigotry. I have long supported her tremendous work and the vital role she has played in our international community. I look forward to her continued service and emboldening our fight against hatred, injustice and intolerance.” To learn more about the Commission on International Religious Freedom, please visit their website at www.uscirf.gov. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.16.2014	To date, same-sex couples across Wisconsin have received marriage licenses, and officials in counties throughout the state continue to issue licenses to eligible couples. These loving couples have valid marriage licenses and should receive the same federal recognition that all other married Wisconsin couples currently do. share: f t Contact: Leah Hunter (Baldwin) 202-224-5653Peter Knudsen (Kind) 202-225-5506Staci Cox (Moore) 202-225-4572Alex Nguyen (Pocan) 202-226-6724 Washington D.C. – U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congressman Ron Kind (WI-3), Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-2) have sent a letter to United States Attorney General Eric Holder asking that the same-sex couples in Wisconsin who have received marriage licenses be recognized for federal purposes. They write, “To date, same-sex couples across Wisconsin have received marriage licenses, and officials in counties throughout the state continue to issue licenses to eligible couples. These loving couples have valid marriage licenses and should receive the same federal recognition that all other married Wisconsin couples currently do.” Following last summer’s U.S. Supreme Court decision in United States v. Windsor, the Department of Justice has led the federal government’s effort to ensure that all lawfully-married same-sex couples have equal access to federal rights and benefits. As a result, couples who had legally married are able to access benefits including federal taxes, immigration, federal employee and service member benefits, and family and medical leave. The letter continues, “Now that Judge Crabb’s decision has allowed many of them to obtain marriage licenses, the federal government should provide Wisconsin’s married same-sex couples with all of these federal benefits now available to them under the law.” The full text of the letter can be found here and below. The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr.The Attorney GeneralU.S. Department of JusticeWashington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: We write to ask you to formally recognize for all federal purposes the marriages between same-sex couples that have been performed in the State of Wisconsin since a federal district judge invalidated the state’s constitutional amendment barring same-sex marriage on June 6. To date, same-sex couples across Wisconsin have received marriage licenses, and officials in counties throughout the state continue to issue licenses to eligible couples. These loving couples have valid marriage licenses and should receive the same federal recognition that all other married Wisconsin couples currently do. On June 6, U.S. District Court Judge Barbara Crabb ruled that Wisconsin’s constitutional and statutory restrictions on marriage for same-sex couples violate the Fourteenth Amendment’s Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses. She did not immediately stay her decision and, within hours, some county clerks opened their doors to same-sex couples seeking to marry. On Friday, Judge Crabb issued a stay of her decision while the state pursues an appeal, thereby suspending further marriages in the interim. Following last summer’s U.S. Supreme Court decision in United States v. Windsor, you have led the federal government’s effort to ensure that all lawfully-married same-sex couples have equal access to federal rights and benefits. As a result, couples who had legally married are finally treated equally and are able to access: • the ability to sponsor a foreign spouse for legal residency in the United States; • health, workers compensation, retirement and other benefits for the spouse of a federal employee;• health benefits, spousal ID cards, housing allowances and on-base support services for the spouse of a service member; • joint federal income tax filings, as well as spousal exemptions from federal taxation of gifts, inheritances and the value of employer-provided spousal health coverage; • unpaid family and medical leave to care for an ill spouse;• and hundreds of other rights and benefits. However, until last week, same-sex couples in Wisconsin were unable to receive these benefits because they could not lawfully marry. Now that Judge Crabb’s decision has allowed many of them to obtain marriage licenses, the federal government should provide Wisconsin’s married same-sex couples with all of these federal benefits now available to them under the law. Earlier this year, you made clear that couples who married in Utah and Michigan after federal judges struck down those states’ bans are entitled to full federal recognition. We are grateful for this tremendous leadership on behalf of fairness and equality. We ask that you similarly declare that those same-sex couples who married in Wisconsin since the June 6 decision are equally entitled to the federal benefits they deserve. Sincerely, Tammy Baldwin U.S. Senator Ron KindMember of Congress Gwen Moore Member of Congress Mark Pocan Member of Congress ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.06.2014	Today I join my lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) friends in Wisconsin and across the nation as we celebrate a profound victory towards giving the LGBT community the fairness they have long deserved. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in response to a federal judge ruling that Wisconsin’s same-sex marriage ban is unconstitutional. “Today I join my lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) friends in Wisconsin and across the nation as we celebrate a profound victory towards giving the LGBT community the fairness they have long deserved. No one should be barred from marriage due to sexual orientation or gender identity. This is a great day in Wisconsin history, as we have officially declared that love is love. “While we celebrate, we must remember that today is but one step in our journey towards ensuring all people are treated fairly under the law and are afforded equal rights and opportunities. I urge everyone to use this moment as a launching pad to reinvigorate our fight for justice and equality.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.28.2014	Today my colleagues and I sent a strong message that people accessing our courthouses should be safe from profiling, fear, and intimidation. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson urging him to address the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) practice of targeting immigrants at courthouses. The letter was signed by 59 Members of Congress, including Congresswoman Moore. “Today my colleagues and I sent a strong message that people accessing our courthouses should be safe from profiling, fear, and intimidation,” said Rep. Moore. “By targeting courthouses, ICE is exacerbating the culture of fear in our immigrant communities and undermining public safety. Like schools, hospitals, and places of worship, courthouses should be protected from immigration profiling tactics. I am proud that my colleagues stood with me to promote open access to our court system.” Congresswoman Moore worked closely with Milwaukee’s Voces De La Frontera and the American Civil Liberties Union to gain a full understanding of the immigration enforcement activities occurring at courthouses and the seriousness of the situation. "This practice is a national disgrace,” said Christine Neumann-Ortiz, executive director of Voces de la Frontera. “ICE’s outrageous recent decision to not just continue but actually institutionalize raids in courthouses, should be condemned far and wide. We commend Congresswoman Moore for leading on this, and thank all of the House members who signed the letter." "America’s courthouses must be open, accessible, and safe for all people, regardless of their immigration status,” said Joanne Lin, a legislative counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union. “The constitutional promise of equal justice under the law cannot be fulfilled if a segment of our populace fears that accessing court services and seeking legal redress will result in their detention and deportation." To read the full letter sent to U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, please click here. To read selected excerpts from the letter text, please see below. May 28, 2014 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to express our serious concerns regarding certain immigration enforcement activities that have taken place at or near courthouses nationwide. It has recently come to our attention that Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) personnel have interrogated, detained, and even processed for removal persons who have appeared in court to access court services. Examples include persons seeking to pay traffic citations, appear for a hearing, meet with an interpreter, get married, or obtain a domestic violence restraining order. Some cases involve pastors and family members accompanying people to court to help translate or provide emotional support; many of the people apprehended are the parents of U.S. citizen children. Although the agency reportedly issued operational guidance to the field in recent months it is apparent that these practices were not addressed and we believe this matter warrants your immediate attention. As you are aware, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has historically respected and refrained from enforcement activities at or near “sensitive locations,” except in limited exigent circumstances. Former ICE Director John Morton reaffirmed these principles in an October 24, 2011, memorandum entitled “Enforcement Actions at or Focused on Sensitive Locations.” The memorandum contains a list of sensitive locations covered by the guidance, including schools, hospitals, institutions of worship, sites of religious ceremonies, and public demonstrations. Although the list is intended to be non-exhaustive, ICE has reportedly decided not to extend to courthouses the same protections provided to those locations explicitly identified in the memo. We believe this is a critical error that must be remedied. There is no question that courthouses play a special role in our society. The First Amendment to the Constitution protects the rights of all people—citizen and non-citizen alike—to petition the government for redress of grievances and the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution similarly protects the rights of all persons to due process of law. Engraved above the Supreme Court of the United States is the inscription “Equal Justice Under Law” and directly above one entrance to the United States Department of Justice building it reads: “The place of justice is a hallowed place.” Using courthouses to carry out routine immigration enforcement actions deters members of our communities from exercising their constitutional rights, satisfying their civic duties, and conducting other important business. ... We ask that DHS issue new department-wide guidance that ensures that courts—like schools, hospitals, places of worship—are safe places that can be accessed by all people. No one should be afraid of going to court to seek essential services and protection from the court. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.26.2014	Today, tomorrow and always, we must support our military families, honor our fallen soldiers and fight for the veterans who bravely fought for us. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing Memorial Day: “Each Memorial Day, we honor the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guardsmen who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our freedoms. “Next week, we will mark the 70th anniversary of the Allied assault at Normandy (D-Day). U.S. forces suffered over 6,000 casualties on that first day. More recently, the wars in both Iraq and Afghanistan have seen at least 124 Wisconsinites who fought and died for our democracy and way of life. Hundreds more were wounded. Many more continue to serve each and every day in hostile environments around the globe. Our brave men and women in uniform deserve our unwavering respect and support on the battlefield and when they return home. “There are over 34,000 veterans in my district and over 21 million across the nation. These men and women in uniform served us with courage. It is past time we honor their sacrifice and give them the health care they need and deserve. The recent reports alleging misconduct within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) are deeply troubling and tragic. We cannot and must not fail our veterans. The Obama administration has taken steps to ensure full accountability in the Department of Veterans Affairs, including ordering an investigation and auditing of all VA medical facilities. In addition, I voted last week to make it easier to hold those responsible accountable. “It is also important that our service members are able to secure employment once they return home. Our veterans fought for our freedoms with valor. They should not have to struggle in the workplace. We must ensure that our veterans have the resources, training and opportunities they need to lead successful civilian lives. I urge Congress to work together to increase economic opportunities for our veterans. “This Memorial Day, let us also lift up the families of our fallen soldiers. Our thoughts and prayers remain with them. Let us continue to pay tribute to the memory of loved ones lost in battle. “Today, tomorrow and always, we must support our military families, honor our fallen soldiers and fight for the veterans who bravely fought for us.” Congresswoman Moore will participate in Milwaukee's annual Memorial Day parade on Monday, May 26 beginning at 2pmCT from N. 4th St. and W. Wisconsin Ave. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.23.2014	I'm proud to celebrate the contributions that Jewish Americans have made to improve Wisconsin, our country and the world. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Jewish American Heritage Month: “During Jewish American Heritage Month, we join together to celebrate the rich history and heritage of the Jewish people. We also recognize the indelible impact this community has had on our nation. “I’m proud to celebrate the contributions that Jewish Americans have made to improve Wisconsin, our country and the world. This month we remember Golda Meir, the fourth prime minister of Israel and a former Milwaukee resident. Both her determination to find peace and courage to continue her search in the midst of opposition should be revered. Milwaukee also boasts of Hannah Rosenthal, the former U.S. State Department Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism and the current CEO and President of the Milwaukee Jewish Federation. I am grateful for the work she has done and continues to do to fight anti-Semitism and all hate and bigotry. “These women join many other Jewish Americans who have taken their place in American history. This month and beyond, I challenge everyone to learn more about that history as we fight for peace and mutual respect around the globe and within our communities.” Jewish American Heritage Month has been officially recognized since 2006 and is celebrated each year during the month of May. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.22.2014	I am so proud that the third largest Hmong population in the nation calls Wisconsin home. Each day, Wisconsinites and those across our country benefit from the many contributions the Hmong community and larger AAPI community have made to enrich our way of life. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. “I join the nation to celebrate the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community and their rich history and culture. “I am so proud that the third largest Hmong population in the nation calls Wisconsin home. Each day, Wisconsinites and those across our country benefit from the many contributions the Hmong community and larger AAPI community have made to enrich our way of life. Yet, the fabric of our American identity is incomplete without recognizing both the successes and sacrifices of the AAPI community. Let us honor the courage and resolve of the AAPI people. “Yesterday I joined Representative Ed Perlmutter (CO-7), and a group of my House colleagues, to introduce a resolution urging President Obama to designate July 22 as ‘National Lao-Hmong Recognition Day.’ I am proud to support this resolution. “May also marks the 20th anniversary of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus in Congress. I am honored to partner with them on so many initiatives that promote equality and increase our economic competitiveness. This month and always, let us celebrate the Hmong people and all Asian American and Pacific Islanders.” Asian Pacific American Heritage Month was officially recognized in 1992 and is celebrated each year during the month of May. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.17.2014	Today, not only functions as a reflection on the landmark Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision, but let it also serve as a call to action. Let us come together to improve our nation by increasing educational opportunities for our kids. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating the 60th anniversary of the Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision: “Sixty years ago, the Supreme Court helped ignite the ongoing struggle for civil rights as it rejected the notion that our education system is and should be ‘separate but equal.’ Though we have come a long way since then, our journey is far from over. Extreme disparities still exist in access to quality education, and many of our students continue to learn in segregated classrooms. “I was sickened to learn that Wisconsin was recently rated the worst state for black children, according to the study ‘Race for Results: Building a Path to Opportunity for All Children.’ Among other indicators, the study found that white fourth grade students were nearly four times more likely than black fourth grade students to have reading proficiency. When examining the disparity for math, the numbers are even more staggering. Among eighth graders, white children were nearly six times more likely than black children to be proficient in math. “When our students fall behind, our nation suffers. If we are to survive, we must provide equal access to quality education for all of our students, adequate funding for our public schools and necessary resources for our children so they are better equipped to learn. “Today, not only functions as a reflection on the landmark Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court decision, but let it also serve as a call to action. Let us come together to improve our nation by increasing educational opportunities for our kids.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.05.2014	This Cinco de Mayo, let us truly embrace the rich heritage of the Mexican people and of all Hispanics across our nation by passing comprehensive immigration reform. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Cinco de Mayo: “Today we join together to celebrate the bravery of a Mexican militia and their resolve to defend their country and way of life. As we honor this courageous victory, may we also recognize the diverse experiences and contributions of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans. “This Cinco de Mayo, let us truly embrace the rich heritage of the Mexican people and of all Hispanics across our nation by passing comprehensive immigration reform. It is past time we honor our history, as a nation of immigrants, by enacting legislation that improves our economy and offers a fair and earned pathway to citizenship. My constituents, Wisconsinites and people all across America agree that we must act. “I urge my colleagues to give millions of aspiring Americans a vote on comprehensive immigration reform. Let us build upon the bravery of the past and act in the best interest of our families and friends. “Viva Cinco de Mayo, viva la comunidad Latina!” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.16.2014	While it is critical that underperforming regional offices are brought up to par, it is also important for the Department to be forward-thinking by building on the successes of those high performing offices that have been selected to broker in additional claims. share: f t Contact Cassie Smedile (Rep. Duffy)Staci Cox (Rep. Moore) Washington D.C. – U.S. Representatives Sean Duffy (WI-07) and Gwen Moore (WI-04) led a delegation-wide meeting with representatives from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to address the on-going claims backlog. Following that meeting, the Wisconsin Congressional delegation expressed their concern to VA Secretary, Erik Shinseki, over the impact a National Work Queue (NWQ) would have on Wisconsin Veterans and demanded more answers. Though the Milwaukee office of Veterans Affairs is widely regarded as a superb operation within the VA, Wisconsin veterans could experience longer wait times while the Milwaukee Regional Office is forced to take on claims from other underperforming offices across the country. The Members offered, “While it is critical that underperforming regional offices are brought up to par, it is also important for the Department to be forward-thinking by building on the successes of those high performing offices that have been selected to broker in additional claims.” The delegation requests a response within 30 days. The full letter may be read here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.10.2014	It's another disappointing day in Congress. My colleagues have, yet again, chosen to protect special interests in lieu of middle class working Americans and our vulnerable populations. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after House Republicans passed a budget for Fiscal Year 2015: “It’s another disappointing day in Congress. My colleagues have, yet again, chosen to protect special interests in lieu of middle class working Americans and our vulnerable populations. “Among many other groups, the Republican budget turns its back on Wisconsin students and seniors. Under this plan, over 9,000 students would go without Pell Grant funding. In addition, Wisconsin would lose over $12 billion in Federal Medicaid funding over the next decade. “There were clear winners and losers today. Unfortunately, the winners were large corporations and the wealthy. The losers included everyone else. As we slowly recover from the recession, we must work to implement policies that expand economic opportunity, not restrict its growth. We must also reach back to assist those hard working Americans who are struggling to pay their bills and feed their children. The Republican budget does the opposite. “I hope that as we continue to discuss American priorities, including a way to better reduce poverty in our nation, my Republican colleagues work with Democrats in a meaningful and constructive manner.” Please click here to read Rep. Moore’s previous statement on the Fiscal Year 2015 Republican budget. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.09.2014	Unlike the Republican budget, the CBC budget seeks to help working families and struggling Americans by reducing poverty and income inequality. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after House Republicans blocked the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) alternative budget: “Today my Republican colleagues voted against economic improvement and the well-being of millions of struggling Americans. “Unlike the Republican budget, the CBC budget seeks to help working families and struggling Americans by reducing poverty and income inequality. The CBC budget eliminates the sequester and reduces the national deficit in a responsible way. Our budget rejects the idea that our social safety net is a hammock and that tax breaks and tax loopholes for the wealthy take priority over protecting our vulnerable populations and bolstering key investments in our future. “Our budget includes a $500 billion comprehensive jobs program, substantial education funding through TRIO and Pell Grants, restored funding to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, extended emergency unemployment insurance and many other key investments. “I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to look past their political wants and see the needs of the American people.” Please click here to watch Rep. Moore lead the House floor debate on the Congressional Black Caucus alternative budget. Please click here to download the Fiscal Year 2015 Congressional Black Caucus alternative budget. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.08.2014	TRIO represents a sound investment in our entire nation. share: f t Contact:Ben Wakana (Shea-Porter), 202-295-7608Staci Cox (Moore), 202-225-4572Tiffany Haas (Payne), 202-225-3436 WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Gwen Moore (WI-4), and Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) led 142 bipartisan Members of Congress in urging the House Appropriations Committee to protect funding for TRIO, a nationwide network of programs that help students, veterans, and working adults access higher education, navigate their courses, and graduate. “TRIO represents a sound investment in our entire nation,” the members wrote. “We hope that you will continue to give TRIO programs a high priority in the FY 2015 appropriations cycle.” TRIO programs are designed to help low-income individuals, first-generation college students, veterans, and individuals with disabilities progress through the academic pipeline from middle school to college. Across the country, TRIO serves almost 760,000 students through programs such as Upward Bound, Talent Search, and Educational Opportunity Centers. Under sequestration, 31,000 low-income, first-generation students lost access to the academic tutoring, college and career counseling, and mentoring services provided by TRIO. The FY 2014 omnibus appropriations legislation restored most of the lost funding to TRIO. In July 2013, Shea-Porter, Moore, and 19 Representatives sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting that Federal TRIO Programs be protected from further cuts under sequestration in Fiscal Year 2014. Full text of Shea-Porter, Moore, and Payne’s letter, along with the full list of 142 signatures, can be viewed here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.07.2014	I am so pleased that the Senate has decided to extend a hand to struggling Americans. Now, it's our turn. share: f t WASHINGTON—Congressional Progressive Caucus Co-Chairs Reps. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Keith Ellison (D-MN), along with Progressive Caucus Members Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Reps. Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Andre Carson (D-IN), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Judy Chu (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Steve Cohen (D-TN), John Conyers (D-MI), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Sam Farr (D-CA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Mike Honda (D-CA), Steven Horsford (D-NV), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Barbara Lee (D-CA) Gwen Moore (D-WI), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) and Mark Takano (D-CA) applauded the passage of an extension of emergency unemployment insurance by the Senate and called on Speaker Boehner to put the bill on the floor of the House of Representatives as soon as possible. “Republicans seem to think everyone has exactly what they deserve and money is the measure of a person’s value,” Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) said. “If you don’t have enough for their tastes, you’re out of luck and they have no interest in helping you. If you have a lot, they’ll go out of their way to make sure you get more at our expense. This damage this attitude has done to the American people is out there if Republicans care to take a look. Unemployment insurance is a fair system that keeps Americans out of poverty. Renewing it helps everyone and hurts no one. The only thing in the way is conservative ideology, and until Republicans start living in the real world, more families will continue to struggle for lack of a few votes in Congress.” “22,279 Minnesotans have lost unemployment insurance since December and they can’t wait any longer,” Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) said. “I urge Speaker Boehner to put the Senate-passed extension of unemployment insurance on the floor to bring some relief to Minnesota families and 2.8 million people nationwide. Too many Americans have been out of work for too long. Renewing unemployment insurance is just the first step to get them back on their feet. We need to raise the minimum wage and put Americans back to work if we’re serious about helping the long-term unemployed.” “After a long struggle here in the Senate, we managed to get a few Republicans on board to help us pass this legislation. Now, it goes to the House. After pushing for tax breaks for billionaires and large corporations, it would be unconscionable for the Republican House not to pass this legislation,” Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) said. “If the House does not act, millions of jobless workers will be left out in the cold by the end of this year. That would be an outrage.” “"While the House of Representatives has failed to act for nearly 100 days, the Senate has passed legislation to renew unemployment insurance for more than 2.3 million American workers who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. What are the Republicans who control Congress waiting for?” Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA) said. "Too many American workers and their families are suffering the consequences of costly partisan obstruction and every additional week of inaction throws another 72,000 Americans into a state of economic insecurity. It’s time for the House to finally take action. Mr. Speaker, we demand a vote to restore unemployment insurance for more than 2 million of our fellow Americans who seek northing more than a chance to get back to work.” “The Republican inaction that allowed unemployment insurance to expire was shameful,” Rep. Andre Carson (D-IN) said. Supporting the unemployed should never have become a partisan issue. Unemployed Americans want to work and just need some support while they search for a job or retrain for a new career. It is time for Speaker Boehner to bring the Senate unemployment insurance extension to the floor so we can finally give struggling families the relief they need.” “These Americans lost their jobs—and now their last lifeline, unemployment insurance—through no fault of their own,” Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA) said. “They don’t deserve to lose their homes as well.” “As nearly 3 million job-seekers suffer without unemployment benefits, it is unacceptable that House Republicans continue their 3-month-long refusal to help their fellow Americans,” Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) said. “I am proud to be one of the 192 House Democrats who signed a discharge petition urging the majority to let us vote. And now that the Senate has passed a bipartisan extension, I join my colleagues in the Congressional Progressive Caucus in calling on Republicans to do the right thing and bring this bill to the floor immediately.” “Today’s bipartisan vote in the Senate to renew unemployment benefits should serve as a wakeup call to Speaker Boehner,” said Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI). “The Speaker is the only thing standing in the way of renewing this vital lifeline for 2.2 million Americans who are struggling to find work, and it is time for House Republicans to allow a vote so we can quickly pass this important legislation that will help middle class families and grow our economy.” “The millions of families whose unemployment benefits have expired expect Congress to act on this issue,” said Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY). “Yet the Republican leaders in the House of Representatives have refused to even allow a vote to extend unemployment benefits for the many families here in Brooklyn and around this nation who depend on these benefits to pay their rent and buy food. In every part of this nation, there are men and women who want to work but cannot find jobs. We have unemployment insurance to protect our families from the loss of income that results from the loss of a job.” “Speaker Boehner shouldn’t make millions of out-of-work Americans—including more than 31,000 Tennesseans—wait another day for the unemployment benefits they need to keep a roof over their heads and put food on their tables,” Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN) said. “He should stop obstructing the Senate’s bipartisan bill and immediately let the House vote to extend this critical lifeline to people who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own.” “I commend the Senate for coming together to renew an economic lifeline that millions of Americans have depended upon in the aftermath of the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression – unemployment insurance,” Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) said. “Extending jobless aid is not only a matter of fairness, it is a prudent step to boost the American economy. Economists estimate that renewing federal unemployment insurance would lead to an additional 200,000 jobs in 2014 by boosting consumption and increasing lagging consumer demand. I hope Speaker Boehner takes note of the Senate’s bipartisan work and allows a vote in the House, so we can do our part.” “While I’m encouraged by today’s progress in the Senate, I find it outrageous that we are still fighting this battle three months after more than 2 million hardworking Americans lost an essential benefit to help keep food on their table and a roof over their head,” Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) said. “Some of my Republican colleagues maintain that we cannot afford unemployment benefits for struggling Americans, yet they do not blink at approving billions of dollars in corporate subsidies. It’s high time Congress got its priorities straight.” “To ignore the plight of the millions of struggling Americans who have seen this vital lifeline cut off is unconscionable,” Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) said. “Congress’s top priority should be restoring opportunity and the promise of a better future for all Americans. We never should have forced people who are already struggling to get by into an even more desperate state. Speaker Boehner, I urge you: bring this bill to the floor for a vote immediately and help these families get back on their feet.” “The Speaker does not want to bring up this bill because it creates an election year headache for many members of his party,” said Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA). “That headache is nothing compared to the pain it is causing millions of families who are being denied access to unemployment benefits during these tough economic times. The Republican leadership should put the needs of the American people before the needs of their own caucus.” “The Senate has acted to restore unemployment benefits to millions of Americans across the country. Now, it’s time for the House to act,” Rep. Fattah (D-PA) said. “Unemployment insurance is a safety net for these individuals while they look for work, and failing to extend it is harming our economy and slowing job creation. I urge Speaker Boehner to bring this legislation to a vote immediately.” “Unemployment insurance is a crucial lifeline for millions of Americans who are struggling to find work,” Rep. Alan Grayson (D-FL) said. When Republicans blocked an extension of the program in December, more than 1.7 million Americans - including an estimated 73,000 Floridians - lost that lifeline. Now that the Senate has passed legislation extending unemployment insurance, it’s time for the House to act. Millions of Americans are waiting on Speaker Boehner to allow a vote on this program, and they cannot afford to wait any longer.” “Over 2 million Americans have lost their unemployment benefits because the Speaker of the House refuses to let us vote,” Rep. Mike Honda (D-CA) said. “Extending UI is good for our overall economy as well as the people who receive it. I have no doubts we have the votes to pass this critical measure; it’s time for Rep. Boehner to let us do our job.” “The more than 26,000 Nevadans who have been cut off from unemployment insurance cannot wait any longer,” Rep. Steven Horsford (D-NV) said. “We need Speaker Boehner to act and immediately bring up the Senate bill to extend unemployment insurance so that hard-working Americans can stay in their homes, feed their kids, and put gas in the car to look for work.” “Unemployment benefits are a life raft keeping job seekers—our neighbors and their families—afloat while they look for work,” Rep. Huffman (D-CA) said. “Our economic recovery is still not creating enough jobs, and it is unconscionable that Speaker Boehner is ignoring the millions of Americans desperately in need of our help.” “We have a lot of work to do to make sure that we are digging ourselves out of this tough economic hole that we have been in,” Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) said. But even as we work to jumpstart job growth in the private sector, even as we work to get businesses hiring again, we also have another responsibility: to offer unemployment assistance to the people who desperately need it -- to Americans who have been laid off in this recession. We have a responsibility to help them make ends meet and support their families even as they are looking for another job. I call on Speaker Boehner to bring up the Senate passed bill immediately following its passage.” “The Senate has taken a substantial step forward on behalf of over two million long-term unemployed Americans. It is now time for House Republicans to do the right thing for our country and bring the legislation to the floor for a vote. Any further delay in renewing unemployment compensation benefits will unnecessarily injure the ability of our economy to further recover,” said Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY). “Now is the time for action on unemployment insurance. The economic crisis suffered from the cut off of unemployment compensation has continued for 3 months, spread to more than 2 million Americans, including more than 80,000 in Georgia,” said Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA). “Despite repeated Democratic efforts, Republicans in Congress have shown nothing but spectacular indifference to the struggles of unemployed Americans—callously refusing to restore this vital economic lifeline that helps people support their families and pay their bills while they look for a new job.” “Speaker Boehner’s refusal to pass an unemployment insurance extension has left more than 2 million jobless Americans without the means to keep their families safe, fed, and warm,” Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) said. “It’s unconscionable that extremist Republicans continue to play politics with vital lifelines for folks who have fallen on hard times. I urge the Republican leadership to do the right thing and renew emergency unemployment insurance immediately.” “I am so pleased that the Senate has decided to extend a hand to struggling Americans,” said Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI). “Now, it’s our turn. I urge Speaker Boehner to allow a vote to extend vital unemployment insurance. Our families and friends cannot wait another day.” “Unfortunately, the Republican leadership of the House of Representatives has shamefully ended unemployment insurance for more than 2.3 million Americans, including nearly 200,000 New Yorkers, who are currently looking for work,” said Rep. Nadler (D-NY). “Extending unemployment insurance is the right thing to do for our hard working families and it is the right thing to do for our nation’s economy. It is unconscionable that Republicans continue to block its extension.” “We are shamefully past due for the renewal of unemployment insurance, a vital lifeline that was cut for millions of long-term unemployed Americans,” said Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC). “The Speaker should move swiftly to bring the Senate’s bipartisan deal to extend the program to the House floor. More than two million Americans – and counting – have been left out in the cold by the Republican block on an extension of the program, and they are not the only ones who will feel the pain. Nearly a quarter million other Americans, whose employment depends on the disposable income of the unemployed, stand to those their jobs. Let’s stop the losses to our people and to the economy” “Out of work Americans depended on those unemployment benefits to put food on the table and gas in their vehicles. When the benefits run out, not only do they suffer but so do their communities since unemployment checks go directly into the local economy and help small businesses that are still trying to recover from the recession,” said Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME). “The Senate did the right thing in passing this extension, now it’s time for Republicans to let the House vote.” “It is unacceptable Speaker Boehner has rejected this bipartisan agreement even before it was passed in the Senate,” said Rep. Mark Pocan (D-WI). “More than 40,000 Wisconsinites have lost these much needed benefits which help keep the heat on and food on the table. They cannot wait any longer. The House must now act and pass this bipartisan agreement.” “We should ask ourselves what kind of society we want to live in,” said Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY). “Right now there are many Americans who are unemployed through no fault of their own and are struggling to get by. It's wrong to turn our backs on people who need support until they can get back on their feet. We have an obligation to help those who are most vulnerable. Speaker Boehner, please do the right thing and allow a vote in the House.” “The Senate has taken extremely important action by passing an Unemployment Insurance extension. Now 2.8 million Americans are counting on Speaker Boehner to schedule a vote so we can send the bill the President Obama to sign,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). In my home state of Illinois 153,400 people have lost these benefits, and our struggling to survive. These are hardworking people, who have fallen on tough times and are looking for their next opportunity. In the meantime they need assistance to keep food on the table and to remain in their homes. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House to pass the Unemployment Insurance extension without any further delay.” “Speaker Boehner seems determined to deliver a body blow to more than 2 million Americans who are in need of help,” said Rep. Mark Takano (D-CA). He should stop posturing to the extreme elements of his party that want nothing more than to see this safety net taken away from the American people. Billions of dollars in economic activity has been drained out of our economy by failing to renew unemployment benefits. If Speaker Boehner really wants to grow jobs, renewing these benefits for the long-term unemployed is one of the ways he can start. Press Contacts:Adam Sarvana (Grijalva) – (202) 225-2435 Mike Casca (Ellison) – (202) 225-4755James Gleeson (Becerra) – (202) 225-6235Nathan Bennett (Carson) – (202) 225-4011Shane Seaver (Cartwright) – (202) 225-5546Dan Lindner (Chu) – (202) 225-5464Andrew Gernt (Cicilline) – (202) 225-4911Patrick Rheaume (Clarke) – (202) 225-6231Ben Garmisa (Cohen) – (202) 225-3265Andrew Schreiber (Conyers) – (202) 225-5126Kerry Arndt (DeFazio) – (202) 225-6416Sara Lonardo (DeLauro) – (202) 225-3661Adam Russell (Farr) – (202) 225-2861Ally Freeman (Fattah) – (202) 225-4001Lauren Doney (Grayson) – (202) 225-9889Ken Scudder (Honda) – (202) 226-9705Tim Hogan (Horsford) – (202) 225-9894Paul Arden (Huffman) – (202) 225-5187Mike McQuerry (Jackson Lee) – (202) 225-3816Stephanie Báez (Jeffries) – (202) 225-5936Richard Andrew Phelan (Johnson) – (202) 225-1605Carrie Adams (Lee) – (202) 225-2661Staci Cox (Moore) – (202) 225-4572Aaron Keyak (Nadler) - (202) 225-5635Daniel van Hoogstraten (Norton) – (202) 225-8050Willy Ritch (Pingree) – (202) 225-6116Alex Nguyen (Pocan) – (202) 225-2906Hannah Kim (Rangel) - (202) 225-4365Michael Briggs (Sanders) – (202) 228-6492Lee Whack (Schakowsky) – (202) 225-2111Brett Morrow (Takano) – (202) 225-2305 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.02.2014	As in the past, this budget strikes fear in the hearts of our vulnerable populations. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to Representative Paul Ryan’s (WI-1) fiscal year 2015 budget: “With another budget comes another year of misplaced priorities. This Republican budget, introduced on April Fools’ Day, is unfortunately not a joke. The budget makes harmful cuts to our domestic programs, while protecting the wealthiest Americans and big businesses. “As in the past, this budget strikes fear in the hearts of our vulnerable populations. For hours in today’s budget markup, I heard of the ‘need’ to cut, slash and burn our entitlement programs. If my colleagues on the other side of the aisle truly wish to reduce poverty, we must come together to strengthen our economy and improve our safety net. Sadly, the Ryan budget does neither. “The GOP budget would cost approximately 3 million jobs by fiscal year 2016. That number is nearly the entire workforce in my home state. While more hardworking Americans would lose their jobs, the wealthy would enjoy tax loopholes and an average millionaire tax cut of $200,000. “In addition, the Ryan budget would eliminate guaranteed Pell Grant funding, turn Medicare into a voucher-like program for future seniors and drastically reduce food assistance. We need practical and tangible solutions to reducing poverty. One such tactic is to expand the Earned Income Tax Credit. Unfortunately, this bipartisan idea was rejected by my Republican colleagues. “Those living in poverty need resources, not further isolation and rejection. I urge my Republican colleagues to join Democrats in working to reduce poverty, not amplify it.” Please click here to watch Rep. Moore speak, during the FY2015 budget markup, on the need to reduce poverty. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.23.2014	Many times, our ability to achieve our goals begins with our health. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement celebrating Women’s History Month and the fourth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. “Beginning with my mother, there are many women who have had an indelible impact on my life. I am grateful to them and to the countless women who have shaped our nation. While we recognize the great contributions women have made to improve our nation and our lives, let us also honor them by ensuring that women have the tools necessary to succeed. “Important issues such as equal access to job and educational opportunities and equal pay in the workforce cannot be discarded. However, many times, our ability to achieve our goals begins with our health. “As a woman, I am incredibly pleased to recognize the fourth anniversary of our landmark health care reform law. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, being a woman is no longer a pre-existing condition that allows insurance companies to charge women more for their health care. Women can no longer lose their coverage when they fall ill or become pregnant. In addition, over 790,000 women in Wisconsin no longer have to worry that they will reach their lifetime limit on health care coverage. Among many other benefits, millions of women now have access to preventive health services at no cost. “I was proud to support the Affordable Care Act four years ago, and I’m proud to support it today. This Women’s History Month, let us build on the success of the Affordable Care Act and work to ensure that women are treated as full citizens in every aspect of life.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.07.2014	This International Women's Day, I urge my colleagues to pass legislation that keeps families together, boosts our economy and improves the well-being of aspiring Americans. share: f t Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard, Chair CONTACT: Matt Lee (Roybal-Allard)(202) 225-1766Staci Cox (Moore) (202) 225-4572 Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform Celebrates International Women’s Day; Launches “Women’s Fast for Families” Washington, DC – Saturday, the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform will celebrate International Women’s Day and look forward to a month of activities across the country aimed at highlighting the impact of our broken immigration system on women and the urgent need for reform. These events will culminate on April 7th with the final “Women’s Fast for Families” on the National Mall in Washington DC. Designated by the United Nations, International Women’s Day is an occasion to recognize the struggles and achievements of women around the world. This year’s global theme is “Inspiring Change” and over the next month, women across America, including women leaders in Congress, will be holding fasts and other events to inspire the American people to demand sweeping changes to our nation’s unjust immigration laws. Because this broken system continues to deny millions of immigrant women the chance to pursue the American Dream, the Women’s Working Group once again calls on the House Leadership to bring responsible reform legislation to the House floor for a vote. “We should recognize that when the unique needs and contributions of immigrant women are demeaned and ignored, the progress of all women is endangered,” said Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard. “That’s why immigration reform is a women’s equality issue and why on International Women’s Day, the Congressional Women Working Group is ramping up the push to finally fix our broken immigration system. Along with women across the country, we’re united in fighting for truly comprehensive immigration reform that protects and empowers immigrant women.” "It has been repeated, many times this Congress, that when women succeed, America succeeds. This notion does not exclude immigrant women. Study after study confirm the enormous economic benefits of comprehensive immigration reform. This International Women’s Day, I urge my colleagues to pass legislation that keeps families together, boosts our economy and improves the well-being of aspiring Americans," said Congresswoman Gwen Moore. "For immigrant women living in our country, International Women's Day represents another reminder of how far our nation still has to go to provide them a fair and inclusive pathway to citizenship," said Congresswoman Linda Sánchez. "These women work hard to clothe, feed and provide for their families, yet our immigration system does not do them justice. We need to continue fighting to give them the opportunity to succeed in our great nation. Because we all know that when women succeed, our country succeeds." “Our current immigration system is hurting women, families, and communities. As we recognize International Women’s Day, we must consider the importance of immigrant women and the great need for thoughtful, comprehensive immigration reform. In Southern Nevada, many immigrant women work behind the scenes in the gaming and tourism industries and in the informal economy. Their unique contributions keep our families strong, help build vital communities, and fill a critical and growing need in our economy. They deserve comprehensive immigration reform now,” said Congresswoman Dina Titus. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.04.2014	I join President Obama in his commitment to expanding opportunity to all Americans. I urge Rep. Ryan to join the president, and my Democratic colleagues, as we work to loosen poverty's grasp. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in response to Representative Paul Ryan’s (WI-1) report on poverty and President Obama’s fiscal year 2015 budget request: “I am pleased to see that my Wisconsin colleague, Rep. Paul Ryan, has decided to continue the conversation on how to reduce poverty in our nation. However, his poverty report seeks to undermine our anti-poverty programs instead of actually reducing poverty. Our social safety net programs are not perfect, but the positive effects they have had on millions of struggling Americans cannot be discounted. “In contrast to Rep. Ryan’s report, President Obama released his budget request for fiscal year 2015 that works to reduce poverty by closing the opportunity gap and investing in our future success. His budget expands the Earned Income Tax Credit for working people and closes tax loopholes for some of the wealthiest Americans. In addition, his budget invests in early childhood education and job training programs. “I join President Obama in his commitment to expanding opportunity to all Americans. I urge Rep. Ryan to join the president, and my Democratic colleagues, as we work to loosen poverty’s grasp.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.27.2014	I am very disappointed that my Republican colleagues chose to overpower the voice of Main Street with the voice of Wall Street. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed H.R. 3193, the so-called Consumer Financial Protection and Soundness Improvement Act. “Despite the euphemistic name, this Republican legislation is really about the ability of Wall Street to oversee the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB),” said Rep. Moore. “The bill aims to paralyze and eventually defund the agency.” The mission of the CFPB is to protect American consumers and inspire trust in our markets. The CFPB educates consumers, supervises various financial entities and analyzes financial markets to better protect consumers. “H.R. 3193 seeks to eliminate ‘consumer’ from the CFPB’s name and, quite possibly, their mission as well. Under the GOP bill, the newly established ‘Financial Product Safety Commission’ would be a shadow of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In our post-recession economy, families continue to struggle to make ends meet. Americans need jobs, not legislation putting their financial security back in the hands of Wall Street scammers. The CFPB has already refunded $3 billion to 9.7 million victims of unfair, deceptive and abusive practices in financial markets. H.R. 3193 would make it more difficult to assist these victims. “Today I introduced a straight forward amendment to acknowledge the tremendous work done by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Unfortunately, not all of my colleagues agreed on the importance of protecting consumers. They chose, instead, to protect Wall Street interests. “When it comes to safeguarding the livelihood of our constituents, large financial institutions should not have a vote. I am very disappointed that my Republican colleagues chose to overpower the voice of Main Street with the voice of Wall Street.” Please click here to watch as I defend consumers on the House floor. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.19.2014	From the transcendent writing of Zora Neale Hurston, to the illuminating invention of Lewis Latimer, to local Wisconsin leaders like Vel Phillips and Reuben K. Harpole, Jr., African Americans have worked to improve the Milwaukee community and the nation at large. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month. “Every year, during the month of February, the nation comes together to celebrate the culture, accomplishments and history of African Americans. As we recognize the diversity of our great nation, taking a month to specifically celebrate the contributions of African Americans helps foster greater tolerance and understanding – because Black History is American History. It is important to remember and honor the work of those, of the past and present, who have supported our community. From the transcendent writing of Zora Neale Hurston, to the illuminating invention of Lewis Latimer, to local Wisconsin leaders like Vel Phillips and Reuben K. Harpole, Jr., African Americans have worked to improve the Milwaukee community and the nation at large. “As we celebrate Black History Month, we must also celebrate the lives of those whose stories may not be prominently featured in our history books – figures like Percy Julian, a scientific pioneer, and Mary Church Terrell, a prominent educator and civil rights activist. To only remember the significant work of Rosa Parks and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., would be an incomplete recollection of American history. “Throughout the month of February and beyond, I encourage all people, in my district and across this country, to learn about the many and varied contributions of African Americans.” To view Rep. Moore’s Black History Month video message, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.11.2014	Today the House decided to choose a new direction. I urge more of my colleagues across the aisle to join Democrats in moving our nation forward. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in support of a clean debt ceiling increase to avoid default on our financial obligations. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 221-201. “Carried by Democratic votes, I am so pleased that a majority of my colleagues voted to maintain the full faith and credit of the United States and support American consumers and businesses. In doing so, disabled veterans’ pensions as well as the tax refunds, retirement savings, Social Security checks, mortgages, Medicare physician payments and student loans of millions are no longer subject to the damage a default would cause. This vote was contentious partially due to right-wing rhetoric that raising the debt ceiling would increase our national deficit. In reality, raising the debt ceiling allows the Department of the Treasury to pay the bills Congress has already approved. I am thankful that common sense has prevailed this evening. “For too long, House Republicans have caused uncertainty and obstructionism as we operated from one manufactured crisis to the next. Today the House decided to choose a new direction. I urge more of my colleagues across the aisle to join Democrats in moving our nation forward.” To view a report on the impacts of a default for Wisconsin, please click here. Report courtesy of the Ways and Means Committee Democrats. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.06.2014	The bottom line is that the Export-Import Bank supports American jobs. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the face of a Republican agenda that seeks to erode consumer protection and undermine Wall Street reform, Democratic members of the Financial Services Committee have called for a renewed focus on a legislative goal that is proven to preserve and create U.S. jobs by helping American businesses compete internationally for opportunities to export goods and services. In a letter to Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) and Subcommittee Chair John Campbell (R-CA), 26 Democratic members of the Committee have called for a hearing to examine the issues surrounding the reauthorization of the U.S. Export-Import Bank, a financially self-sustaining agency that has helped maintain or create 1.2 million U.S. jobs over the past five years. Led by Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Denny Heck (D-WA) and Maxine Waters (D-CA), the letter touts the Bank’s importance in leveling the playing field for U.S. businesses that compete in the global economy. It also underscores the Export-Import Bank’s profitability, sustaining itself while returning billions to the Treasury. Rep. Waters is the top Democrat on the Committee and Rep. Clay is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade. “The bottom line is that the Export-Import Bank supports American jobs. I urge my Republican colleagues to act swiftly to reauthorize this proven jobs engine,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “The reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank is vital to growing our economy, generating good jobs for American workers, and expanding business opportunities for our best companies,” said Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay. “I urge the Chairman to schedule a hearing on its reauthorization at the earliest possible opportunity.” Unless Congress acts, the charter of the Export-Import Bank will expire on September 30, 2014. “Reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank will reduce the deficit and create good-paying jobs right here in America,” Rep. Denny Heck said. “Last year the Ex-Im Bank helped American businesses in all 50 states sell American-made products to overseas buyers. It is urgent that Congress reaches a bipartisan reauthorization agreement so U.S. companies can continue competing in the global marketplace.” The lawmakers also point out that failing to reauthorize the Bank’s charter will hurt the competitiveness of U.S. businesses in the global marketplace in favor of foreign firms. Rep. Waters said, “The Export-Import Bank sustains hundreds of thousands of jobs and levels the playing field so that American businesses, large and small, can compete successfully in global markets. Its reauthorization should be quick and without controversy.” The letter was delivered to Chairman Hensarling today. Full text of the letter is below. A signed copy can be viewed here. February 6, 2014The Honorable Jeb HensarlingChairmanHouse Financial Services Committee The Honorable John CampbellChairmanHouse Financial Services Subcommittee on Monetary Policy and Trade Re: Hearing Request to Reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States Dear Chairmen Hensarling and Campbell: As you plan the Committee’s agenda for the second session of the 113th Congress, we write to respectfully request that the Committee direct immediate attention to the important business of reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank of the United States. Specifically, we request that you schedule a hearing to begin examining the issues surrounding the reauthorization of the Bank. As you know, the current Export-Import Bank charter will expire September 30, 2014. The Export-Import Bank supports and creates jobs for American workers by leveling the playing field for U.S.-based firms that compete in global markets for foreign business and customers. The Export-Import Bank supports U.S. exports and jobs while also returning billions of dollars in profits to the Treasury. As you may recall, the Committee adopted, without objection, an amendment to its Oversight Plan in February 2013 recognizing that the Export-Import Bank is a self-sustaining agency mandated to contribute to the employment of U.S. workers through financing U.S.-manufactured goods and services. The failure to reauthorize the Bank’s charter in a timely manner would jeopardize the ability of U.S. firms to compete with their global competitors and would tip the playing field in favor of foreign firms. Over the past five years, the Bank has helped sustain or create 1.2 million jobs in the United States. With millions of American’s still unemployed, the role of the Export-Import Bank has become even more critical to the ability of United States businesses to increase United States exports. We urge the Committee to begin taking the steps necessary to ensure a timely Export-Import Bank reauthorization. U.S. businesses that rely on the various export credit services that the Bank provides need certainty in the reauthorization process for long-term business planning purposes. We believe that committee action on reauthorization serves the best interest of the United States and the workers whose jobs the Export-Import Bank supports in all of our districts. We believe Congress can reach a bipartisan reauthorization agreement, as we have consistently done in the past that meets the overall objective of supporting U.S. exports and jobs. We are eager to begin this process and are prepared to assist however we can in this important work. We look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience. Sincerely,Maxine Waters Wm. Lacy ClayGwen MooreDenny HeckPatrick MurphyGregory MeeksGary PetersCarolyn McCarthyMichael CapuanoJohn DelaneyKyrsten SinemaJohn CarneyEd G. PerlmutterKeith EllisonJoyce BeattyTerri Sewell Bill Foster Al Green Brad ShermanCarolyn MaloneyJames HimesRubén HinojosaDaniel KildeeDavid ScottEmanuel Cleaver Stephen Lynch ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.05.2014	I hope those in Milwaukee, and our brothers and sisters across America, will join me to build awareness around this scourge inflicting our communities. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Tomorrow Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will join the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and faith leaders for the CBC Day of Prayer on Capitol Hill. Milwaukee Inner-City Congregations Allied for Hope (MICAH) will host a corresponding Day of Prayer in Milwaukee. “Each day, poverty and income inequality threaten to further divide this nation into the ‘haves’ and the ‘have-nots,’” said Rep. Moore. “Approximately four in ten Milwaukee children live in poverty. What’s more, the poverty disparity between the city of Milwaukee and its suburbs is one of the highest in the nation. I hope those in Milwaukee, and our brothers and sisters across America, will join me to build awareness around this scourge inflicting our communities.” Please contact the MICAH office at 414-264-0805 with any questions. This event is free and open to the public. For more information, please click here. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore MICAH WHAT: National Day of Prayer to End Poverty and Income Inequality WHEN: Thursday, February 6, 2014 at 1pmCT WHERE: Bethesda Baptist Church2909 N. 20th StreetMilwaukee, WI 53206 WHY: Since 1953, leaders from all religions backgrounds, sectors of society, and communities around the world have gathered in Washington, DC for the National Prayer Breakfast to unite in faith and to build new relationships that will benefit goodwill for all. This year, when faith leaders gather to pray in Washington, MICAH will host the first National Day of Prayer to End Poverty and Income Inequality in Milwaukee. Event attendees will join those around the nation to pray for the consciousness of America to be awakened and united in support of those in need. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.04.2014	By building on the values that we cherish as Americans, it is my hope that we can come together and help those women and children who are hidden in the shadows. share: f t Contact: Elizabeth Murphy (Roybal-Allard) 202-225-1766Or Staci Cox (Moore) 202-225-4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform, met on Capitol Hill with Cecilia Munoz, Director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, to discuss the profound impact of our broken immigration system on immigrant women. They explored how women leaders in Congress and the Obama Administration can work together in 2014 to pass immigration reform legislation that protects and empowers immigrant women. Munoz and the Working Group’s members pledged to make the unique needs of women a priority as debate on this important issue ramps up in the House of Representatives following the release of the House GOP leadership’s Immigration Principles. “We had a passionate discussion today that once again demonstrates the commitment of women leaders in Congress and the Administration to fight for responsible immigration reform that will lift women out of the shadows and enable them to pursue the American Dream,” said Congresswoman Roybal-Allard, Chair of the Working Group. “Our broken immigration system traps women in violent relationships, separates mothers from their children, and prevents hard-working women from making the most of their talents and skills. I look forward to working with President Obama and Cecilia Muñoz to pass immigration reform legislation that respects women’s rights and reflects their unique interests.” “Today I was pleased to engage in a productive conversation with Cecilia Muñoz, from the White House, and my colleagues on the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Working Group on Immigration Reform. Women are vital to the fabric of our society, and it is imperative that we address our broken immigration system by adopting policies that speak to the particular needs of our immigrant sisters. By building on the values that we cherish as Americans, it is my hope that we can come together and help those women and children who are hidden in the shadows,” said Congresswoman Gwen Moore. “It is essential that comprehensive immigration reform take into account the special needs of women,” said Congresswoman Dina Titus. “This is important in Southern Nevada where so many immigrant women work in back-of-the-house jobs and in the informal economy, cleaning and caring for children.” “Nearly everyone agrees that our immigration system is badly broken and in dire need of fixing, and the bill that came out of the Senate is a step in the right direction. What we need is immigration legislation that establishes a path to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country. We must address the lengthy backlogs in our current immigration system – backlogs that have kept families apart sometimes for decades. We must grant a faster track to the ‘dreamers’ brought to this country as children through no fault of their own, and to agricultural workers who are an essential part of our communities and work so hard to provide our nation’s food supply,” said Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. “Our meeting today with Cecilia Muñoz was very productive. We discussed many vital issues surrounding our immigration debate, including the dismal deportation rate and urged the Administration to recalibrate their immigration policies in regards to people who pose a public safety risk. We must pursue comprehensive immigration reform, and this was a positive step in that process,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.29.2014	You cannot remove $9 billion from SNAP without increasing hunger in our communities. That's the bottom line. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed the Farm Bill that passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 251-166. She released this statement: “I oppose the Farm Bill legislation. Although I appreciate the work put forth by the farm bill conferees and recognize some provisions that support conservation, dairy farmers, and provide limited reforms to crop subsidy programs, I simply could not support a bill that would take badly needed food assistance from low-income Americans, including thousands in my state. “A number of states and the District of Columbia have chosen to take advantage of an option to improve coordination with the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). These states have simplified administration of both LIHEAP and SNAP to help ensure that low-income families are not forced to have to make the difficult, but often needed, choice between paying their utilities or feeding themselves and their families. As a result, these families are able to receive a more adequate SNAP benefit. The House-passed Farm Bill would essentially end this practice. “Wisconsin is one of the states that has wisely chosen to take advantage of this coordination program. As a result, tens of thousands of households would be adversely impacted throughout the state by this change. In addition, approximately 850,000 households across America will see a lower SNAP benefit. According to one estimate, these low-income households will lose an average of $90 per month in sorely needed food purchasing power. The average SNAP benefit already runs out long before the month does. This change will only create more hardship. For many Americans, including the elderly and people living with disabilities, the funds that they lose are not ‘nominal’ and are vital to helping them put sufficient food on the table. This cut is in addition to the benefit cuts that took place last November for every SNAP recipient. “You cannot remove $9 billion from SNAP without increasing hunger in our communities. That’s the bottom line. While I supported efforts by my colleagues that stopped some of the worst Republican-sanctioned SNAP provisions, I could not overlook the dire impact that the remaining change will have on already struggling low-income households in Wisconsin and across the nation.” To watch Rep. Moore’s floor speech in support of “Heat and Eat,” please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.28.2014	It is my hope that President Obama and Congress are able to work together to positively address our most pressing issues. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Tonight Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address to Congress. “Tonight President Obama delivered a thoughtful address, outlining our nation’s priorities for 2014. From education reform and college affordability to job training and retirement security, there were many noteworthy items in his speech under the overall theme of opportunity, action and optimism. “I am pleased that he used this moment, not simply as a messaging platform, but as a means to highlight how he intends to address some key legislative items this year. His speech focused on the notion of ‘opportunity for all.’ In other words, we must work to create opportunity for the middle class and those striving for the middle class. There is no doubt that our economy continues to grow; however, let us recognize that our work is far from over. The scourge of income inequality plagues our communities, and low-wage jobs threaten the financial security of families all across America. “Tonight President Obama decided to take the first step in working to ensure that hardworking Americans earn living wages. Those who are working on new federal contracts will now have more funds to provide for their basic needs. The second step is raising the federal minimum wage in its entirety by passing the Harkin-Miller bill. “While we support struggling Americans in the workforce, we must not forget the 1.6 million people and counting who have already lost vital unemployment benefits. In Wisconsin, approximately 1,608 people are losing their benefits each week in the first half of 2014. I join President Obama in calling on Congress to act. I also look forward to learning more about the President’s CEO initiative to hire the long-term unemployed. “It was clear, however, that the President does not seek to turn his back on Congress. Rather, he has decided to act when Congress has not. As Members, it is essential that we work with him to expand economic opportunity to all Americans. As we do so, we must work to ensure that Americans are not discriminated against in the workplace through pay discrepancies, sexual orientation or gender identity. “In America, success should not be guaranteed for a few and an unattainable idea for most. In the same vein, I am pleased that the President spoke on the importance of our manufacturing sector. Companies like Master Lock, in my district, help to support millions of jobs each year. In fact, the manufacturing sector employed over 12 million people this past December, according to preliminary data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. We must work to sustain and bolster this vital aspect of our economy. I look forward to President Obama’s Wisconsin visit to discuss the significance of manufacturing jobs. “From preserving the integrity of the Voting Rights Act, to passing comprehensive immigration reform, gun violence prevention legislation and more, we have many other items left on the legislative table. It is my hope that President Obama and Congress are able to work together to positively address our most pressing issues.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.28.2014	House Republicans oppose government •interfering' in our private lives except, of course, when it comes to women's health. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) joined her Democratic colleagues to oppose H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. She released this statement: “The 49th time is certainly not the charm. It may be a new year, but House Republicans are using the same tired tactics. The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act is yet another Republican sponsored messaging bill that is wholly deceptive. Except under narrow circumstances, no federal funds may currently be used to fund abortions. H.R. 7 is just another attempt to undermine both the Affordable Care Act and women's private health care decisions. “Among other tactics, this bill would restrict how private funds are spent in the private insurance market. This bill would also punish small business owners who provide comprehensive health coverage to their employees. In addition, H.R. 7 would permanently prevent abortion coverage for low-income women, military women, civil servants and DC residents. Overall, this radical legislation seeks to restrict access to comprehensive health care coverage. “House Republicans oppose government ‘interfering’ in our private lives except, of course, when it comes to women’s health. It’s time for my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to focus on ways to strengthen our economy and leave women’s private health decisions to women.” To watch Rep. Moore stand up for women’s health on the House floor, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.20.2014	I challenge us all to take peaceful action to thwart the crime inflicting our communities. In everything we do, let us recommit ourselves to realizing Dr. King's dream. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) joined the nation to celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. “I join my brothers, sisters and neighbors in honoring one of our greatest heroes and strongest advocates for peace and equality. Through nonviolence, Dr. King led the civil rights movement and inspired a nation. “Although his legacy lives on, our journey towards realizing his dream is not over. May we honor his life’s work by protecting our right to vote, extending unemployment benefits, maintaining our social safety net programs and reducing the lives lost from gun violence. Each day, let us continue to fight for equality and peace. “Dr. King was a man who fiercely opposed injustice, inequality and bloodshed. I was proud to honor him yesterday morning in a celebration themed, ‘Nonviolence: The Most Potent Weapon.’ I urged the attendees to recognize and honor his mission of peace by acting to end nonsensical violence. “I challenge us all to take peaceful action to thwart the crime inflicting our communities. In everything we do, let us recommit ourselves to realizing Dr. King’s dream." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.15.2014	Our government cannot continue to operate from one manufactured crisis to the next. Although the omnibus does not restore pre-sequester funding for every program, it offers significant relief to many of our domestic investments that were compromised when the across-the-board spending cuts went into effect. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) voted in support of the omnibus appropriations bill that provides $1.1 trillion in funding for the 2014 fiscal year. She released this statement: “Our government cannot continue to operate from one manufactured crisis to the next. Although the omnibus does not restore pre-sequester funding for every program, it offers significant relief to many of our domestic investments that were compromised when the across-the-board spending cuts went into effect. Sequestration caused approximately 57,000 would-be Head Start students to lose this vital educational support. Due to a 5.27 percent cut, Head Start programs throughout Wisconsin were forced to deny admittance to 822 children and reduce their service by 18,758 days at center-based facilities. I am very pleased that Head Start will have its funding restored, totaling nearly $1 billion over its current funding level. In addition, our federal TRIO programs will receive almost 95 percent of their pre-sequester level funding. I strongly support the funding in this bill reserved for some of our most vital education programs. “However, I am not satisfied with every aspect of this bill, such as reduced funding for the National Institutes of Health (when compared to the pre-sequester level) as well as some negative environmental and health care compromises. Despite these concerns, I supported the omnibus as it represents bipartisan compromise and helps us avoid the threat of a government shutdown for the remainder of the fiscal year. “The American people have had enough of Congressional dysfunction and gridlock. I join them in this sentiment. I urge my colleagues to continue this spirit by working together to extend emergency unemployment benefits, improve our economy and help families rise out of poverty.” The 2014 omnibus appropriations bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 359 to 67. The legislation is expected to pass the Senate. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.28.2013	After the New Year, I urge my colleagues to act in the best interests of our constituents and make this extension a priority. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, approximately 1.3 million Americans will lose their unemployment insurance. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released this statement: “This holiday season, Congressional Republicans have given Americans a ‘gift’ of uncertainty they did not ask for and did not deserve. Today approximately 23,700 Wisconsinites will lose their unemployment insurance benefits. In the first six months of 2014, these benefits will expire for approximately 41,800 more Wisconsinites. "Each day, struggling families across our nation wonder how they will feed their families and warm their homes. Unemployment insurance helps to reduce this anxiety and increase the well-being of many. In our slowly recovering economy, the decision to extend these benefits to assist our families, friends and neighbors should not be difficult. "After the New Year, I urge my colleagues to act in the best interests of our constituents and make this extension a priority. As lawmakers, we should give a hand to struggling American families, not remove their resources." To watch Rep. Moore support unemployment insurance on MSNBC, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.20.2013	What kind of message are we sending to our Native American neighbors, our students and school districts across the nation? I am extremely disappointed that Governor Walker has, once again, chosen to stand on the wrong side of history. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) spoke out after learning that Governor Walker has signed a bill making it easier for public schools to keep Native American nicknames, logos, mascots and team names. “Our governor continues to make headlines for his decisions negatively impacting Wisconsinites,” said Rep. Moore. “This time, he is not singling out students, seniors, people with disabilities, the middle class or the poor. Rather he is turning his back on our Native American communities. This law is offensive at its core.” In 2010, Wisconsin enacted a law that allowed the Department of Public Instruction to conduct a hearing on the offensive nature of a Native American public school nickname, logo, mascot or team name if one complaint was received. The so-called “School Mascot” bill not only essentially repeals this law, it provides more control to the Walker administration by giving hearing supervision to the Department of Administration. In addition, the new law has onerous requirements that will cause complainants to gather signatures from 10 percent of the school district population in order to file a complaint. “What kind of message are we sending to our Native American neighbors, our students and school districts across the nation? I am extremely disappointed that Governor Walker has, once again, chosen to stand on the wrong side of history.” According to news reports, all 11 tribal nations in Wisconsin oppose the law. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.12.2013	Although this deal is not perfect, it allows Congress to continue our dialogue about how we can better serve our constituents. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released this statement after voting for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013. This Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 332-94. “Congress has existed one manufactured crisis to the next. Today marked a small but positive step towards breaking this pattern. The budget agreement reached by Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Representative Paul Ryan (WI-01) represents true compromise. I congratulate both Sen. Murray and my Wisconsin colleague Rep. Ryan on negotiating in good faith. “Neither party received all of what was asked. Republicans were not able to reduce funding for those who rely on our critical entitlement programs. In addition, this deal only partially replaces the sequester and does nothing to assuage the concerns of approximately 1.3 million Americans, including thousands in Wisconsin, who will lose unemployment insurance on December 28 should Congress not act. “Although this deal is not perfect, it allows Congress to continue our dialogue about how we can better serve our constituents. It also affords us the opportunity to discuss items not directly related to the budget, such as passing comprehensive immigration reform. “In light of this bipartisan agreement, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to come together and continue the work we were sent here to do.” To view Rep. Moore on MSNBC speaking on the budget deal and unemployment insurance, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.05.2013	Though no words can wholly console those who mourn, my thoughts and prayers go out to every person touched by his kind spirit and resolve. May his legacy live on today and always. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released this statement after learning that Nelson Mandela had passed. “Today we have lost a visionary leader and hero for human rights. Nelson Mandela broke the chains of oppression in South Africa and opened the hearts and minds of millions. His life’s journey serves as an inspiration to all those who strive to create a more just world. He reaffirmed to all that hope and a steadfast dream of freedom will prevail over hatred and fear. “His courage and strength freed a nation and reshaped our history. In 2005, I had the honor and blessing of meeting this remarkable man. It was a powerful moment that left an indelible mark. “Though no words can wholly console those who mourn, my thoughts and prayers go out to every person touched by his kind spirit and resolve. May his legacy live on today and always.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.22.2013	The rich culture and heritage of the Native American community has had an undeniable positive impact on our way of life. As Thanksgiving approaches, let us remember the great contributions that Native Americans have made and continue to make to bridge our communities and improve our nation. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released this statement in honor of Native American Heritage Month. “The rich culture and heritage of the Native American community has had an undeniable positive impact on our way of life. As Thanksgiving approaches, let us remember the great contributions that Native Americans have made and continue to make to bridge our communities and improve our nation. This week I was proud to celebrate the Native American code talkers whose service and unique languages proved invaluable during WWI and WWII. The Wisconsin tribes who received the Congressional Gold Medals included the Ho-Chunk, Oneida and Menominee Nations. It was such an honor to join them as they received this long overdue recognition. “Protecting the sovereignty and promoting the economic, political and social self-determination for the Native American community remains a pressing priority given the numerous challenges they face. One of our key legislative priorities this year was the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). For far too long, non-Native men could assault Native women with impunity. VAWA not only works to end this scourge, but it also helps provide vital support services to Native American victims of sexual assault and domestic violence. I was proud to be the lead House sponsor of such vital legislation that became law earlier this year. “I am so pleased to support our 11 federally recognized Native American tribes in Wisconsin, including the Forest County Potawatomi whose philanthropic efforts and job creation have improved the lives of many in the Milwaukee area. I look forward to continuing to collaborate with Native Americans in my state and across the nation.” Native American Heritage Month is celebrated every year in November. To learn more about this month, please visit this website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.21.2013	I am so proud to join Congressman Paulsen as we work to protect trafficking victims. I urge my colleagues to do their part to reduce the prevalence of sex trafficking and the pain associated with this horrific crime. share: f t CONTACT: Paulsen: Philip Minardi (202) 503-7809Moore: Staci Cox (202) 225-4572 Washington, D.C. – Congressman Erik Paulsen (MN-03) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04), today introduced bipartisan legislation to combat sex trafficking in American communities. The Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act will give law enforcement the tools they need to turn the tide against sex trafficking in U.S. communities and help victims of these horrific crimes receive the support they need and deserve. “These young girls are victims and need access to services and protection,” said Congressman Paulsen. “The fact is many trafficking victims don’t seek help because they fear they will be punished. It’s time to shepherd victims out of the shadows and bring traffickers and ‘johns’ to justice. We must do everything we can to combat this tragic trend in our own backyard.” In 2006, as a member of the Minnesota House, Paulsen was an author of legislation forming the first statewide human trafficking task force. This task force was the first step towards Minnesota’s Safe Harbor Law. “Sex trafficking is a very serious issue that impacts far too many--including young children--across our nation,” said Congresswoman Moore. “This reality was undeniably exposed after July's Operation Cross Country VII where 10 young people in Milwaukee and dozens more across our nation were rescued from forced prostitution. I am so proud to join Congressman Paulsen as we work to protect trafficking victims. This bill would strengthen our national response to sex trafficking, and provide victims with access to services rather than prosecuting them for being in a bad situation through no fault of their own. I urge my colleagues to do their part to reduce the prevalence of sex trafficking and the pain associated with this horrific crime.” The bill is modeled after Minnesota’s “safe harbor” laws, which help ensure minors who are sold for sex aren’t prosecuted but treated as victims. Companion legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), John Cornyn (R-TX), Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), and Mark Kirk (R-IL). Read the legislation here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.20.2013	As we continue to debate our budgetary priorities, the farm bill, comprehensive immigration reform, and other important issues, I encourage my colleagues to join me in my fight to turn domestic violence victims into survivors. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC — Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) introduced legislation to help prevent gun-related domestic violence homicides. She released this statement: “The danger posed by a gun in the hands of a domestic violence abuser is not a new occurrence. Last year, this violence took the lives of 52 Wisconsinites including that of Zina Daniel, the victim who was shot to death by her estranged husband while working at a spa in Brookfield, Wisconsin. Hundreds more across our nation were fatally shot by an intimate partner. As a strong advocate for women, particularly women who have suffered through domestic violence, I remain committed to doing all I can to prevent these tragedies. “Today I introduced the Domestic Violence Criminal Disarmament Act, which would encourage states to adopt baseline policies that (1.) require officials to routinely take into account whether a gun is present in a serious domestic violence situation and (2.) take steps to protect the victim by removing the gun from the equation if it is illegally possessed or determined to be a threat to the victim. “As we continue to debate our budgetary priorities, the farm bill, comprehensive immigration reform, and other important issues, I encourage my colleagues to join me in my fight to turn domestic violence victims into survivors.” Supporters of the Domestic Violence Criminal Disarmament Act include the following: End Domestic Abuse Wisconsin, National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, and Violence Policy Center. Original Cosponsors include Rep. Donna Edwards and Rep. Robin Kelly. To read Congresswoman Moore’s Huffington Post op-ed and learn more about the Domestic Violence Criminal Disarmament Act, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.19.2013	At a minimum, I urge our governor to keep his word and cover those newly eligible for BadgerCare beginning January 1. I continue to encourage him to stop his partisan games and accept federal funds to expand Medicaid. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Moore) 202-225- 4572Peter Knudsen (Kind) 202-225-5506Samuel Lau (Pocan) 202-225-2906 Washington, DC— Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) along with Congressman Ron Kind (WI-03) and Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-02) sent a letter to Governor Scott Walker expressing frustration with his most recent BadgerCare decision and urging him not to delay insurance coverage for approximately 80,000 Wisconsinites. Under Governor Walker's previous plan, about 80,000 low-income Wisconsinites would be transferred into the Affordable Care Act exchange from the BadgerCare program. At that same time, Governor Walker would accept about 80,000 new BadgerCare recipients. Last week, he announced his intent to delay the transfer. However, to offset that cost he would also delay covering those newly eligible Medicaid recipients. “I am extremely disappointed that Governor Walker is once again turning his back on our most vulnerable populations,” said Rep. Moore. “As he touts his latest health care agenda item encouraging the legislature to keep current BadgerCare recipients on the program through March, the health of thousands could be in jeopardy. He is no hero. At a minimum, I urge our governor to keep his word and cover those newly eligible for BadgerCare beginning January 1. I continue to encourage him to stop his partisan games and accept federal funds to expand Medicaid.” “Governor Walker never should have rejected federal support for Medicaid expansion in the first place. There are federal funds available right now for low-income Wisconsinites who need health care coverage, and all that’s standing in the way is the Governor,” said Rep. Kind. “He needs to put partisanship aside, and follow the example of many Republican governors around the country who have expanded Medicaid coverage for low-income individuals.” “The most viable option for Governor Walker has been an option available to him all along—expand health care access in Wisconsin at no cost to the state. We simply would not be in this situation if Governor Walker had not rejected the $4 billion in federal funds to expand BadgerCare and provide families with secure, affordable and accessible health care. The health security of Wisconsin residents is too important to be used in a game of political football,” said Rep. Pocan. The letter reads as follows: The Honorable Scott WalkerGovernor of Wisconsin115 East CapitolMadison, WI 53702 Dear Governor Walker, We are writing to express our concern about the impending health insurance coverage gap that could result for the 80,000 individuals under 100% of the poverty level, as a consequence of your recent proposal to the state legislature. Last Thursday, November 14th, we felt relief when you announced that you would allow a three-month extension of BadgerCare coverage to the approximately 77,000 low-income Wisconsinites whose coverage is due to expire on January 1, 2014. Given the challenging rollout of the Marketplaces thus far, we agree with your assessment that these individuals—who are scheduled to be transferred to the Affordable Care Act Health Insurance Marketplaces—would benefit from a longer enrollment period. We also support your proposal to extend the state’s high-risk insurance plan, known as the Health Insurance Risk-Sharing Plan (HIRSP), for three additional months. However, we are gravely concerned about the fate of the 80,000 individuals under 100% of the poverty line, who were promised access to BadgerCare as of January 1, 2014 in your budget request. As you know, your budget would have granted BadgerCare eligibility to all those under the poverty level, including childless adults. Your Department of Health Services has been engaging in an outreach plan to the newly-eligible population, and some individuals who have applied for BadgerCare (through the Marketplaces or elsewhere) have already received confirmations of BadgerCare coverage. We were dismayed to learn that you now plan to renege on the promise to cover those below the poverty line in January 2014, and have now proposed delaying their eligibility until April 1, 2014. The key source of our concern is that individuals below 100% of the poverty level are ineligible for premium tax credits to purchase coverage in the Marketplace. As a result of your budget proposal, the newly-eligible BadgerCare population will fall into a three-month gap in coverage; they will be unable to sign up for the BadgerCare program but also unable to purchase subsidized coverage in the Marketplace. Due to their low income level, they would not have the means to purchase coverage without a subsidy. This group would thus be in a unique and inequitable situation—essentially, worse off and with fewer options than other Wisconsinites. Given that this is a vulnerable population—they are already living in poverty and are more likely to be in poor health than the rest of the overall population—we strongly urge you to reconsider your plan for this group. We realize that you plan to utilize the “savings” from delaying coverage for the 80,000 individuals under the poverty line to pay for coverage for about 77,000 parents currently on BadgerCare. However, we encourage you to seek alternative budgetary savings, which would allow you to provide coverage for both populations through March 2014. In addition, we once again recommend that you reconsider your choice not to fully expand BadgerCare under the Affordable Care Act. You have the option to expand BadgerCare with a 100 percent match for all newly-eligible enrollees. This funding would allow you to offset the cost of continuing coverage for BadgerCare enrollees above the poverty line. It is time to move past politics and do what’s right for Wisconsin. The Affordable Care Act provides the opportunity for Wisconsin to receive $119 million to ensure that our most at risk populations have health care access and coverage. We urge you to join your Republican Governor colleagues and expand Medicaid. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan, and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, among others, recognized the need to move beyond political rhetoric and put their constituents’ health first. We remain dedicated to collaborating with you, and the Obama Administration, to ensure the best possible outcome for Wisconsin under the Affordable Care Act. We request that you consider our suggestions for the most vulnerable population in our state. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Gwen Moore Member of Congress Ron Kind Member of Congress Mark PocanMember of Congress Cc: The Honorable Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services To view the letter online please click here. For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.15.2013	This legislation is nothing more than another attempt to undermine the Affordable Care Act (ACA). share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC— Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) voted against H.R. 3350, the Republican titled “Keep Your Health Plan” Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 261-157. She released this statement: “This legislation is nothing more than another attempt to undermine the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The so-called ‘Keep Your Health Plan’ Act does not actually require insurance companies to maintain their policies for those who would like to remain covered under the same plans. Perhaps most noteworthy, however, is that this bill will allow insurance companies to offer policies to new consumers that do not meet the quality standards under the Affordable Care Act. H.R. 3350 would give insurance companies the ability to discriminate against consumers based on their pre-existing conditions and gender. In addition, this legislation would remove the peace of mind offered under the ACA by restoring annual health care limits. “Instead of working to dismantle the ACA, we should work together to improve it where necessary. Recently, President Obama announced that he is unrolling an administrative fix to the Affordable Care Act that will allow insurers to offer customers the chance to renew their existing health coverage through 2014, without changing their plans. Insurers would have to notify their enrollees that they can purchase coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace, where they could be eligible for premium tax credits. Insurers would also have to tell consumers that their existing plans do not offer the same protections as the plans in the Marketplace. “Clearly, the President is responding to the many consumers who want the ability to keep their existing health plans. Given the extremely challenging rollout, people have been blocked from viewing the plans offered through the online exchange and finding a plan that is competitively-priced and comprehensive. I encourage the Obama administration to continue working hard to fix the website. I look forward to learning more about the President’s plan and investigating how it will impact the people of Wisconsin. In the same vein, I urge my colleagues to put aside political posturing and work to ensure that Americans can receive the care they need and deserve.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.14.2013	I am relieved that these individuals will have more time to enroll, but extremely disappointed that they will be kicked off BadgerCare in the first place. There was no need to have jeopardized health care coverage for this population at all. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC— Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) responded to Governor Scott Walker’s call for a special legislative session to delay moving people from BadgerCare into the Health Insurance Marketplaces for three months. Governor Scott Walker also called for a three-month delay in changes to the state’s high-risk sharing plan. “I have been concerned all along about the potential ramifications of Governor Walker’s decision to cut off BadgerCare access for 77,000 individuals and families—and the state’s long, convoluted timeline for outreach to those losing their coverage. Now that the federal system is not running smoothly, I have become even more alarmed about the Governor’s treatment of BadgerCare recipients. I am relieved that these individuals will have more time to enroll, but extremely disappointed that they will be kicked off BadgerCare in the first place. There was no need to have jeopardized health care coverage for this population at all. “The implementation of the Affordable Care Act has been rocky nationwide, but in Wisconsin the problems were exacerbated by our governor’s decisions not to operate a state-run exchange, not to cooperate with the set-up of the federal Marketplace and not to accept federal support for BadgerCare expansion. My urgent request is that the legislature do all it can to look out for the best interests of all Wisconsinites, including BadgerCare beneficiaries, and enact these two changes as soon as possible. “I supported the Affordable Care Act, but I also know that we must fix what is not working. I look forward to working with both the Obama administration and Governor Walker to ensure that the law works well for the people of Wisconsin.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.11.2013	Every year, America comes together to commemorate and honor the work of military members who have served our country in their lifetime. Their personal sacrifices and dedication to protect our great nation will never go unnoticed. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) joined the nation to acknowledge and support our nation’s veterans, service members and their families as we honor Veterans Day. “Every year, America comes together to commemorate and honor the work of military members who have served our country in their lifetime. Their personal sacrifices and dedication to protect our great nation will never go unnoticed. “As we celebrate our veterans, may we also remember our fallen heroes. No parade or celebration will ever be able to bring back the family members, neighbors and loved ones who have sacrificed their lives so that we may continue to pursue the American Dream. We can honor their memories, however, by lifting up more than 2 million troops and reservists, their families and 23 million veterans, including nearly 400,000 in Wisconsin, and working to ensure that they have the support they need during their mission and back home. “Those who served and sacrificed should not have to fight for employment back home. We must work to expand economic opportunity to everyone, especially our military members. Last Congress, I was proud to support the “VOW to Hire Heroes Act” that provides tax credits to businesses that hire unemployed veterans. President Obama signed this legislation into law in November 2011. As we strive to employ our service members, we must also help preserve landmarks such as the Milwaukee Soldiers Home, so that these places remain a part of our history and as memorials of the service of our veterans. “I urge my colleagues to remain committed to supporting and empowering our veterans. Let us work to ensure that veterans receive the proper benefits and services they need to make a smooth transition upon returning home from war.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.24.2013	I'm excited to join this distinguished panel to discuss the need for comprehensive immigration reform. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – On Sunday, October 27, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will join this year’s Latino Family Expo, hosted by Victor Huyke publisher of El Conquistador. In conjunction with the expo, the Congresswoman will highlight the benefits of comprehensive immigration reform (CIR) and work on the federal level to pass CIR into law. “I’m excited to join this distinguished panel to discuss the need for comprehensive immigration reform,” said Rep. Moore. “This summer, we had so much positive momentum towards passing CIR into law. We must fight against congressional gridlock and for the 11 million aspiring Americans living in the shadows of this nation. I look forward to interacting with the audience as we continue our call to action for comprehensive immigration reform.” For more information regarding this panel discussion, please contact Victor Huyke at 414-383-1000 or conquistador@bizwi.rr.com. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4)Darryl Morin of LULACImmigration Attorney Marc ChristopherState Rep. JoCasta ZamarripaMilwaukee County Supervisor Marina DimitrijevicAlderman José PérezJudge Pedro Colón WHAT: Panel Discussion in Support of Comprehensive Immigration Reform WHEN: Sunday, October 27, 2013 1 – 3pmCT WHERE: Wisconsin Career Academy4801 South 2nd StreetMilwaukee, WI 53207(Corner of South 2nd and West Layton Avenue) ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.23.2013	Although this bill is not perfect, H.R. 3080 will help sustain jobs and commerce which are important to our city and region. It is critical, however, that work continues in further negotiations with the Senate to address concerns prior to passage. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined her colleagues to pass H.R. 3080 – voting to authorize a host of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers activities including harbor maintenance, dredging, flood control, and other infrastructure construction and repair. Although Congress usually votes for authorization every two years, it has been nearly six years since such a bill has become law. The bill includes a number of provisions to help facilitate work in the Great Lakes, including a provision that will allow the Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District to move forward with a project here in the district. The bill also has language that would direct the Army Corps of Engineers to look at the Great Lakes needs as a single, interdependent system to best allocate funds nationwide each year, thereby helping the region better compete for limited funds. “This legislation recognizes the need to invest in the infrastructure that protects navigation, protects against flooding and storm damage, and protects the environment,” said Rep. Moore. “I have said many times that one of my greatest joys in Congress is representing Lake Michigan and the livelihoods of those who rely on the vitality of our Great Lakes. I am pleased my colleagues were able to reach across the aisle to support our waterways, our economy and our way of life. “In all, the Lakes support approximately 1.5 million jobs every year across a wide range of industries and communities. H.R. 3080 will help sustain jobs and commerce which are important to our city and region. “This legislation is not perfect, and I certainly have heard the concerns about provisions undermining key environmental laws and setting arbitrary deadlines for public comments on projects and reviews. It is critical that work continues in further negotiations with the Senate to address these concerns prior to passage into law.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.23.2013	Thanks to Citizen Action of Wisconsin's new analysis, we now have tangible evidence that Wisconsin's approach to implementation has put our citizens at a costly disadvantage, relative to Minnesota... share: f t Contacts: Robert Kraig (414) 322-5324 robert.kraig@citizenactionwi.orgKevin Kane (414) 550-8280, kevin.kane@citizenactionwi.org Decisions made by Wisconsin explains massive health insurance premium disparity between MN and WI on new health insurance marketplacesReport Includes Local Health Insurance Rate Data Wisconsin and Minnesota Statewide: On a media call Wednesday that included U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore, Citizen Action of Wisconsin released a new report documenting vast differences between Minnesota and Wisconsin in the cost for health insurance on the individual insurance marketplace created by the Affordable Care Act. The report also compares health insurance individual marketplace rates for Wisconsin’s major metro areas, and reveals major differentials in cost. The report, A Tale of Two States: Why Wisconsin’s Health Insurance Individual Marketplace Premiums are Dramatically Higher than Minnesota’s, shows that two critical decisions made differently in the two states explain a substantial portion of the rate disparity. The full report can be downloaded here. Key Report Findings --Wisconsin health insurance marketplace premiums for single coverage will be on average 79% to 99% higher than premiums in Minnesota, before tax credits are applied. That is a difference of over $1,800 a year. --The health insurance cost differential will be even worse for some major Wisconsin cities. Rates in La Crosse are 136% higher than the Minnesota average, rates in Eau Claire are 116% higher, and rates in Milwaukee are 112% higher. --Two key decisions in Wisconsin’s Affordable Care Act implementation play a substantial role in raising health insurance rates in Wisconsin relative to Minnesota: the decision to reject enhanced federal Medicaid dollars, and the decision not to implement rigorous review of health insurance rates. --Wisconsin has the opportunity to bring down rates by accepting enhanced federal Medicaid funds and using state powers such as reviewing and rejecting excessive rates to make health insurance more affordable. --Wisconsin’s rejection of a state-based marketplace strip policymakers of additional tools for moderating health insurance rates. --The cost gap with Minnesota has the biggest impact on middle class Wisconsinites because Affordable Care Act tax credits mitigate the impact on lower income people who buy insurance on the marketplace. “For the first time in our nation's history, Americans can receive the health care coverage they deserve, regardless of their socioeconomic status or pre-existing conditions. It is shameful that Governor Scott Walker is seemingly doing everything in his power to prevent proper implementation of the Affordable Care Act,” said Congresswoman Gwen Moore. “Thanks to Citizen Action of Wisconsin’s new analysis, we now have tangible evidence that Wisconsin’s approach to implementation has put our citizens at a costly disadvantage, relative to Minnesota – a state that has long had similar health care systems and costs. I encourage the Governor to rethink his strategy and begin to work in the best interests of those he represents.” “The breathtaking health insurance cost gap between Wisconsin and Minnesota needs to be immediately addressed by policymakers in Madison,” said Robert Kraig, Executive Director of Citizen Action of Wisconsin “This report shows that the Walker Administration's decision not to take advantage of all of the tools made available by national health care reform will be very costly for Wisconsin families struggling to secure affordable health care.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.16.2013	Although I am pleased that the impasse has finally ended after 16 days of partisan action, we must remember that this dysfunction should have never occurred. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after the House of Representatives voted to fund our entire federal government and pay the debt our nation has already incurred. “This evening my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both legislative bodies put politics aside and voted in the best interests of the American people,” said Rep. Moore. “Once President Obama signs the legislation into law, the government shutdown will end and a global economic disaster will be averted.” The Senate-approved language passed the House by a vote of 285 to 144. “Although I am pleased that the impasse has finally ended after 16 days of partisan action, we must remember that this dysfunction should have never occurred. As Members of Congress, it is our privilege and our obligation to represent our country above our respective parties. This Congress has failed. The Republican Party has steadfastly held on to their destructive political ideology, even in the face of widespread opposition from the American people. The House GOP cannot find consensus within their own party, let alone reach across the aisle to begin to work for their constituents, not in spite of them. Due to their seeming inability to lead this nation with positive conviction and purpose, we have been operating from one manufactured crisis to the next. The American people deserve better. “During the coming budget negotiations, I hope my Republican colleagues remember the pain they have caused our economy and families across this nation. I implore every Member on the negotiating team to come together in a good faith effort to address our differences. Let us all do what is right for the American people and end these antics.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.15.2013	Although I am in Washington, DC due to the federal government shutdown and debt ceiling impasse, my office has provided a tremendous opportunity to learn more about how our landmark health care reform law impacts individuals and families. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – On Tuesday, October 15 and Wednesday, October 16, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host two constituent – focused health care forums. “I am so pleased that my office will host information sessions on the Affordable Care Act for my constituents,” said Rep. Moore. “Although I am in Washington, DC due to the federal government shutdown and debt ceiling impasse, my office has provided a tremendous opportunity to learn more about how our landmark health care reform law impacts individuals and families. I hope my constituents come with questions and are able to engage in a constructive dialogue surrounding this law.” Spanish translation services will be offered at the October 16 information session. For more information about these events, please call the Milwaukee office at 414-297-1140 or visit Congresswoman Moore’s website. WHO: Kathleen Falk, HHS, Director, Region VEd Kamin, Wisconsin DHS, MiLESJoy Tapper, Moderator, MPA Executive Director, Milwaukee Health Care Partnership (MHCP)Jenni Sevenich, CEO Progressive Community Health CenterPatricia McManus, PhD., RN, President & CEO of the Black Health Coalition of Wisconsin (BHCW)Matthew Hayes, Attorney, Senior Law ProjectJessica Gathirimu, Director CHAP, City of Milwaukee WHAT: Health Insurance Marketplace for Consumers WHEN: Tuesday, October 15, 20135:00-7:00pm WHERE: Washington Park Senior Center 4420 West Vliet StreetMilwaukee, WI 53208 *** WHO: Dr. Magda G. Peck, Dean, Joseph J. Zilber School of Public Health, UWM Ed Kamin, Wisconsin DHS, MiLESHeather Dummer Combs, Moderator, Enrollment Project Manager, MHCPClarene Mitchell, Director Collaboration & Communications, BHCWMatthew Hayes, Attorney, Senior Law ProjectJessica Gathirimu, Director CHAP, City of MilwaukeeDr. Julie Schuller, MD, MPH, EVP, VP of Clinical Affairs, Sixteenth Street Health Centers WHAT: Health Insurance Marketplace for Consumers WHEN: Wednesday, October 16, 20135:00-7:00pm WHERE: Kosciuszko Community Center 2201 South Seventh StreetMilwaukee, WI 53215 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.09.2013	Our service members and their families deserve full and immediate government support, not day-to day or half-baked solutions. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted to support the families of fallen soldiers. She released this statement: “My heart continues to break for every family who has lost a loved one in service to this nation. These families are traditionally given funds within 36 hours to support funeral costs and other expenses. Yet, due to the government shutdown, five families did not receive this pay, including the next of kin to one of my constituents. Denying these funds is more than devastating, it’s an affront to those who have given the ultimate sacrifice to protect our freedoms and democracy. The last thing that these families need is more pain and suffering enacted by their government. “I recently cosponsored legislation to ensure that funding for survivor benefits for families of fallen military members is not another casualty of this shutdown. Today, I voted for passage. I know that rectifying this tragic misstep is a priority for Senator Tammy Baldwin as well. I hope she is able to work with her colleagues in the Senate to move this legislation and correct this injustice quickly. “I am proud that my colleagues in the House were able to join together to support continuing these essential benefits. Yet today’s vote is not enough. According to an NBC News Report, Republican aides believed the military appropriations bill funded death gratuities. It did not. It is becoming increasingly evident that a piecemeal approach to funding our federal government is inadequate. We passed legislation to pay our military and the Defense Department civilian employees who support them, but we provided limited authority to pay for supplies, parts and the fuel they need to do their jobs. Our service members and their families deserve full and immediate government support, not day-to day or half-baked solutions. “In truth, all Americans deserve vital services, programs and benefits that our government provides. Poverty-stricken children relying on Head Start, veterans in search of assistance, cancer patients looking for a last hope all deserve our support. We must reopen our government. I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to work with Democrats and end this government shutdown.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.01.2013	Despite the futile resistance from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the Affordable Care Act's health insurance marketplace opened as planned and the 2014 enrollment period will continue until March 31st. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, the health insurance marketplace officially opened. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement: “Today marks a historic milestone for Wisconsin and the American people. Despite the futile resistance from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, the Affordable Care Act’s health insurance marketplace opened as planned and the 2014 enrollment period will continue until March 31st. Coverage will begin as early as January 1st, 2014. “America will remember this moment not only as the day the GOP shut down our government, but as the day Democrats expanded health care access to millions. I urge everyone in my district to take full advantage of the benefits offered by our landmark health care reform law. Enroll for coverage through the health insurance marketplace today.” For more information on the Affordable Care Act and your coverage options please visit healthcare.gov. To learn more about how Obamacare impacts Wisconsin, please visit my official website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.01.2013	Tonight the GOP has not only pushed us to the brink of another manufactured crisis, they have forced our country over the edge. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the shutdown of our federal government. “I am dismayed and disgusted that the Republican Party has taken their ideological fight over Obamacare this far. Tonight the GOP has not only pushed us to the brink of another manufactured crisis, they have forced our country over the edge. This childish act not only impacts thousands of federal government employees, it could also close the vital nutrition program for Women, Infants and Children, temporarily suspend government-backed small business loans and send a devastating shock wave through our economy. “Despite the appalling behavior demonstrated by the Republican Party this evening, they have not and will not prevent the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. As I have said many times, the Obamacare train has left the station. The health care marketplaces will open later this morning and millions will have access to health insurance for the first time. “It is past time my Republican colleagues understand that enough is enough. I implore GOP leadership to abandon their stalling tactics and allow a vote on the Senate’s clean Continuing Resolution. Time has officially run out. This hostage situation must end.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.29.2013	We are two days away from a government shutdown and an economic calamity. It is past time House Republicans realized that their obligation is not to a tea party platform, but to the American people. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after House Republicans voted to move our government one step closer to a shutdown. "Tonight my colleagues on the other side of the aisle voted to hold our government hostage in an effort to uphold their reckless and partisan agenda. "The House GOP has voted over 40 times to undermine our landmark health care reform law. We get it. Now, they are willing to damage our already fragile economy in the name of politics. Imagine our economic progress if House Republicans focused half of this attention on working to create jobs for the American people. This enduring ideological fight over the Affordable Care Act must end. "We are two days away from a government shutdown and an economic calamity. It is past time House Republicans realized that their obligation is not to a tea party platform, but to the American people. "Our job here is simple: to pass a Continuing Resolution that will fund our government. I urge my colleagues to do what is right and avert a government shutdown." Please click here to watch Congresswoman Moore speak out against the GOP government shutdown bill on the House floor. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.20.2013	America cannot afford another GOP manufactured crisis. I urge my colleagues to abandon their political games and support the American people. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the passage of a Republican proposal to fund the government until December 15, while creating unnecessary harm to the American economy and the health and well-being of millions. “House Republicans passed another bill that would defund the Affordable Care Act—a partisan move that increases the likelihood of a government shutdown. Perhaps the 42nd time is the charm. Yet if the previous 41 times House Republicans have tried and failed to undermine our landmark health care reform law have shown us anything, it is that history repeats itself. This bill will fail again. “The current GOP agenda is reckless and wasteful. The Republican Party is willing to risk the full faith and credit of the United States in a futile attempt to stop uninsured Americans from receiving the affordable health care coverage they need. It pains me to see my colleagues attaching their most destructive policies onto must-pass legislation that would simply keep our government operating. “In addition to denying critical health care access to millions, their legislation would continue sequester level funding, thereby jeopardizing our economy, infrastructure, and critical initiatives such as Head Start and research funding. “America cannot afford another GOP manufactured crisis. I urge my colleagues to abandon their political games and support the American people.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.19.2013	I should be standing in bewilderment as House Republicans passed a nutrition bill that cuts nearly $40 billion in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) funding. Sadly, I am not surprised. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after House Republicans passed a bill that cuts nutrition funding by $40 billion. “I should be standing in bewilderment as House Republicans passed a nutrition bill that cuts nearly $40 billion in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) funding. Sadly, I am not surprised. Once again, instead of working to help struggling Americans, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle chose to cater to the minority within their Party. “Over 47 million people rely on this vital lifeline each year. The Republican bill could cut approximately 4 million Americans from nutrition assistance. In my home state of Wisconsin, this reduction would mean that over 150,000 people, including almost 4,000 children, could lose benefits. We should never aim to empty the plates of hungry Americans. Yet, that is exactly what this legislation seeks to do. “Despite this shameful vote, I will continue to fight for the millions of children, elderly, people with disabilities and many others who depend on SNAP to survive. I urge my colleagues to join me in speaking up for the hungry in our nation.” To watch Congresswoman Moore speak out against SNAP cuts on the House floor, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.17.2013	As we use this month to learn more about how Latino culture has so deeply enriched every aspect of American life, let us remember that our struggle continues. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commemorating National Hispanic Heritage Month, which is recognized from September 15 through October 15: “I am proud, once again, to celebrate the varied way Latinos contribute to our history, our diversity and our overall way of life. “As we use this month to learn more about how Latino culture has so deeply enriched every aspect of American life, let us remember that our struggle continues. While many Latino-Americans have positively contributed to the social fabric of our nation for decades, or even for centuries, others are new or aspiring citizens. “In Congress, we will soon debate and decide the fate of an array of pressing issues. Immigration reform cannot slip from the table. I was pleased that this year we have made significant progress towards realizing the dream of comprehensive immigration reform, but our work cannot stop here. We must continue to use the bipartisan support gained this summer to build momentum to shape an immigration policy that is fair and humane to all aspiring Americans, especially immigrant children. “As our journey towards comprehensive immigration reform endures, let us recommit ourselves to embracing and valuing our diversity.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.12.2013	I am excited for these staff changes and look forward to working with each individual in his or her new capacity. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI -4) released the following statement regarding recent staff changes in her Milwaukee office. “Effective September 30, my long time District Director, friend and confidante Lois O’Keefe will step down. I wish to thank her for her constant support and years of service working to improve the lives of those in my district. “I am pleased to announce that my Senior Advisor, Shirley Ellis will now assume the District Director position and duties. I have known and trusted Shirley for many years and am confident her consistent quality work will continue. “Dan Hereth has been promoted to Deputy District Director and will actively seek new ways to interact with my constituency. Marilynn Thaney has become the Casework Supervisor and will supervise my constituent casework operation. Izmira Aitch, our newest addition, will serve as a Constituent/Outreach Liaison. “I am excited for these staff changes and look forward to working with each individual in his or her new capacity.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.12.2013	I am so proud that Harley-Davidson remains an integral landmark in my district, helping to spread the dream of personal freedom to those riding in Milwaukee and beyond. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Moore) 202-225- 4572Kyle Roskam (Ribble) 202-225-5665 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Congressman Reid Ribble (WI-8) introduced a resolution recognizing the 110th anniversary of the Harley-Davidson Motor Company, which is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Harley-Davidson Motor Company was founded in 1903 by childhood friends William S. Harley and Arthur Davidson. “Harley-Davidson is truly a Wisconsin and an American treasure. For more than a century, it’s been an important part of our state’s economy and our local communities. I’ve been a rider for most of my life. I own a Harley, and I’m proud to say that I come from Wisconsin, the home of Harley-Davidson,” said Rep. Ribble. “Since its beginnings, the Harley-Davidson Motor Company has remained a significant contributor to our economy and our way of life,” said Rep. Moore. “From their significant wartime contributions, to their unmatched innovation and philanthropic efforts, this company has continually left an indelible, positive mark on history. I am so proud that Harley-Davidson remains an integral landmark in my district, helping to spread the dream of personal freedom to those riding in Milwaukee and beyond.” The Harley-Davidson Motor Company is the world’s largest heavyweight motorcycle manufacturer. To learn more about their history and achievements, please visit their website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.10.2013	It is my hope that we are able to positively impact the Syrian crisis through diplomatic channels. I await the Syrian response with expectancy and caution. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Tonight President Obama addressed the nation regarding his stance on Syria and Congressional next steps. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement. “I am pleased that the President has asked Congress to postpone the vote authorizing United States military action in Syria. The decision to engage our military in any capacity is something that should not be taken lightly. As Members of Congress, we must work to ensure that every diplomatic action has been taken before deciding to enact a military mission in Syria. “Tonight, President Obama spoke to the American people and emphasized the importance of sending a firm message to those who violate human rights and threaten to further disturb international peace. I, like the President, stand strong in my belief that the atrocious actions President Assad has committed against his own people cannot be tolerated. “We, however, must determine the best course of action to help contain and restrict the use of chemical weapons – while at the same time avoiding actions that could inadvertently exacerbate the problem. I am pleased that President Obama has chosen to give the Syrian regime an opportunity to relinquish its chemical weaponry. “It is my hope that we are able to positively impact the Syrian crisis through diplomatic channels. I await the Syrian response with expectancy and caution.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.31.2013	I will continue to fully review the recent intelligence regarding the chemical attacks in Syria. I look forward to engaging in a comprehensive and productive debate on whether the United States should take military action. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today President Obama addressed the American people regarding the use of chemical weapons in Syria and what role the United States should play in containing these attacks. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI -4) released the following statement: "The atrocious acts President Assad has committed against his people are a direct violation of human rights and a threat to our international peace. "I am pleased President Obama has decided to seek congressional authorization for military action in Syria. "I will continue to fully review the recent intelligence regarding the chemical attacks in Syria. I look forward to engaging in a comprehensive and productive debate on whether the United States should take military action.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.28.2013	James will be deeply missed by all who were touched by his passionate and loving spirit. My thoughts and prayers are with all who knew him. As we mourn in the days ahead, may we seek comfort in knowing he rests with God. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after learning that former Milwaukee County Supervisor, and close friend, James White has passed. “I am deeply saddened to learn that James White is no longer with us. James was a close friend and tireless advocate for civil rights, youth and the poor. Milwaukee has lost a great man who consistently supported our underserved communities. A powerful voice for the voiceless, he provided support to those suffering from health related issues. In his former role as Milwaukee County Supervisor, James worked each day towards advancing the lives of Milwaukeeans as a strong community activist. In his calling as an ordained minister, he sought to fully embody the Christian spirit through his work. “James will be deeply missed by all who were touched by his passionate and loving spirit. My thoughts and prayers are with all who knew him. As we mourn in the days ahead, may we seek comfort in knowing he rests with God.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.28.2013	Regardless of your background or belief system, I urge all people to recommit ourselves in our fight for jobs, freedom, justice and equality. May we march on together. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in celebration and reflection of our civil rights journey. “Today marks the 50th anniversary of one of the most powerful and significant civil rights moments in American history,” said Rep. Moore. “Since the momentous march and the iconic I Have a Dream speech, our nation has seen immense civil rights progress through laws such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. In 2008, we elected our first African-American to the White House. As a people and as a country, we have overcome many obstacles to racial equality. “Yet as we celebrate our progress, we cannot become complacent. Fifty years later, we are far from a post-racial society. From the tragic events surrounding Trayvon Martin, to the Supreme Court turning back the clock on voting rights, to devastating poverty and unemployment levels, and large disparities in education and health, the list of inequities that plague our community is long and challenging. Our fight is not over, and our job is not done. “Though our task may be daunting, we must not become discouraged nor give up hope. We must join as a nation to continue our civil rights struggle. When we all fight for equality in every aspect of life, everyone benefits. “Regardless of your background or belief system, I urge all people to recommit ourselves in our fight for jobs, freedom, justice and equality. May we march on together.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.06.2013	The Voting Rights Act not only liberated us – it empowered us. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI - Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement celebrating the 48th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “Exactly 48 years ago today, Lyndon B. Johnson transformed the face of American democracy when he signed into law the Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965. Prompted by a passionate civil rights movement, this legislation made remarkable gains by ensuring access for all Americans to vote without the fear of literacy tests or senseless taxes. The Voting Rights Act not only liberated us – it empowered us. “Despite the strides we have made to protect our voting rights, our work is far from over. The Supreme Court recently made toothless an integral part of the Voting Rights Act that grants the Department of Justice oversight over voting changes in areas that have a history of racial discrimination. Already, in places like Texas, discriminatory voting practices are being implemented. I applaud Attorney General Eric Holder’s commitment to using every last available and remaining tool to protect our right to vote, but the onus is on Congress to restore this historically vital section of the VRA. “As we celebrate the 48th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, I urge my colleagues to continue the fight against voter suppression.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.05.2013	As we continue to lift the Sikh community in prayer, I encourage all Americans to honor the lives of those who were lost. May we all recommit ourselves to ending this nonsensical violence. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in recognition of the six victims who lost their lives during the Sikh Temple shooting that occurred one year ago today. “On August 5, 2012, we stood in horror as six innocent lives were tragically taken in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. Families were broken and America was shaken. “Although this day will be forever stained in American history, violence does not define us or our resolve to create a peaceful existence. While we recall the pain this tragedy caused, we also remember a nation standing up in solidarity. Through our heartbreak, we learned that we are strongest when we embody our great American spirit to rise above our differences and support one another. “As we continue to lift the Sikh community in prayer, I encourage all Americans to honor the lives of those who were lost. May we all recommit ourselves to ending this nonsensical violence.” Rep. Moore recently cosponsored a resolution recognizing the one-year anniversary of the Sikh Temple shooting. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.02.2013	What Republicans seem to misunderstand is that whether they vote to repeal it 40 times or 400 times, Obamacare is the law of the land. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after House Republicans voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act for the 40th time. “Apparently 39 repeal votes weren’t enough. Instead of bringing a jobs bill to the House floor for a vote, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle voted for the 40th time to repeal our landmark health care reform law. What Republicans seem to misunderstand is that whether they vote to repeal it 40 times or 400 times, Obamacare is the law of the land. “I urge my Republican colleagues to end their fruitless attempts at repeal and work toward creating jobs for the American people.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.02.2013	We must pass a nutrition bill that helps feed hungry Americans, not one that punishes the poor. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement opposing legislation that includes $40 billion in nutrition assistance cuts. It has been reported that Republican leadership plans to introduce their bill in September. “This bill is the newest round of Republican tactics to harm the hungry. If the nutrition cuts in the first farm bill didn’t go far enough to take food from the mouths of hungry families, this legislation surely will. More than 47 million Americans rely on food assistance to survive. House Republicans seem determined to remove this vital lifeline. “I join Democrats in our opposition to these callous cuts. We must pass a nutrition bill that helps feed hungry Americans, not one that punishes the poor. ” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.01.2013	LGBT homelessness is an issue that negatively impacts our children, our families and our communities. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Moore) (202) 225- 4572Samuel Lau (Pocan) (202) 225-2906 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined her Wisconsin colleague Congressman Mark Pocan (WI-2) to introduce legislation supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) runaway and homeless youth. The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (RHYA), last reauthorized in 2008 as the Reconnecting Homeless Youth Act, is up for reauthorization this year. Currently, the legislation omits language relating to LGBT youth. The Runaway and Homeless Youth Inclusion Act (RHYIA) would help ensure that LGBT youth are not discriminated against and that grant recipients have the cultural competency to effectively serve these youth. In addition, RHYIA would take important steps to provide family support services for those struggling with the sexual orientation or gender identity of youth in their families. “I ran away from home when I was an adolescent,” said Rep. Moore. “It was the first and last time. Living on the streets is a difficult and dangerous experience – one that no child should have to endure. Unfortunately, homelessness is the reality for hundreds of thousands of youth each year. According to some studies, LGBT youth account for up to 40 percent of all homeless youth. LGBT homelessness is an issue that negatively impacts our children, our families and our communities. Omitting these young people from the RHYA sends a powerful message to this population: that addressing their trauma and fear is not a priority. The LGBT youth homelessness experience cannot be ignored.” LGBT youth are disproportionately represented in youth homelessness statistics. The Runaway and Homeless Youth Inclusion Act would require the Family and Youth Service Bureau to compile comprehensive data on the pervasiveness of LGBT youth homelessness. “Homelessness is one of the most pressing matters affecting LGBT youth,” Rep. Pocan said. “Young people in the LGBT community are disproportionately at-risk for homelessness, often as a result of the rejection, discrimination, or violence they face simply for being themselves. We have a moral responsibility to ensure that all of our youth, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, have access to life-saving services and safe, welcoming places to stay. By passing the reauthorization of an inclusive Runaway and Homeless Youth Act, we can begin to address this tragic problem and provide needed support to all of our young people in times of need.” “No young person should ever be homeless, let alone because they are gay or transgender, but when they are, we need to ensure that they are treated with dignity and respect when they seek help,” said Cyndi Lauper, Co-Founder of the True Colors Fund, which works to raise awareness about and help bring an end to LGBT youth homelessness. “I applaud Representatives Moore and Pocan for championing the Runaway and Homeless Youth Inclusion Act. Every young person, no matter who they are, deserves an even break and should never be turned away. If we want a strong future, we need to invest in all of our youth.” Representatives Moore and Pocan extend their thanks to current supporters of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Inclusion Act, including the following: Pathfinders, the True Colors Fund and the National Network 4 Youth. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.31.2013	Our students are swimming in over $1 trillion of debt. The Senate bill provides them a lifeline. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) supported a bill that would reduce the loan interest rate for students, while saving them billions of dollars. This bipartisan Senate bill passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 392 to 31. “In May of this year, House Republicans passed legislation that would make college more expensive for our students,” said Rep. Moore. “On July 1, student loan interest rates doubled from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent. During this time of economic uncertainty, I am pleased that my colleagues were able to come to a student loan compromise.” The Senate bill interest rates for undergraduate loans would be tied to the 10-year Treasury borrowing rate, plus 2.05 percentage points. The interest rate for this coming academic year would be 3.86 percent. “Though this bill is not perfect, in that interest rates vary based on the market with caps at 8.25 percent, it is an improvement over the current high rates. Our students are swimming in over $1 trillion of debt. The Senate bill provides them a lifeline.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.25.2013	After experiencing the emotional and physical trauma of sexual assault, victims should never have to fight for custodial and parental rights with their abusers. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Moore) (202) 225- 4572orMara Sloan (Wasserman Schultz) 202-225-0318 Washington, D.C. – Each year, thousands of women become pregnant as a result of sexual assault. Shockingly, too often these rape survivors must endure further trauma when the rapist seeks custody or visitation with the survivor’s child. On behalf of those survivors and their children, U.S. Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Tom Marino (R-PA), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), David Joyce (R-OH), Gwen Moore (D-WI), and Marcia Fudge (D-OH) filed the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act. This bipartisan legislation encourages states to pass laws that allow women to petition for the termination of parental rights based on clear and convincing evidence that a child was conceived through rape. The bill would provide incentives to states with protective statutes through a grant program that provides additional federal funding through two programs authorized in the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) – the STOP Violence Against Women Formula Grant and the Sexual Assault Services Program. Only six states currently have laws that afford women comprehensive access to the legal options they need in order to avoid custody battles with their rapists. That’s why members of Congress have introduced federal legislation in an effort to encourage other states to follow suit. Earlier this year in May, a real-life example of the need for this kind of legislation was in the national news - the Cleveland kidnapping-rape case where a man is charged with kidnapping and raping three women for over a decade. One of the women had a child while imprisoned, and just two months after the mother escaped, the accused perpetrator requested visitation with the daughter who was conceived through rape. On Thursday, July 25, Reps. Wasserman Schultz, Marino, Meehan and Moore hosted a news conference to talk about why this bill is so important and what it would do to help women. Joining them Thursday was Shauna Prewitt, who became pregnant after she was raped as a student at the University of Chicago. She was shocked when her attacker sought custody of the baby. Since then, she has earned a law degree and become an outspoken advocate for providing survivors the legal tools they need to protect themselves and their children. “No mother, and especially no survivor, should ever have to endure such a nightmare,” said Rep. Wasserman Schultz. “While we cannot undo the harm already caused, we can give women the legal tools they need in order to protect themselves from additional abuse, coercion, manipulation, and intimidation. Stories like Shauna’s remind us why bills like this rise above partisan politics. This is about doing what’s right to protect women across America, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this bill passed.” "I'm a former prosecutor. I've defended rape victims and I've put their attackers behind bars," said Rep. Meehan. “Amazingly, in some states rapists have parental rights to their child. Victims then must relive their experiences in prolonged custody disputes, and they're forced to interact with their attackers on a regular basis to arrange visitation. This isn't just painful for the victim -- it's unsafe for the child, as well. Federal policy can and should encourage states to protect rape victims and their children." “I was proud to stand with my colleagues and support the Rape Survivor Child Custody Act,” said Rep. Moore. “After experiencing the emotional and physical trauma of sexual assault, victims should never have to fight for custodial and parental rights with their abusers. I am proud that Wisconsin is one of six states to currently help women avoid horrific custody battles with their attackers if there is clear and convincing evidence of rape. However, this survivor support must be extended nationwide. I urge my colleagues to stand up for mothers and support this commonsense legislation.” “The case of Amanda Berry giving birth while being held captive and raped for over a decade occurred in my district but the need for this legislation goes beyond one case,” said Rep. Fudge. “I am determined to do whatever I can to ensure that rape survivors throughout Ohio and in every other state are not further traumatized by the justice system. This sensible, bipartisan measure encourages all states to develop strong remedies to help mothers avoid painful custody battles with their rapists. They and their children deserve that protection.” The bill has growing support from national organizations, including the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network (RAINN), National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, National Taskforce to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Alliance to End Sexual Violence, National Network to End Domestic Violence, National Domestic Violence/Dating Violence Hotline, National Resource Center on Domestic Violence, National Council of Jewish Women, National Organization of Sisters of Color Ending Sexual Violence, Jewish Women International, Asian & Pacific Islander Institute on Domestic Violence, Casa de Esperanza, Victims Rights Law Center. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.24.2013	Instead of working across party lines, Republican Members on the Financial Services Committee – led by Chairman Hensarling – insisted on pursuing a hyper partisan housing reform bill that has no chance of becoming law. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined her Democratic colleagues to stand up for American families by opposing H.R. 2767, the PATH (to Nowhere) Act. The bill passed the Financial Services Committee this morning on a party line vote. “Instead of working across party lines, Republican Members on the Financial Services Committee – led by Chairman Hensarling – insisted on pursuing a hyper-partisan housing reform bill that has no chance of becoming law. This radical bill would push the dream of home ownership further and further out of reach for Wisconsin families. The so-called PATH Act is, in actuality, the PATH to Nowhere. “I am pleased that Chairman Hensarling has decided to tackle housing reform; however H.R. 2767 would eliminate a person’s ability to obtain 15 and 30-year mortgages – the cornerstone of our housing finance system. “I stand with Democrats in our resolve to improve our housing market. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to put partisanship aside and work to strengthen this vital aspect of our economy in a bipartisan manner.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.22.2013	Today I joined my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support Wisconsin businesses and the people they serve. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined her Wisconsin colleagues in supporting House passage of H.R. 2353. Congresswoman Moore is one of the original cosponsors of the legislation that would maintain the status quo and allow the current truck weight limits to remain in effect on Highway 41, between Milwaukee and Green Bay, when that route is added to the federal Interstate system. Wisconsin, through state statute and by permit, allows some commodities to be transported at weights higher than federal Interstate weight limits – primarily for agriculture, milk, timber, scrap metal and garbage. Under the legislation, only those trucks currently authorized to operate on Highway 41 would be allowed to continue to operate after the Interstate designation occurs. “Today I joined my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support Wisconsin businesses and the people they serve,” said Rep. Moore. “Transportation and economic development go hand in hand. Allowing the continued use of this highway to serve the many businesses and manufacturers that are conveniently located along this route supports Wisconsin commerce and development. In addition, this legislation helps to keep these vehicles from having to use local roads that were not designed to accommodate them. I am proud my colleagues acted in the best interests of Wisconsin commerce and safety.” H.R. 2353 passed the House of Representatives on a voice vote. Companion legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Tammy Baldwin and Ron Johnson. Supporters of this legislation include the following: Wisconsin Department of Transportation, Wisconsin Counties Association, Wisconsin Towns Association and the Wisconsin State Patrol. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.19.2013	H.R. 5, a rewrite of former President Bush's •No Child Left Behind,' turns its back on our nation's education system and the children it serves. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed legislation that disadvantages students. H.R. 5, the GOP’s “Letting Students Down Act,” passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 221 to 207. “H.R. 5, a rewrite of former President Bush’s ‘No Child Left Behind,’ turns its back on our nation’s education system and the children it serves. The bill does nothing to replace the devastating education sequester cuts and reduces critical funding by over $1 billion next year alone. In addition, this bill dissolves school accountability that would otherwise help ensure struggling students, including children with disabilities, are receiving adequate assistance. Among other damaging provisions, this bill does not take appropriate steps to help guarantee our students are receiving equal access to quality education. It also fails to support our nation’s teachers. “In its original form, H.R. 5 could have reduced funding for our high-needs schools. Our students’ socio-economic status should never determine the quality of their education. I am pleased that my amendment, cosponsored with Representatives Frederica Wilson (FL-24) and Danny Davis (Il-7), was passed by voice vote in the House. Our amendment works to ensure that funding levels for our high-needs schools remains consistent. “Even with our amendment, however, I could not support the ‘Letting Students Down Act,’ as it embodies its namesake. As we improve our education system, let us empower our students, not pass legislation that leaves them further and further behind.” To see Rep. Moore defending low-income students on the House floor, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.17.2013	After 38 repeal attempts, the GOP is playing a game with themselves and losing. It's past time they join Democrats and work in favor of the American people. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) spoke out against legislation that would delay the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “I am amazed today at the audacity and persistence of my Republican colleagues who are voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act for the 38th time. The continued challenge to this important piece of legislation is not only a waste of congressional time and resources but an affront to millions of Americans in need of affordable health care. “This Republican legislation is absurd. The Obama administration has already delayed the employer mandate, and the so-called ‘Fairness for American Families Act’ is anything but fair. Delays to coverage for individuals will further harm those families who are struggling to gain access to care by increasing their premiums. “The American people want job creation and a living wage, not political posturing. Republicans must accept that the ACA will not be repealed beyond the House and abandon what are indeed costly attempts to destroy this reform. “After 38 repeal attempts, the GOP is playing a game with themselves and losing. It’s past time they join Democrats and work in favor of the American people.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.12.2013	I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass a GSE reform bill that improves the sustainability of our housing finance system. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in response to the Government Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) reform bill introduced by Representative Jeb Hensarling (TX-05). “I am pleased that Chairman Hensarling has released a proposal to reform our housing market. However, in its current form, this bill would radically change our housing market and endanger the fixed 15 and 30-year mortgages, upon which working Americans rely. “We must reach a bipartisan solution that bolsters the essential pieces of our housing market and works to ensure that home loans are available to credit worthy borrowers. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass a GSE reform bill that improves the sustainability of our housing finance system.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.11.2013	As Members of Congress, it is our obligation to support a farm bill that helps provide food assistance to the hungry, not empty their plates. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) stood with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and other Members of the Democratic Caucus to stand up for our nation’s hungry and oppose the latest farm bill legislation rushed to the floor by House Republicans. The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 216 to 208. “For years, Congress has used the farm bill to assist both our nation’s farmers and those in need of food assistance. I oppose the effort in this bill to eliminate the link between the billions of dollars our nation will provide to subsidize farmers and millions of food insecure and hungry Americans. Yet, in an effort to pass this bill, that is just what House Republicans did when they stripped out the nutrition provisions. “The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) is a vital lifeline for over 47 million people across our nation, including over 800,000 in our state. In fact, nearly half of all Wisconsin SNAP beneficiaries are children. “However, SNAP was not the only program eliminated from the FARRM bill today. Programs to help seniors buy fresh fruits and vegetables as well as provide surplus agricultural commodities to food banks and pantries were also left on the cutting room floor. Milwaukee’s Hunger Task Force knows well how important these programs are for Wisconsinites of all demographics. “Today my Republican colleagues acted callously by ignoring the needs of the working poor and their families. I will continue to speak out against such shameful and transparent attempts to use the farm bill to pit the poor and hungry against our nation’s farmers. As Members of Congress, it is our obligation to support a farm bill that helps provide food assistance to the hungry, not empty their plates. ” Click here to watch Rep. Moore’s floor statements standing up for SNAP. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.27.2013	This bill embodies our American values in the way we extend a hand to lift millions from the shadows of our society. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, the Senate passed comprehensive immigration reform legislation by a vote of 68-32. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement: “Today the Senate passed the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act (S. 744), giving hope to approximately 11 million immigrants across our nation. The Senate has moved our country one step closer to realizing a comprehensive immigration reform law. This bill, spearheaded by the Senate’s so-called ‘Gang of 8,’ represents a truly bipartisan compromise. “Millions have come to America in search of a better life for themselves and their families. Since our nation’s inception, immigrants have played an essential role in shaping our history, culture, and diversity. The Senate’s commonsense immigration reform bill secures our borders and provides a pathway to citizenship for those who seek it. Moreover, it embodies our American values in the way we extend a hand to lift millions from the shadows of our society. “While we recognize this great legislative achievement, we must remember that our work has just begun. We must not play politics with the livelihoods of millions of people. I urge Republican leadership in the House to fully consider the Senate bill, because our family, friends, and neighbors deserve a vote.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.26.2013	As humans, we are all equal under the law. Whom a person loves should never change that. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) unconstitutional. The Court also decided it had no standing to rule on the constitutionality of California’s Proposition 8. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement, supporting lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) couples. “Today’s decisions mark a significant moment in American history,” said Rep. Moore. “The Supreme Court sent a simple but powerful message to same-sex couples and families across this nation – that love is love. For too long, DOMA and Proposition 8 have represented the voices of LGBTQ prejudice. Today those voices were invalidated.” Under the DOMA decision, federal benefits will now be extended to married same-sex couples. The judgment on Proposition 8 effectively returns marriage equality to the state of California. “Same-sex marriage does not in any way undermine or degrade heterosexual marriage. The symbolic nature of this union is strengthened by every individual who commits in love, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. “I am proud the Supreme Court took a positive step towards equality. Yet, in celebrating this victory for marriage equality, we must not be complacent in our fight to recognize all same-sex marriages. As humans, we are all equal under the law. Whom a person loves should never change that.” To read the full opinion of the Defense of Marriage Act, please click here. To read the full opinion of Proposition 8, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.25.2013	I implore my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to act forcefully and expeditiously to protect the most fundamental aspect of our democracy. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, the Supreme Court of the United States struck down a key provision in the Voting Rights Act of 1965 by a vote of 5 to 4. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement, expressing her deep disappointment with the ruling. “The Voting Rights Act is one of the greatest civil rights victories in American history,” said Rep. Moore. “This Act is still vitally needed to ward off discriminatory polling practices, evidenced by biased voter identification laws disallowed in Texas and South Carolina last year.” The Voting Rights Act (VRA) is historic legislation that was first implemented to prevent voting discrimination. Section 5 of the VRA requires certain jurisdictions with a history of racial discrimination to gain preclearance before altering voting laws. “This Act is a profound symbol of our commitment to equality. Moreover, this Act has a history of success – bringing millions of disenfranchised Americans out of democracy’s shadows.” Today the Supreme Court struck down Section 4 of the VRA – the formula used to determine which areas of our nation must comply with Section 5, thereby nullifying Section 5 until Congress can implement a new formula. “In 2006, both Democrats and Republicans overwhelmingly voted to reauthorize the Voting Rights Act, reaffirming the law’s importance and relevance. In the same manner, we must come together again. I implore my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to act forcefully and expeditiously to protect the most fundamental aspect of our democracy.” To read the full opinion, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.20.2013	Moving forward, we must extend a hand and work to lift Americans out of poverty, not clench our fists. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) stood in opposition to the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARRM) Act that failed the House of Representatives with a vote of 234 to 195. “Today I proudly voted in opposition to the FARRM bill. It is my hope that we will soon pass a farm bill that sensibly reforms our nation’s farm subsidies. At the same time, we must not consider a bill that detrimentally and disproportionately impacts the poor. I am deeply disappointed that my Republican colleagues chose to vote in blind favor of their ideology and in opposition to millions of otherwise food insecure Americans, during amendment votes. “SNAP benefits are a vital lifeline for over 47 million people across our nation. The final FARRM bill would slash these benefits by $20.5 billion—negatively affecting more than 50,000 people in Wisconsin and nearly 2 million people across America. In 2012, almost half of all SNAP recipients in Wisconsin were children. “House Republicans made this bad situation worse in their ideologically driven thirst to further punish the poor and pass amendments to add unnecessary drug testing and onerous work requirements to SNAP beneficiaries. “This legislation is not an issue of working to reserve SNAP benefits for those who ‘deserve’ them. It’s about criminalizing poverty, humiliating millions of people and removing food assistance from the working poor, hungry children and seniors. “Moving forward, we must extend a hand and work to lift Americans out of poverty, not clench our fists.” Click here to watch my floor statements defending SNAP beneficiaries. Click here to read my joint Milwaukee Journal Sentinel article on the importance of preserving SNAP. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.19.2013	Juneteenth is an opportunity for us to reflect on where we have been as a country and envision a stronger future. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined the nation in celebrating Juneteenth. Juneteenth is the oldest national celebration commemorating the end of slavery in the United States. “Juneteenth is an opportunity for us to reflect on where we have been as a country and envision a stronger future,” said Rep. Moore. “The unveiling of the Frederick Douglass statue today in the U.S. Capitol is a powerful reminder of the immense racial progress we have made as a nation and the great African American heroes that brought us thus far on our journey towards equality for all people. “I am proud that in my hometown, Milwaukee residents have continued this Juneteenth celebration for over 30 years. Wisconsinites across my state recognize today as the official ‘Day of Jubilee.’ “As we recommit ourselves to racial justice, I urge each American to learn more about Juneteenth and its profound impact on American history.” Juneteenth has been observed every year since 1865. Click here to learn more about this important holiday. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.18.2013	A woman's health care decisions are between a woman and her doctor, not a woman and politicians. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed H.R. 1797, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act that would prohibit abortions after 20 weeks of gestation. She released this statement: “This bill is not about the health of a fetus, but about denying a woman the ability to determine her own health choices. This bill is a direct assault on the reproductive rights of women. “Again and again, we see Congress removing women’s autonomy over their own bodies. One of the most troubling aspects of this attack is that it is fueled by men. A woman’s health care decisions are between a woman and her doctor, not a woman and politicians. “After public outcry, Republicans allowed for an exemption to their bill for rape and incest but only for those who have reported these crimes to law enforcement. This narrow exception is inexcusable and victimizes survivors of sexual abuse. Moreover, this bill aims to partially nullify the constitutionality of Roe v Wade. “At its core, H.R. 1797 gives men the ability to invade the private medical decisions of women and denies women the dignity and respect they deserve. I am vehemently opposed to this bill and am deeply disappointed that my Republican colleagues stood behind their party lines to pass it.” Click here to watch Rep. Moore speak out against H.R. 1797 on the House floor. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.14.2013	I could not support the National Defense Authorization Act. We must prioritize our national security and do so responsibly. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed the final FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) or H.R. 1960, which sets defense funding priorities. She released this statement: “In its entirety, the NDAA could take us backwards by breaking through budgetary caps set in the Budget Control Act and failing to make the tough fiscal choices required by every other domestic federal department and agency. This bill further ties the President’s hands in moving forward on efforts to responsibly reduce our nuclear arsenal, including infringing on his ability to implement the New START Treaty. In addition, the NDAA does nothing to reform a host of controversial terrorism policies, such as indefinite detention of U.S. citizens by the military. Our defense legislation must reflect the need to better balance our values and rights in the war against terrorists. “I was also troubled by the continued funding for the war in Afghanistan. In these stringent budgetary times, fiscally disciplined House Republican leaders found the funds to boost war spending to $86 billion, $5 billion above what the President requested. “With regard to reducing sexual assault in the military, the bill did take some helpful steps to address the prevalence of military sexual assaults. As we work to reduce the prevalence of these crimes, however, it is important to fully consider a variety of bold options including removing prosecution power from the chain of command. I am deeply disappointed that even though the House Rules Committee allowed votes on 170 amendments to this bill, it blocked proponents of the chain of command amendment from getting a vote on the floor of the House. “For these reasons, among others, I could not support the National Defense Authorization Act. We must prioritize our national security and do so responsibly.” The President has issued a veto threat on the National Defense Authorization Act. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.13.2013	Helping to ensure that women's voices are not lost has remained one of my strongest passions and responsibilities. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Moore) 202-225-4572Anton Becke (Duckworth) 202-225-3711Sara Lonardo (DeLauro) 202-225-3661 Washington, DC – Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Congresswoman Tammy Duckworth (IL-08) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released the following statement in recognition of their selection as honorees at tomorrow’s National Partnership for Women and Families Luncheon. “I want to thank everyone at the National Partnership for going the extra mile every day for working families, and also for honoring me,” said Rep. DeLauro. “We have worked hard and worked together, and come a long way because of it. But we still have so much to do to help make this economy work for families. Paid leave, passing the Paycheck Fairness Act, and expanding access to child care and the child tax credit must be our next steps. If we keep working together, as partners, I know we can continue to make the lives of women less economically insecure.” “I want to thank the National Partnership for Women and Families for promoting fairness in the workplace, reproductive health and access to quality affordable health care,” said Rep. Duckworth. “Our country and our families will never reach their full potential without equal pay and without an expanded Family and Medical Leave Act. We will never reach full equality until all Americans have access to quality health care and all women have access to reproductive health. I look forward to continuing to work with the National Partnership to achieve these goals.” “I am humbled to receive this honor from such an outstanding organization advocating on behalf of women,” said Rep. Moore. “There are women in my district and across our nation fighting each day for their workplace rights, access to quality health care and better policies for working families. Throughout this Congress and last, we have seen countless attempts to silence the needs of women. Helping to ensure that our voices are not lost has remained one of my strongest passions and responsibilities.” At the luncheon, National Partnership for Women & Families President Debra L. Ness will revisit the organization’s efforts toward improving the professional and personal lives of women. To learn more about this event and past honorees please visit their website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.10.2013	I am extremely pleased that this funding has been awarded to an organization that is doing so much to support women in the Milwaukee area. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Labor announced the release of approximately $1.5 million in grant funding to the Center for Self-Sufficiency as part of the Strategies Targeting Characteristics Common to Female Ex-Offenders grant program. The Center for Self-Sufficiency, was awarded nearly $1.5 million to help provide women with adult education services and opportunities for professional and self-development. The Center will focus its efforts on assisting ex-offenders as they reenter the community. “I am extremely pleased that this funding has been awarded to an organization that is doing so much to support women in the Milwaukee area,” said Rep. Moore. “It is critical that we continue creating opportunities for all women to succeed in our local communities and that we do our best in Washington to stand behind this initiative.” To learn more about the Center for Self-Sufficiency, please visit their website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.06.2013	We must come together before July 1 to support our students, not double their burden. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (Rep. Moore) 202-225- 4572Kathleen Hohl (MATC) 414-297-6208 Milwaukee, WI – On Monday, May 10, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will join Milwaukee Area Technical College (MATC) students to oppose doubling the subsidized Stafford student loan interest rate from 3.4 to 6.8 percent. If Congress fails to act, the rate will automatically double on July 1. “In our recovering economy, it is absurd that we are even debating whether or not to keep student loan interest rates low,” said Rep. Moore. “Student loan debt has reached over $1 trillion, impacting more than 7 million students. We must come together before July 1 to support our students, not double their burden.” For more information about this press conference, please call Rep. Moore’s Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-4572 or Kathleen Hohl with MATC at (414) 297-6208 (office), (414) 235-7105 (cell), hohlk@matc.edu. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) Milwaukee Area Technical College Students AFT Local 212 WHAT: Press Conference in Opposition to Doubling Student Loan Interest Rate WHEN: Monday, June 10, 2013 10:30 AM – 11:30 AM WHERE: Milwaukee Area Technical College 700 W. State Street S Building Atrium Milwaukee, WI 53233 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.04.2013	Rep. Moore opposes Governor Walker's budget that would cause hardship to vulnerable populations. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, as debate continues in the Wisconsin State Legislature surrounding state budget negotiations, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in support of BadgerCare: “Once again, all eyes are on the elected leaders of the State of Wisconsin, who are currently making critical decisions about whether or not to contract or expand existing BadgerCare coverage. “Governor Walker has proposed a budget that would change BadgerCare eligibility and deny coverage to 89,000 Wisconsin parents as well as 6,000 adults without dependent children. I fear for these individuals—for their health and their economic security. I am also concerned for the fate of the Family Planning Only program, and for the pregnant women currently receiving BadgerCare access to prenatal and post-natal care who would lose these benefits under the Walker proposal. Not even Wisconsin’s children could escape the Governor’s BadgerCare chopping block. Under his proposed policy change, 29,000 children would lose future coverage. “Today, I’m joining the statewide ‘Day of Action,’ where thousands will raise their voices in support of affordable health care access for our low-income populations, including thousands of women and children. The time has come for lawmakers to do all they can to improve the Governor’s proposals and preserve access to care for Wisconsinites. For the sake of our vulnerable communities, hospitals, health care providers, and our state’s health and economy—I implore the Wisconsin legislature to protect and expand current BadgerCare coverage.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.03.2013	LGBT Pride Month is a time to celebrate the progress we have made towards achieving equality for all Americans regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month, which is celebrated each year in June. "LGBT Pride Month is a time to celebrate the progress we have made towards achieving equality for all Americans regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. "I was honored last Congress to join the NOH8 campaign in support of marriage equality, reaffirming my belief that love is love. Earlier this year, I fought tirelessly to help reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) that is inclusive of all victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, including LGBT victims. Standing behind President Obama during the VAWA signing is not a moment I will soon forget. "This month, I am also proud to celebrate my Wisconsin friends and LGBT Members of Congress – Senator Tammy Baldwin, the first openly gay United States Senator and Representative Mark Pocan, whose husband became the first LGBT partner to receive a Congressional spousal ID. "Since the Stonewall riots in June 1969, we have made great progress towards securing equal rights and opportunities for all Americans. While we recognize that there is more work to be done, I encourage all people to celebrate the achievements of the LGBT community and the diversity they bring to our great nation." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.27.2013	This Memorial Day, as we renew our commitment to our military and veterans, may we never forget the sacrifice of those who have served. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Memorial Day, observed on Monday, May 27, 2013. "Every Memorial Day, we join together as a nation to honor the many brave men and women in uniform who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect our democracy and way of life. Our gratitude to them is strong and resolute. “May we also recognize the families of those lost on the battlefield. Our thoughts and prayers remain with them and with all loved ones who mourn the loss of a fallen soldier. Let us honor the memory of those who paid the ultimate price for our freedom by continuing to support our active duty troops and veterans. “This Memorial Day, as we renew our commitment to our military and veterans, may we never forget the sacrifice of those who have served.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.23.2013	As Members of Congress, we must do all we can to reduce the financial burden of receiving a higher education both now and in the future. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted against a bill that would make college more expensive for students. “Today House Republicans passed a bill that would increase the student loan financial burden for students and their parents. With an amount reaching over $1.1 trillion dollars, student debt in our nation has reached a crisis level. The Republican bill would exacerbate this problem, adding additional debt to our students. If this bill became law, students would pay nearly $4 billion more on student loan interest over the next ten years, according to the Congressional Budget Office. “In reality, the GOP bill is a worse option for students than if no legislation was passed at all. If Congress fails to act, the interest rate for federal Stafford subsidized loans will double from 3.4 to 6.8 percent starting July 1. “However, failing to act is not an option. As Members of Congress, we must do all we can to reduce the financial burden of receiving a higher education both now and in the future.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.17.2013	I refuse to support legislation that seeks to harm those negatively impacted by the financial crisis. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted against the SEC Regulatory Accountability Act, which passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 235-161. “This so-called ‘Cost-Benefit’ Bill is nothing more than another political gimmick. This bill requires an overly stringent and arbitrary accounting of ‘costs’ to industry and works to dismantle Wall Street regulations. In the wake of the numerous bank abuses that nearly caused a second Great Depression, why on earth do Republicans want to make it easier for Wall Street to evade regulations? “Once you read past the Republican rhetoric, it is easy to determine that this bill benefits Wall Street and costs taxpayers. I refuse to support legislation that seeks to harm those negatively impacted by the financial crisis.” Watch Rep. Moore on the House floor opposing the “Cost-Benefit” Bill here. Read Rep. Moore’s Huffington Post Blog: GOP "Cost-Benefit" Bill Benefits Wall Street and Costs Americans. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.16.2013	Here they go again. House Republicans are doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted against legislation that would repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and leave millions uninsured. “Here they go again. House Republicans are doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. In their 37th attempt, Republicans voted to repeal our landmark health care reform law. In fact, according to a recent New York Times article, House Republicans have spent just under one-fifth of their total time voting to repeal the Affordable Care Act in some fashion since 2011. “Instead of working to build our economy and create jobs for the working class, the GOP has wasted over $50 million on 36 repeal votes. Today they voted again, in order to appease their newer Members who hadn’t yet had an opportunity to vote against the ACA. “While Republicans play politics, American families wait for Congress to address the real issues facing this nation. Democrats are committed to improving our economy, working to reduce the deficit and finding a solution to the devastating sequester cuts. “My colleagues across the aisle must stop working for themselves and against the American people. Enough is enough.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.09.2013	My colleagues on the other side of the aisle need to reevaluate their priorities and work to prevent self-inflicted damage to our economy. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed the Pay China First Act which passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 221 to 207. “Instead of appointing budget conferees and working towards a responsible means to reduce our deficit, Republicans continue to put the fiscal security of American families in danger. Alone, this Act would create uncertainty in the eyes of our creditors. This plan for default is nothing more than a Republican ploy to put the full faith and credit of our nation at risk. “If Republican politics bring our nation to default on its loans, the Pay China First Act would essentially pay bondholders from China and other foreign countries before our troops, veterans, small businesses that provide goods and services to the government, and physicians and hospitals that treat Medicare patients. “My colleagues on the other side of the aisle need to reevaluate their priorities and work to prevent self-inflicted damage to our economy.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.08.2013	This legislation, introduced with a charming title, could have a potentially devastating impact on working women and families. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) opposed the so-called Working Families Flexibility Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 223 to 204. “Once again, I find myself riding an endless political merry-go-round operated by House Republicans. This bill is just the latest manufactured means to putting the economic security of working Americans at risk. “The Working Families Flexibility Act would allow employers to schedule their workers for overtime hours without having to provide them with overtime pay. Instead, employers would promise their workers future compensatory time. However, given that this ‘comp time’ could only be used at the employer’s discretion, those days off may never materialize. “This legislation, introduced with a charming title, could have a potentially devastating impact on working women and families. House Republicans are proudly claiming this legislation will give employees the flexibility they need to manage their work schedules and time off. These supporters particularly note the ‘benefits’ for working women included in this bill. Perhaps in this mythical world, many employees don’t mind having less income, no real flexibility and longer work schedules. Unfortunately, this Republican reality does not coincide with actual reality. In practice, this bill would mean more work and less pay for working mothers and families. “In our recovering economy, the last thing that American families need is reduced pay and less control over their work hours. As Members of Congress, it is our obligation to do all we can to improve the economic security of our constituents. It’s way past time my colleagues on the other side of the aisle followed suit.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.05.2013	As we reflect upon the rich heritage of Mexican-Americans, it is incumbent upon us to embrace the diversity that has helped enrich our nation. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Cinco de Mayo: “Cinco de Mayo is an opportunity to reflect on the sacrifice and determination of a Mexican militia and their victory over better-equipped foreign invaders. Today, not only do we celebrate this courageous feat during the Battle of Puebla, but we also recognize the many contributions Mexican-Americans have made to American history and culture. “As we reflect upon the rich heritage of Mexican-Americans, it is incumbent upon us to embrace the diversity that has helped enrich our nation. “We have an opportunity to effect real change in the lives of our brothers, sisters, parents, neighbors and friends and pass comprehensive immigration reform that will unite families and reaffirm our foundation as a nation of immigrants. “This Cinco de Mayo, let us celebrate the many contributions of the Mexican culture. “Viva Cinco de Mayo, viva la comunidad Latina!” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.03.2013	I am proud to celebrate Jewish Americans and the positive impact they have had on our nation, Wisconsin and Milwaukee. share: f t Contact: Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month. "Jewish American Heritage Month is a time to celebrate Jewish American culture, history and the varied ways this community has enhanced our way of life. "The Jewish American story is one of strength and perseverance. They have risen above a past stained with hardship to a present characterized by opportunity. I am proud to celebrate Jewish Americans and the positive impact they have had on our nation, Wisconsin and Milwaukee. “Golda Meir, a Milwaukee resident, was the fourth prime minister of Israel. She and many other Jewish Americans have contributed to the economic, social and political life of our nation. “This month and beyond, I encourage all people to learn more about Jewish American heritage.” Jewish American Heritage Month has been officially recognized since 2006 and is celebrated each year during the month of May. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.02.2013	I am honored to join with all Americans to celebrate the history and culture of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community and the many contributions they have made to improve our nation. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. “I am honored to join with all Americans to celebrate the history and culture of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community and the many contributions they have made to improve our nation. “Wisconsin is home to the third largest Hmong population in the nation, the majority of whom reside in Milwaukee. I am proud to recognize this community and their positive impact on the Milwaukee area. “Those in the AAPI community have made an indelible mark on American history and will play a critical role in shaping our future. From music to science, architecture to athletics and a host of fields in between, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have helped to mold our American identify. While we celebrate the AAPI community, let us also recognize the sacrifices they have made and the prejudice they overcame as they sought equal rights and opportunity. “As we commemorate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I encourage everyone to learn more about the rich heritage of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.” Asian Pacific American Heritage Month was officially recognized in 1992 and is celebrated each year during the month of May. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.01.2013	This month and always, I urge everyone to do all they can to raise awareness about this disorder. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (Moore) (202) 225- 4572Elizabeth Murphy (Roybal-Allard) (202) 225-1766Ashley Schapitl (Capps) (202) 225-3601 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) and Congresswoman Lois Capps (CA-24) released this statement in recognition of the first ever National Preeclampsia Awareness Month designation. “Despite our growing awareness of maternal health complications in the developing world, we still have much to do here at home to improve understanding of maternal health risks, recognizing warning signs, and identifying ways to prevent these threats to the health of mothers and their children. Right here in the United States we still have women dying every day from pregnancy-related complications and our prematurity rates are still much too high. Raising awareness of preeclampsia among women, their families, and their medical providers is an important step to improving birth outcomes for our nation’s babies and mothers,” said Congresswoman Capps. “Thank you to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for her leadership in obtaining this important designation.” “Designating May as Preeclampsia Awareness Month is a good step toward stemming the incidence of this potentially fatal condition impacting mothers and their newborns. By educating women, their families and their providers to recognize the warning signs and stressing the importance of seeking prenatal care, it is possible to prevent unnecessary deaths of mothers and their children,” said Congresswoman Roybal-Allard. “I am so proud to have played an active role in helping to designate May as National Preeclampsia Awareness Month,” said Rep. Moore. “As the immediate past Democratic Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues, I am committed to improving maternal and infant health. Preeclampsia is a very real disorder that affects thousands of mothers and infants in America and around the globe. Unfortunately, there is a serious lack of awareness surrounding preeclampsia and the danger it poses to maternal and infant health. This month and always, I urge everyone to do all they can to raise awareness about this disorder.” Preeclampsia is a life-threatening disorder that occurs during pregnancy or in the postpartum period, fatally impacting thousands of mothers and infants each year. To learn more about preeclampsia visit the Preeclampsia Foundation website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.01.2013	I am confident that his vast knowledge, commitment and desire to improve the lives of American families will prove essential in his task of effecting positive change within our broken housing market. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), released this statement after President Obama nominated Congressman Mel Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), the regulatory agency responsible for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac oversight. "I have had the honor of serving with Mel on the Financial Services Committee for many years. During his tenure, he has established himself as a tenacious leader and a champion for families facing or at risk of foreclosure. He has worked across party lines to advocate for affordable housing and against predatory lending, achieving real results for the American people. “As a true public servant, Mel has remained relentless in his fight to protect consumers. His experience on the Financial Services Committee and his economic expertise were essential components in passing the landmark Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. "I am confident that his vast knowledge, commitment and desire to improve the lives of American families will prove essential in his task of effecting positive change within our broken housing market. “I urge the Senate to swiftly confirm Congressman Watt so that he may continue to serve the American people in his new role as Director of the FHFA.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.29.2013	As a Member of Congress, I am committed to helping ensure financial opportunity transcends economic borders. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund, announced the release of $140 million to support the New Markets Tax Credit Program. By providing tax credits, the New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC) Program aims to improve the economic outlook for low-income areas by creating or increasing investments in businesses and real estate operations located in underserved communities. “Since its creation in 2000 by Congress, the NMTC Program has proved to be an essential resource for low-income communities,” said Rep. Moore. “As a Member of Congress, I am committed to helping ensure financial opportunity transcends economic borders.” The following organizations will altogether receive $140 million in NMTC Program funding: First-Ring Industrial Redevelopment Enterprise, Inc., Greater Wisconsin Opportunities Fund, Inc., Milwaukee Economic Development Corporation and PNC Community Partners, Inc. “It is my hope that this grant funding will foster innovative business ideas and projects to spur economic growth in the Milwaukee area.” For more information and specific allocation amounts, please visit the CDFI Fund website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.23.2013	As budget discussions continue, it is increasingly important to advocate for the arts and support programs that bring music to our youth and literature to our community. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the National Endowment for the Arts announced the release of $20,000 in grant funding to support literature related activities and the Milwaukee Youth Symphony Orchestra, Inc. Woodland Pattern, Inc. was awarded $10,000 to help support readings, workshops, retreats and outreach activities as well as an effort to expose Native American writers to Milwaukee audiences. Milwaukee Youth Symphony Orchestra, Inc. was awarded $10,000 to support underserved youth through a string training and orchestral program. “I am proud that, once again, Milwaukee was selected to receive this grant funding,” said Rep. Moore. “As budget discussions continue, it is increasingly important to advocate for the arts and support programs that bring music to our youth and literature to our community.” To learn more about the National Endowment for the Arts, please visit their website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.17.2013	Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with 35 of her colleagues sent a letter to House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture Chairman Robert Aderholt and Ranking Member Sam Farr urging them to provide $35 million for grants through the Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act of 2010. Moore authored legislation in 2010 to create this grant program and successfully fought to have this program included in the Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act. Congress appropriated $10 million for the program last year and President Obama has included a request for $35 million in the FY 2014 budget he recently sent to Congress. “Our children are our most precious resource,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “We cannot expect them to excel in school and be the best that they can be if they begin the school day with an empty stomach. A nutritious breakfast is crucial to their success and ultimately our success as a country. Providing funding to help schools create or expand participation in school breakfast including through innovative programs like breakfast in the classroom will mean more kids at their desks ready to learn in the morning. It is my hope that the committee takes a serious look at this request and works to secure resources for this very important program.” The letter reads as follows: April 17, 2013 The Honorable Robert Aderholt The Honorable Sam FarrChairman Ranking MemberCommittee on Appropriations Committee on AppropriationsSubcommittee on Agriculture Subcommittee on AgricultureU.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Aderholt and Ranking Member Farr, We write to urge the subcommittee to provide $35 million in the FY 2014 Department of Agriculture Appropriations bill for grants authorized under section 105 of the Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-296) to help reduce the number of children who start the school day on an empty stomach. Supporting these competitive grants will help local educational agencies and schools purchase the equipment needed to serve healthier meals, improve food safety, establish, maintain, or expand their school breakfast program, and increase access to the morning meal. The science is clear about hunger and the adverse impact it has on children’s development and learning. Connecting kids to programs like school breakfast helps ensure they get the healthy food they need to learn and grow and remain attentive through the school day, thus improving the overall school and classroom environment. When we invest in ensuring access to healthy breakfast and lunches through the child nutrition programs, we support the considerable investment in education made by federal, state, and local officials while ensuring that the individual child has the best opportunity to learn. Strong research evidence supports that children who eat breakfast at school have fewer absences and better academic performance and behavior. The Healthy and Hunger Free Kids Act made a number of changes to strengthen these programs including the school breakfast program. This includes creating a competitive grant program to help schools establish, maintain, or expand their school breakfast program. These grants would be prioritized for schools where at least 75 percent of the students are eligible for free or reduced price school lunches. Unfortunately, three years later, Congress did not fund these grants until just recently in the FY 2013 Department of Agriculture Appropriations bill (included as part of H.R. 933 funding the federal government for the rest of FY 2013) despite calls from the Administration including in its FY 2013 budget request and school breakfast advocates. This delay deprived schools of a powerful new tool to help reduce hunger among students. According to the Food Research and Action Center’s (FRAC)School Breakfast Scorecard, in the 2011-2012 school, only about half (50.4 for every 100) of all low-income students who participated in school lunch also participated in school breakfast. If all states were able to reach a standard of having at least 70 low-income children eating school breakfast for every 100 low-income children eating school lunch, an additional 4.1 million low-income children would eat school breakfast according to FRAC. Increasing school breakfast participation helps schools and school districts achieve educational and health goals for children, improves student achievement and attendance and reduce food insecurity. By funding these grants, we can allow schools to choose the best options and practices that they believe will work to increase the number of children who start the day with a healthy breakfast. Sincerely, s/Gwen MooreMember of Congress s/ Yvette D. ClarkeMember of Congress s/Frederica S. WilsonMember of Congress s/ Maxine WatersMember of Congress s/John ConyersMember of Congress s/ David CicillineMember of Congress s/Jan SchakowskyMember of Congress s/ Tony CardenasMember of Congress s/Charles RangelMember of Congress s/ Elijah CummingsMember of Congress s/ Andre Carson Member of Congress s/ Chaka FattahMember of Congress s/Carol Shea-PorterMember of Congress s/ Corrine BrownMember of Congress s/Dan KildeeMember of Congress s/ Gloria Negrete McLeodMember of Congress s/Theodore E. DeutchMember of Congress s/ Terri SewellMember of Congress s/Dave LoebsackMember of Congress s/ Jared HuffmanMember of Congress s/Steve CohenMember of Congress s/ Marc VeaseyMember of Congress s/Raul Grijalva Member of Congress s/ Judy ChuMember of Congress s/Ann KirkpatrickMember of Congress s/Carolyn McCarthy Member of Congress s/Loretta Sanchez Member of Congress s/Lois Capps Member of Congress s/Dina Titus Member of Congress s/William Pascrell Member of Congress s/C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger Member of Congress s/Melvin L. Watt Member of Congress s/Joaquin Castro Member of Congress s/Matt Cartwright Member of Congress s/Keith Ellison Member of Congress s/Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Member of Congress ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.26.2013	It is my sincere hope that the Supreme Court comes to see throughout these arguments the unconstitutionality of both California's Prop. 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act and rule in favor of inclusion and not exclusion. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement as the Supreme Court hears oral arguments in the case of United States v. Windsor, a challenge to the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), and Hollingsworth v. Perry, a challenge to California’s Proposition 8: “Over the coming days and weeks, the members of our Supreme Court have an awesome opportunity to carry out the will of the people and faithfully interpret our Constitution. Public opinion on gay marriage continues to shift with a record 58 percent of Americans believing gay marriage should be legal. “As we continue to work towards a more perfect union, we must insure that our union includes all people, no matter their gender, race, ethnicity – or as in these cases – sexual orientation. It is my sincere hope that the Supreme Court comes to see throughout these arguments the unconstitutionality of both California’s Prop. 8 and the Defense of Marriage Act and rule in favor of inclusion and not exclusion. “Therefore I urge the Supreme Court to ‘do the right thing’ and strike down these discriminatory laws.” Earlier this month, Rep. Moore signed onto an amicus brief along with 212 Members of Congress arguing the unconstitutionality of Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.25.2013	I fervently hope LMC lives up to its promise to end the dumping and I strongly urge the EPA to enforce the tenets set forth in the Clean Water Act and other key federal environmental laws so that we can preserve our natural resources for posterity. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in response to the announcement by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) allowing Lake Michigan Carferry Service, Inc. (LMC) of Ludington, Michigan – operators of the SS Badger - to continue the discharge of coal ash into Lake Michigan through the end of the 2014 sailing season. “I am deeply disappointed that the EPA has once again given the SS Badger an extension to continue dumping harmful coal ash debris in our Great Lakes through the 2014 operating season. The SS Badger previously promised some five years ago that it would end the dumping of coal ash into our Great Lakes, yet here we are watching ‘Groundhog Day’ play out again allowing them to continue to carry out this harmful practice on our environment. “As their previous permit was expiring this past December, the SS Badger was no closer to stopping the harmful pollution. LMC did however find time to fund legislative efforts to attempt to enshrine its dumping exemption into law for perpetuity. Fortunately, Congress wisely rejected these efforts. “The Great Lakes are an irreplaceable, national environmental and economic treasure that must be protected. That is why I am troubled by the EPA’s decision to continue to give special dispensation to some at the expense of the protection of Lake Michigan and our entire Great Lake ecosystem. “I fervently hope LMC lives up to its promise to end the dumping and I strongly urge the EPA to enforce the tenets set forth in the Clean Water Act and other key federal environmental laws so that we can preserve our natural resources for posterity.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.21.2013	As I've said before, this budget has me feeling like I'm Alice in Wonderland. I've fallen down the rabbit hole and landed in the middle of a mad tea party. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after voting against the House Republican budget for the 2014 fiscal year: “As I’ve said before, this budget has me feeling like I’m Alice in Wonderland. I’ve fallen down the rabbit hole and landed in the middle of a mad tea party. This bill is clearly class warfare against the poor and middle class. It slashes programs that seek to help the most vulnerable of our society and goes to great lengths to line the pockets of the rich. “As a Member of the House Budget Committee, it amazes me that Mr. Ryan and the Republicans so vehemently ignored the will of the people who resoundingly rejected this blueprint when they elected President Obama last year. “With their umpteenth attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, their hatchet job on domestic spending and their fundamental changes to the structure of Medicare and Medicaid which would virtually end these programs as we know them – this Republican budget would be comedy if it weren’t such a tragedy for the American people. “Spending cuts alone will not boost our economy. We didn’t cut our way out of the Great Depression and we won’t be able to cut our way out of The Great Recession. In order to rebuild our economy we must have balance. Most importantly, we must invest in the American people – especially our most vulnerable populations – if we want to see our economy move forward.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.21.2013	My legislation would enhance benefits and help us ensure that Social Security does what it was intended to do – ensure that all Americans are not at risk of living in poverty. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced the Social Security Enhancement and Protection Act. This legislation seeks to improve Social Security coverage for women, people of color, and low-income Americans and improve revenue for the program. “There is broad agreement that we need to take steps to improve the fiscal outlook for Social Security,” said Rep. Moore. “However, in addition to extending the solvency of the system, we must improve it so it works better for vulnerable populations, including women, people of color, and low-income people. My legislation would enhance benefits and help us ensure that Social Security does what it was intended to do – ensure that all Americans are not at risk of living in poverty.” Congresswoman Moore’s draft bill would improve Social Security coverage/benefits for women, people of color, and low-income people in three key ways: • Updating the Special Minimum Benefit to 100 percent of poverty: People who have had low-wage jobs for their whole lives are more financially at risk when they reach retirement. Rep. Moore’s legislation would increase the Special Minimum Benefit to pay 100 percent of the poverty threshold for those who have worked 30 years under Social Security. • Increasing benefits 20 years after becoming eligible for retirement. People who live beyond the age of 85 are more likely to be financially vulnerable, even with Social Security. Rep. Moore’s legislation would provide additional security by increasing benefits for all beneficiaries 20 years after retirement by a uniform amount equal to 5 percent of the average retired worker benefit in the prior year. • Reinstating the student benefit. Social Security benefits are paid to children whose working parent has died, become disabled, or retired. Currently, these benefits are paid until age 18—but from 1965 to 1981, students were eligible to receive those benefits until age 22 if they were enrolled in college or vocational schools. The Congresswoman’s bill would restore the student benefit for children of deceased and disabled workers up to age 22. Congresswoman Moore’s legislation would pay for these reforms by eliminating the cap on Social Security payroll contribution and gradually raising the Social Security contribution rate for employers and employees each by 1/20 of 1 percent a year or approximately .50 cents a week. These revenue proposals would also allow us to extend the solvency of Social Security well beyond 2033, the year in which Trust Fund reserve depletion is expected under current law, to 2068—an additional 35 years. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.19.2013	The benefits of same day registration are apparent. I am pleased that this referendum will be able to be voted on by the people of Milwaukee so that they can let our local, state and federal officials know where they stand on this very important issue. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox, (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett in supporting an advisory referendum that would allow citizens to vote in support of preserving same-day voter registration. The Milwaukee Common Council voted 11-4 to place the referendum on the Milwaukee April 2013 election ballot. She released this statement: “Since the founding of this country, the evolution of the right to vote has been the cornerstone of our efforts to form a more perfect union. As a right of all citizens, we must continue to strive to ensure that all people have access to the ballot. Same day registration has been key to ensuring that access. Wisconsin, along with Maine and Minnesota, have been at the forefront of this effort since the 1970’s. That’s why I am baffled by recent efforts by some to even consider eliminating this very crucial service to the people of Wisconsin that only helps to ensure that they are able to exercise their constitutional right to vote. “The benefits of same day registration are apparent. States that have same day registration have increased voter turnout – with many of those states consistently leading the nation in voter participation. Additionally, those voters are more interested and engaged in their elections. “Same day registration also remedies inaccurate voter rolls making it easier for voters who may have recently moved to not fall victim to bureaucratic errors. This is also particularly important for citizens who are geographically mobile, lower-income citizens, young voters and voters of color. It also greatly reduces the need for provisional balloting. “Voting is a fundamental right of every American citizen. Not only is voting historically relevant, it is critically important to effecting change in our communities. Our efforts should always be toward expanding access to the vote, not restricting it. I am pleased that this referendum will be able to be voted on by the people of Milwaukee so that they can let our local, state and federal officials know where they stand on this very important issue.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.12.2013	As a Member of the House Budget Committee, it amazes me that my colleague Paul Ryan and his GOP counterparts have once again presented a budget that is neither fair nor balanced and is clearly class warfare against the poor and middle class. Simply put, Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement on the proposed budget crafted by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and House Republicans for the 2014 fiscal year: “As a Member of the House Budget Committee, it amazes me that my colleague Paul Ryan and his GOP counterparts have once again presented a budget that is neither fair nor balanced and is clearly class warfare against the poor and middle class. Simply put, it ‘robs Peter to pay Paul’ and in this case ‘Peter’ is the poor and ‘Paul’ is the rich. “Despite the American people rejecting this same blueprint during the Presidential election, Republicans are resorting to the same tactics. They have again proposed the fairytale of repealing the Affordable Care Act and are cutting domestic spending to the bone. “Most egregious in this budget are the fundamental changes to the structure of Medicare and Medicaid which would virtually end these programs as we know them. This budget would slice into the social safety net, taking aim not only at discretionary spending, but at mandatory spending on Medicare and Medicaid. “Once again, the Ryan budget proposes block-granting Medicaid, ending its entitlement status. This would not only cut funding for insurance coverage for low-income children and adults, it would cut funding for nursing home care for poor seniors, many of whom rely on Medicaid to cover their long-term care expenses. Their budget would also do the same for food stamps and a number of other programs that are crucial to lifting Americans out of poverty. “Additionally, in another Bush era throwback, the Republican budget proposes once again to ‘voucherize’ Medicare. The bottom line is that this plan would shift costs to seniors, jeopardize their care, and erode traditional Medicare. “A budget is a moral document that reflects the priorities in which a country will invest their resources. Sadly, the Republicans have once again shown that they are blatantly willing to rob from the poor to give to the rich, turning the current wealth gap into a gaping chasm. “As we debate this budget, I hope that more sensible heads will prevail and we will be able to pass a fairer budget that doesn’t seek to crush the least of these in our country.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.12.2013	I hope to build upon my first listening session and engage with even more of my constituents about federal issues and programs that are important to them. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, March 16, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will join constituents in a discussion about important federal legislative issues, events in Congress and constituent concerns. “I am so glad to be hosting this next round of ‘Congressional Cafés,’” said Rep. Moore. “I hope to build upon my first listening session and engage with even more of my constituents about federal issues and programs that are important to them.” The upcoming “Congressional Café” sessions will be held for the Villages of Brown Deer and Shorewood. For more information about these events, please call the Milwaukee office at 414-297-1140. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) County Supervisor Theo Lipscomb, Sr. Village President Carl Krueger WHAT: Congressional Café for the Village of Brown Deer WHEN: Saturday, March 16, 2013 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Brown Deer Library 5600 W. Bradley Road Brown Deer, WI 53223 *** WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) State Representative Sandy Pasch Village President Guy Johnson Supervisor Gerry Broderick WHAT: Congressional Café for the Village of Shorewood WHEN: Saturday, March 16, 2013 1:00 PM – 2:00 PM WHERE: Shorewood Library 3940 N. Murray Ave. Shorewood, WI 53211 ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.11.2013	Our overall goal is to keep families together, not tear them apart. This legislation is a positive step towards sustaining the American family. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) re-introduced a bill that will take important steps towards ensuring that parents and legal guardians are afforded legal representation in all stages of a child welfare case. There are over 400,000 kids in the foster care system in the United States, many because their parents or guardians are accused of abuse or neglect. Professionals and parents agree that removing a child from his or her family can be traumatic and foster care, in many cases, does a poor job of preparing children for adulthood. For this reason, child welfare law is structured, through federal law incentives, to limit removal of children from their home unless absolutely necessary for the child’s safety, and promotes their reunification with their family. New research powerfully supports these goals by showing that children often have better life outcomes when efforts are directed towards keeping a family together. “A vast majority of current federal dollars are spent towards the administrative costs of running the system and the overall cost of foster care, yet very little funding is designated towards ensuring that parents - especially low-income and minorities - have quality legal representation throughout all stages of a child welfare case,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “High quality counsel helps parents access necessary services, advocate for increased visitation, negotiate reasonable and realistic case plans, and provide parents with someone who is on their side. It is for these reasons, that I have introduced this legislation to ensure that parents are afforded quality legal representation across all stages of child welfare proceedings.” One of the most fundamental arenas for ensuring the safety, stability and permanence for abused and neglected children is through our nation’s court systems. Recently reauthorized under the Promoting Safe and Stable Families program (IV-B of the Social Security Act), The Court Improvement Program (CIP) has been instrumental in improving child welfare outcomes in state courts. The CIP has helped reduce the caseload delay, and also worked to stimulate fresh approaches to improving the court outcomes of children and their families. “This legislation builds upon the successful framework of the CIP, adding an additional component for parental legal representation,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Child outcomes improve and courts function more effectively when all parties have quality legal representation. This legislation gives parents, alongside officials and judges, a voice when the best interests of their child are at stake. “Our overall goal is to keep families together, not tear them apart. This legislation is a positive step towards sustaining the American family." ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.07.2013	The reauthorization of VAWA has been a long time coming, but the majority of Congress finally came together and did the right thing on behalf of women across this country. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4) will attend the signing of the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization (VAWA) which will take place today at the Department of Interior. After more than 500 days without reauthorization, the House of Representatives finally passed the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act following the failure of the partisan and discriminatory proposal put forth by House Republicans. The Senate’s version, which passed the House by a vote 286-138, extends the law’s crucial protections to LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims, provides for more rape kits as well as a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases, strengthens criminal anti-trafficking statutes, provides for temporary housing for victims and addresses domestic violence on American college campuses. President Obama will sign the VAWA Reauthorization today. “I am so pleased to join President Obama and so many of my colleagues for this historic signing," said Rep. Gwen Moore. "The reauthorization of VAWA has been a long time coming, but the majority of Congress finally came together and did the right thing on behalf of women across this country. This legislation will help all women – including Native, LGBT and immigrant women – come out of the shadows of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and human trafficking. “I would like to especially thank Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers for their support in passing this legislation. Additionally, I would like to thank all of the staff in both the House and Senate and in particular, my Legislative Director Steffany Stern, for all of their hard work. “Domestic violence is a cancer that pervades our communities and our homes. No woman should ever feel afraid in her own neighborhood or home. No woman should ever have to endure the physical and psychological pain of domestic violence. Yet, too many women continue to live in fear. Today is a glorious day for women everywhere.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.04.2013	As we continue to explore ways to improve our educational system, let us use this week to recognize the contributions of school social workers and the vital role they play in helping our children reach their fullest potential. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced a resolution that would designate March 3 – 9 as “School Social Work Week.” She released the following statement: “This week, I am so proud to introduce this resolution to recognize the many contributions of school social workers. While I recognize the incredibly important role teachers play in a student’s success, school social workers are especially equipped to mentor students dealing with poverty, disability, discrimination or other issues in their personal lives. Often these issues can become a barrier to learning unless handled properly. By working to strengthen positive social and emotional development in our children, school social workers improve the success rate of children coming from a disadvantaged background, lending a much-needed hand in our efforts to create a more equal society. “Unfortunately, there are often not enough school social workers to meet the needs of at-risk youth. The 1:250 maximum recommended ratio of social workers to students is exceeded in almost all school districts with some experiencing ratios as high as 1:21,000. That’s why I’ve introduced the School Social Workers Improving Student Success (SSWISS) Act (H.R. 563). If passed, the SWISS Act would create a grant program that helps high-need schools hire additional social workers who would be tasked with targeting their services toward the highest need students. “As we continue to explore ways to improve our educational system, let us use this week to recognize the contributions of school social workers and the vital role they play in helping our children reach their fullest potential.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.01.2013	In the spirit of all the women sojourners that came before us, I call upon all Americans to become mentors to young women and help cultivate our next generation of leaders. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Women’s History Month. “With more women than ever before serving in the 113th U.S. Congress, Women’s History Month can be a time to reflect on the women who inspired so many of us to join public service, and on those who have shattered glass ceilings in other fields such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Whether they were fighting for equal rights and equal pay in the workplace, marching for voting rights or serving as the only woman in their field, this month we pause to pay tribute to the many heroines of women’s history. “My presence in Congress today, and the future election of more women, is only possible because of the many dynamic women who helped lead the way. From Sojourner Truth whose speech ‘Ain’t I a Woman’ declared women’s equality, to Wisconsin bred Golda Meir the first woman to serve as Prime Minister of Israel, to Shirley Chisholm the first African American woman elected to Congress - all of these women paved a pathway for future women leaders. “In recognition of this year’s theme, ‘Women Inspiring Innovation Through Imagination,’ we honor American women who have contributed to advancements in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Despite being nearly half of the workforce, women make up less than a quarter of Americans in STEM jobs. But we cannot expect our daughters to aspire to enter these fields, which pay 33 percent more than non-STEM jobs, unless we provide role models. We must teach about Sally Ride, so the young girl dreaming of spaceflight knows it is not impossible for her. We must honor Shirley Ann Jackson, so African American girls know that they too can become Presidents of renowned Universities. And we must promote those who are still blazing trails like former EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, so women and girls have a role model whose career they can follow. “In the spirit of all the women sojourners that came before us, I call upon all Americans to become mentors to young women and help cultivate our next generation of leaders.” Women’s History Month is celebrated in the United States every year during the month of March. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.28.2013	Gwen Moore hosts first district listening session in Glendale. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, March 2, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will join constituents in a discussion about important federal legislative issues, events in Congress and constituent concerns. “As a Member of Congress, my number one responsibility is to my constituents,” said Rep. Moore. “I am excited for this opportunity to speak one-on-one with my constituents and engage in meaningful conversation regarding the federal issues important to them.” This first “Congressional Café” session will be held for the Village of Bayside, Village of Fox Point and City of Glendale communities. For more information about this event, please call the Milwaukee office at 414-297-1140. Information on future “Congressional Café” sessions will be forthcoming. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) State Representative Mandela Barnes County Supervisor Theo Lipscomb WHAT: Congressional Café WHEN: Saturday, March 2, 2013 10:45 AM – 11:45 AM WHERE: NorthShore Library 6800 N. Port Washington Road Glendale, WI 53217 ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.28.2013	For over 500 days women have been waiting and praying for this day to come. Today, the majority of this body stood up for all women – including Native, LGBT and immigrant women. We answered their clarion call and declared that we will protect the vi share: f t Contact: Drew Hammill, 202-226-7616Nicole Y. Williams (Moore), 202-225-4572Andrew Schreiber (Conyers), 202-225-6906 House Votes Down Weak House GOP VAWA, Passes Bipartisan Senate Version of VAWA that Protects LGBT, Native American, Immigrant, Campus and Sex Trafficking Victims Washington, D.C. – Today, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, and Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI), John Conyers (D-MI), applauded the passage of the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) following the failure of the partisan and discriminatory proposal put forth this week by House Republicans. With House Democrats pushing for a stronger, more comprehensive reauthorization, the Senate’s version passed the House by a vote of 286-138, extending the law’s crucial protections to LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims, providing for more rape kits as well as a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases, strengthening criminal anti-trafficking statutes, providing for temporary housing for victims, and addressing domestic violence on American college campuses. “The Violence Against Women Act has long ensured that no woman would ever be forced to suffer in silence in the face of domestic violence and abuse. Democrats were committed to keeping that promise – that’s why we led the charge to enact the strong, bipartisan Senate bill and secure a victory for all women, no matter their background or community,” said Leader Pelosi. “Today, a bipartisan majority of the House joined the Senate in reaffirming our pledge to America’s women and families, strengthening this landmark law, extending protection to LGBT Americans, Native Americans, and immigrants, and preserving the security of all women.” “For over 500 days women have been waiting and praying for this day to come,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Today, the majority of this body stood up for all women – including Native, LGBT and immigrant women. We answered their clarion call and declared that we will protect the victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and human trafficking. I want to thank Democratic Leader Pelosi for her staunch leadership and support in the passage of this legislation as well as House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers and so many of my colleagues who stood with us through this fight. Today is truly a victory for women everywhere.” “I am pleased that the House of Representatives voted to protect all victims of domestic violence by passing the strong bill already passed by the Senate to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act,” said Rep. John Conyers, Jr. “Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has safeguarded victims of domestic violence by providing funding to help law enforcement investigate crimes of domestic violence and prosecute those who criminally victimize women. In addition, VAWA established the Office on Violence Against Women within the Department of Justice, and created community violence prevention programs. It is critical that we continue these programs and, with this subsequent reauthorization, those safeguards will be afforded to the LGBT, Native American, and immigrant communities as well. While there were significant stumbling blocks in reauthorizing VAWA last Congress, I am proud that Congress was able to come together today for a cause that should never be partisan: protecting all victims of domestic violence.” # # #
02.27.2013	The statue of Rosa Parks not only represents a great American hero, but signifies a battle for equality and a turning point in our American story. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in honor of the Rosa Parks statue unveiling in the United States Capitol. “I am proud to stand with President Obama and my colleagues from both sides of the aisle as we celebrate the life and legacy of civil rights leader Rosa Parks. Today’s ceremony is a powerful moment in American history that transcends our political and ideological differences. The statue of Rosa Parks not only represents a great American hero, but signifies a battle for equality and a turning point in our American story. “As we continue this story, may we harness the spirit of Rosa Parks and recommit ourselves to justice and the fight against inequality.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.27.2013	I urge the Supreme Court to uphold this historic, bipartisan and fundamental part of our great nation. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement as the Supreme Court begins arguments on Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. “Today the Supreme Court will consider one of the most important aspects of our democracy, the right for many Americans to have equal and fair access to the election process. The Voting Rights Act is deeply rooted in the height of our country’s civil rights movements, and Section 5 remains a powerful and necessary tool to curb discriminatory election practices by covered states and localities. In this past election cycle, we have seen a return to the same old discriminatory practices, with over 37 states introducing voting changes since 2012, that could negatively impact voters. Section 5 has kept several of these pernicious laws off the books, and the record for its continued need is abundantly clear. “I associate myself with the comments of my Wisconsin colleague Rep. Sensenbrenner, sponsor of the 2006 reauthorization and then-chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, when he said, ‘the Voting Rights Act must continue to exist.’ I was proud to have voted for that reauthorization, which passed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 390-33 in the House and 98-0 in the Senate. “With the expansion of civil rights over the past 50 years, we have an obligation as a country to fight against efforts that seek to take us backwards. I urge the Supreme Court to uphold this historic, bipartisan and fundamental part of our great nation.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.26.2013	Today I joined Representatives Conyers and Slaughter to introduce the real VAWA – the Senate VAWA. We have the support; we are waiting on Republican leadership to bring our VAWA bill to the floor for a vote. share: f t Press Contacts: Nikki Williams (Moore) (216) 409-7667 Andrew Schreiber (Conyers) (202) 225-6906Eric Walker (Slaughter) (202) 225-2888 WASHINGTON – Today, Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI), John Conyers (D-MI), and Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), introduced the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Act as an amendment to fix the partisan and discriminatory proposal put forth this week by House Republicans. The Senate’s version, which passed by a strong bipartisan vote of 78-22, extends the law’s crucial protections to LGBT, Native American and immigrant victims, provides for more rape kits as well as a national registry of forensic evidence from sexual assault cases, strengthens criminal anti-trafficking statutes, provides for temporary housing for victims and addresses domestic violence on American college campuses. Moore, Conyers and Slaughter urged members to support the bipartisan, inclusive Senate version of VAWA, instead of the partisan Republican proposal, which was written behind closed doors and waters down crucial protections against domestic violence. “These games must end,” said Rep. Moore. “Republicans have introduced their version of VAWA, under the Senate bill number and the Senate title. I guess they thought no one would notice their bill fails to adequately protect LGBT, Native American, campus and sex trafficking victims and actually weakens current law. Their bill title may say VAWA, but it is far from the Senate bill that works to protect all victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking and human trafficking and passed with a strong bipartisan vote. Today I joined Representatives Conyers and Slaughter to introduce the real VAWA – the Senate VAWA. We have the support; we are waiting on Republican leadership to bring our VAWA bill to the floor for a vote.” “The Senate has passed a strong bipartisan bill that contains critical protections for all victims of domestic violence,” said Rep. Conyers, Ranking Member on the House Judiciary Committee. “The House, and victims of domestic violence deserve an up or down vote on this critical legislation. But instead the House Majority is playing politics and pushing through a partisan version of VAWA that they know is dead on arrival in the Senate. It’s time for the House Republicans to join their colleagues in the Senate and stand up for all victims.” “We’ve heard no explanation for why the Republican Majority is opposed to protecting the lives and persons of anyone in the United States from domestic violence,” said Rep. Slaughter, Ranking Member on the House Rules Committee. “As an original author of the Violence Against Women Act, it never crossed my mind that this law would ever be used as a vehicle for discrimination. The bipartisan Senate proposal deserves an up-or-down vote in the House, but unfortunately, we anticipate another closed rule on a discriminatory, partisan version of this landmark law, which has been responsible for reducing domestic violence incidents by over 60 percent since its passage.” ***Below, please find a fact sheet prepared by the House Judiciary Committee Democratic Staff comparing the bipartisan, inclusive Senate version of VAWA with the partisan, discriminatory House Republican version of VAWA. HOUSE REPUBLICAN VAWA WEAKENS S. 47Partisan Substitute Deletes Critical Protections for Victims of Domestic Violence This week, the House will consider a substitute version of S. 47, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. While the bill has been noticed as S. 47, the version before the House is significantly different than the legislation that passed the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 78 to 22 and with the support of all Democrats, all female Senators, and a majority of Republicans. The Senate passed bill incorporates years of analysis of the problem, and solutions proposed by law enforcement, victims, and victim service providers. The House bill does not. Rather than allow the House to take an up or down vote on the bipartisan Senate passed bill, the House Republican Majority is pushing through legislation that will pick and choose which victims of domestic violence are deserving of protection. The proposed House VAWA substitute is a Washington-based solution created without participation from people who work with victims in the field and without any input from House Democrats. Notably, the House substitute omits protections for LGBT victims by removing all references to “gender identity” and “sexual orientation,” despite clear evidence revealing that domestic and sexual violence affects LGBT victims at equal or greater levels than the rest of the population. In addition, the House VAWA substitute significantly weakens the protections for Native American women. Rather than give tribes the authority they need to protect Indian women, the House substitute limits tribes to charging an abuser with misdemeanors punishable by no more than one year in prison, even if the abuser has committed rape, a vicious assault, or another serious violent crime. The Republican substitute for VAWA also limits important protection for immigrant victims. Among other problems, the legislation fails to include a Senate provision making “stalking” one of the crimes that would allow a victim to get a U visa. Unlike the Senate bill, the House bill also jeopardizes foreign fiancés by omitting critical protections and enforcement mechanisms designed to properly regulate international marriage brokers. Apart from these problems, the House Republican substitute of VAWA makes campuses less safe by eliminating important provisions in S. 47 that strengthened programs that help combat and prevent violent sexual crimes on college campuses. The House Republican substitute eliminates the SAFER Act, which would provide law enforcement with the critical resources it needs to ensure that perpetrators of sexual violence are brought to justice. The Republican substitute removes the bipartisan reauthorization of the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act which provides essential protections for victims, as well as tools and resources for victims service providers and law enforcement. Due to these concerns, the House Republican substitute is opposed by groups including the National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence Against Women, the National Congress of American Indians, the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, and members of the Senate. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.25.2013	This proposal by the Wisconsin State Legislature to enact these draconian cuts is misguided and will ultimately render the local County Board incapable of providing necessary services for the people of Milwaukee County. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in opposition to LRB 1340 a proposal from the Wisconsin State Legislature that would enact a 66 percent reduction in the Milwaukee County Board’s budget eliminating funds available for current staff, supervisor salaries and oversight responsibilities and duties. She released the following statement. "This proposal is not one that the citizens have asked for but rather one that the business community determined was necessary. Many in the community perceive this as either a takeover or a power grab that will ultimately disenfranchise the everyday person. “The County Board has and continues to be a great forum for civic engagement, helping to groom our future public servants. Our own U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin was once a County Board Supervisor. The County Board is a government body that truly reflects the breadth of diversity within the state of Wisconsin – especially for women and minorities. The many changes delineated in this bill in addition to the reduction of funds will limit opportunities and access for all who seek to be active and engaged in their community. It reduces the Board’s ability to help constituents resolve their problems at the County level. “Additionally, the proposed cut to the Milwaukee County Board will also make maintaining a system of checks and balances at the County government nearly impossible and would destroy the very concept of local control. “This proposal by the Wisconsin State Legislature to enact these draconian cuts is misguided and will ultimately render the local County Board incapable of providing necessary services for the people of Milwaukee County. The Milwaukee County Board is more than capable of determining how to reduce the cost of local government and increase efficiency - and we should let them do it.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.22.2013	The saying goes, •Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.' This is the second time House Republicans have trotted out this VAWA Trojan Horse, only to try and gut critical provisions from the real VAWA... share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (Moore) – 202-225-4572Andrew Schreiber (Conyers) – 202-225-6906 (WASHINGTON) – Today, the Republican leadership announced they will bring their version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization to the House Floor next week. As opposed to S. 47, which passed the Senate with a bipartisan vote of 78 to 22 last week, the House Republican version of VAWA omits protections for the LGBT, Native women, and immigrant communities. It also excludes provisions that combat sex trafficking, and that would have helped law enforcement address the backlog in DNA evidence kits. The GOP version is being brought to the House Floor in the complete absence of committee action and without the consultation of House Democrats. Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Wis.) issued this statement following the introduction of the bill: Rep. John Conyers, Jr: “The House Republican version of VAWA is evidence that the Majority continues to pick and choose which victims of domestic violence are deserving of protection. The Senate has passed a strong bipartisan bill that contains critical protections for all victims of domestic violence, but House Republicans are reverting back to partisan politics by pushing through a bill that will not pass the Senate. We should be seeking ways to expand and improve upon the historic Violence Against Women Act, not limit its ability to protect innocent victims.” Rep. Gwen Moore: “The saying goes, ‘Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.’ This is the second time House Republicans have trotted out this VAWA Trojan Horse, only to try and gut critical provisions from the real VAWA that House Democrats proposed and a large bipartisan majority of the Senate passed. House Republicans have once again introduced a partisan bill that refuses to acknowledge the needs of all victims of domestic violence, human trafficking and stalking. There are too many women waiting on vital domestic violence services. It is time for House Republicans to end this charade and allow a vote on the comprehensive VAWA that passed the Senate earlier this month.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.15.2013	It is common sense to continue to provide the hundreds of thousands of Wisconsinites who rely on FoodShare each month with simple access to the food assistance they need. But apparently, common sense is not so common. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following Governor Scott Walker’s proposal to reinstate work requirements for FoodShare participants. FoodShare, Wisconsin’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, provides hundreds of thousands of Wisconsinites with the food assistance they need each month. “It is no secret that Wisconsin, along with the rest of the nation, is facing economic hardship. The unemployment rate in my hometown of Milwaukee is at 9.6 percent. It is common sense that when unemployment is high, the number of those who rely on FoodShare increases. It is also common sense to continue to provide the hundreds of thousands of Wisconsinites who rely on FoodShare each month with simple access to the food assistance they need. But apparently, common sense is not so common. “Once again our governor has put his ideology before the needs of the people. Instead of focusing on job creation to reduce the number of those on the FoodShare program, his proposed policy change could increase the number of hungry adults in Wisconsin as well as put additional burdens on food pantries, churches and other groups, such as Hunger Task Force, that provide assistance to those facing food insecurity. Governor Walker seems to be willing to dedicate $17 million a year in state funding for this questionable training, even though it won’t result in savings in the FoodShare program. These valuable state funds could be used for so many other priorities—such as job creation and mass transit. “Since securing employment after finishing unpaid job training is not guaranteed, participation in this program has been historically low resulting in lost FoodShare benefits. The Hunger Task Force estimates that the state would lose $82.3 million annually in federal benefits if the mandatory work requirements were implemented. In addition, this loss in benefits would ultimately take $147.4 million away from our local economy, according to a Department of Agriculture estimate. “As leaders we are often faced with difficult situations as we attempt to balance our responsibilities. However, we must always act in the best interest of the people whom we represent. With this sentiment in mind, I urge Governor Walker to rethink this recommendation in his state budget request.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.15.2013	This sort of common sense legislation will help us strike a fair balance between Wall Street and •Main Street' in relation to those advising institutions on municipal bonds. share: f t Contact:Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (Moore)(202) 225-4572Kara Hauck (Stivers)(202) 225-2015 Washington, D.C. - Congressman Steve Stivers (R –Columbus) today introduced the Municipal Advisor Oversight Improvement Act; a bipartisan bill that clarifies the Dodd-Frank Act’s definition for “municipal advisors” to allow for more appropriate oversight and implementation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stivers introduced the bill with Representative Gwen Moore (D-WI). “Everyone acknowledges that the Dodd-Frank definition for municipal advisors was too broad,” Stivers said. “The original language that defines municipal advisors includes people who are already regulated somewhere else, like volunteers on boards, bank tellers, attorneys, accountants, and other professionals. Washington needs to fix the mistake that Washington made, because it affects the rest of the country.” Municipal advisors were established in a Dodd-Frank Act provision as a new class of regulated persons who advise state and local governments on financial matters, including bond issuance, investment of bond proceeds, and financial derivatives usage. The Municipal Advisor Oversight Improvement Act would clarify the Dodd-Frank Act’s municipal advisor definition to prevent financial market participants who do not advise municipalities from facing improper, duplicative, and onerous regulations under securities, banking, commodities, and other laws. “This sort of common sense legislation will help us strike a fair balance between Wall Street and ‘Main Street’ in relation to those advising institutions on municipal bonds,” said Rep. Moore. “I look forward to working with Rep. Stivers on this important legislation.” In the 112th Congress, similar legislation was introduced as H.R. 2827 by Representatives Robert Dold (R-IL) and Gwen Moore (D-WI). The bill unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives on September 19, 2012, but was never taken up in the Senate. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.13.2013	Government is supposed to help, not hurt people. Instead of reducing the number of uninsured by building on the Medicaid and CHIP coverage, the number of uninsured in Wisconsin may go up. It just doesn't make any sense. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) spoke out in opposition to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker’s decision not to pursue expansion of the state’s BadgerCare program under the new Affordable Care Act (ACA). She released this statement: “It seems our Governor Scott Walker is determined to consistently be on the wrong side of history. He has once again allowed his Republican ideologies to interfere with what is best for the people of the state of Wisconsin. “His decision to not allow Wisconsin to participate in the federal Medicaid expansion rejects $4.38 billion in federal funding that could help poor and working class Wisconsinites who desperately need these health benefits. This decision will increase low-income families’ out-of-pocket health care costs, pricing needed care out of reach for some. “His decision to leave this money on the table is baffling. Especially when a number of his fellow Republican governors including Jan Brewer of Arizona, John Kasich of Ohio and Jack Dalrymple of North Dakota have chosen to accept the Medicaid expansion funds even though they have stated that they are ideologically opposed to the ACA. “Government is supposed to help, not hurt people. Instead of reducing the number of uninsured by building on the Medicaid and CHIP coverage, the number of uninsured in Wisconsin may go up. It just doesn’t make any sense. We can’t implore people to pull themselves up by their bootstraps if they don’t even have boots. During these tough economic times we need to be figuring out how to increase health services to the less fortunate, not strip them away.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.12.2013	Tonight the President set an aggressive agenda for America. His plan to refocus our efforts on bringing about solid economic growth for all Americans through manufacturing, infrastructure, clean and renewable energy, skills training for American workers, For Immediate ReleaseFebruary 12, 2013 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address to Congress. “Tonight the President set an aggressive agenda for America. His plan to refocus our efforts on bringing about solid economic growth for all Americans through manufacturing, infrastructure, clean and renewable energy, skills training for American workers, and a renewed commitment to education are critical to this country moving forward. “With the recent success of the manufacturing sector adding nearly 500,000 jobs over the past three years, I was glad that he is committed to continuing to strengthen this sector of our economy. Manufacturing is an important part of the economy in Wisconsin, and it will be important to invest in this industry to ensure that we have more good jobs here at home and are able to compete in the global economy. “His plans to invest in clean energy and decrease our dependence on foreign oil will be necessary to help our businesses compete as well as reducing energy costs for American families. It is my hope that we will allow for greater research and development in this area to spur greater investment in clean and renewable energy. “I was particularly pleased with the President’s announcement of the return of 34,000 U.S. troops from Afghanistan within a year. It is not as quick a timeline as I would like but shows his commitment to keep his promise to formally end this war by 2014. I am eager to hear more in the coming days about when the rest of our troops will be home for good and will continue to work with my colleagues to bring all our troops home soon and safely so we can focus on the many other pressing priorities facing our nation that he outlined in his speech. “His ‘back to basics’ approach to education will be critical in preparing our young people with not only the academic prowess but the real world skills needed to compete for the jobs of today and tomorrow. I believe greater investments in program such as TRIO would go a long way in fulfilling this vision for our educational system. “Additionally, I applaud and support the President’s plan to prevent and reduce gun violence in our communities. Unfortunately, my home state of Wisconsin has seen a rash of gun violence over the past year, including a shooting at a local area Sikh Temple which left seven people dead and a shooting in Brookfield that took the lives of three members of our community. We cannot turn a blind eye to the rampant gun violence that plagues our nation. We must implement common sense strategies to build safer neighborhoods for everyone. “While some may dismiss the President’s message as simple fodder for liberals, I believe that the message he gave this evening was –as the young people say – ‘real talk.’ We are facing tough times, and the only way that our country will thrive is with bold new ideas. With the looming sequester and a fragilely recovering economy, Congress must put aside their petty differences and work to enact concrete solutions that will help all Americans. We cannot cut our way to solvency on the backs of the poor and working class as Republicans would suggest. We must create an even playing field that provides greater opportunity for all. “It’s time to barbecue or mildew; and I for one am ready to go to work on behalf of the American people. So let’s get to work.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.12.2013	VAWA was needed yesterday. It is needed even more today. Women cannot wait any longer. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (Moore 202-225- 4572)Andrew Schreiber (Conyers 202-225-6906) Washington, D.C. – Today, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (MI-13) and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the Senate passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), S. 47, by a vote of 78 to 22. This Senate-passed bill is almost identical to the bill introduced in January by Reps. Moore and Conyers (H.R. 11). VAWA supporters in the House look forward to retaining the Senate improvements. “I am pleased that the Senate has passed the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act with overwhelming bipartisan support,” said Rep. Conyers. “I call on the Majority to set partisan politics aside and swiftly bring this legislation to the House Floor for a vote as soon as possible.” Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has given domestic violence service providers, law enforcement, and federal, state and local government the tools necessary to assist and help protect countless victims of sexual assault, domestic violence and stalking. “The authorization for VAWA expired 501 days ago as of today,” said Rep. Moore. “That’s 501 days of women waiting for the services that they need and deserve. While they wait, Republicans chatter about their love for women – but women are being ‘loved’ to death every day. One in four women in the U.S. is a victim of domestic violence. Regardless of whether a person is an immigrant, Native American, or LGBT, these victims represent our daughters, our sisters, our mothers and our friends. VAWA was needed yesterday. It is needed even more today. Women cannot wait any longer.” On January 22, Rep. Moore and Rep. Conyers joined other Democrats to introduce H.R. 11, the Violence Against Women Act, in the House of Representatives. The Moore-Conyers bill includes critical updates that strengthen and improve the Violence Against Women Act for tribal women, LGBT victims and immigrant women. The Moore-Conyers bill currently has 194 sponsors. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.10.2013	As Chinese-American families around the country celebrate the Chinese New Year, I urge my constituents and all Americans to learn about the many and varied contributions of Chinese Americans to the development of our nation. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) recognized the start of the Chinese New Year. The Chinese New Year, also called the Spring Festival, is a 15-day celebration beginning on the first day of the Chinese Lunar calendar. Families often reunite to eat and celebrate the beginning of a new year. The feasting is symbolic and one of the most important parts of the celebration. “Today, I am so happy to recognize the start of the Chinese New Year,” said Rep. Moore. “Chinese immigrants have brought fashion, food and fireworks to American culture. As Chinese-American families around the country celebrate the Chinese New Year, I urge my constituents and all Americans to learn about the many and varied contributions of Chinese Americans to the development of our nation.” Each New Year is marked by one of the 12 zodiacal animals. 2013 marks the year of the Snake. Those born during Snake years are said to be self-reliant and able to shed adversity just like a snake sheds its skin. Famous Americans born in Snake years include Oprah Winfrey, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Bob Dylan. Chinese New Year is often celebrated in Chinatowns across the United States. The Chinese New Year celebrations in Milwaukee happened on February 1st and 2nd. Photos from that celebration can be found here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.07.2013	Despite the destruction this disease causes, there is still hope... Now is not the time to cut funding for AIDS research or community support programs. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. “Today marks the 13th year our nation has recognized February 7th as National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. Despite all the advances we have made in HIV/AIDS research and care, many African Americans continue to be disproportionally affected by this terrible disease. No matter one’s sexual orientation, religion or political party the spread of HIV/AIDS is a national concern that we must keep at the front of our minds. “I’m proud to be an original co-sponsor of a resolution supporting National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day that calls on state and local governments, public health agencies and the media to publicize the importance of this day among the African American community. It also calls for reducing stigma and violence and for the creation of a National AIDS Strategy to eliminate AIDS altogether. “African Americans are the most at-risk group in the United States for HIV infection. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, HIV infection among African Americans was almost double that of white Americans and more than double that of Latino Americans in 2010. Despite being less than 10 percent of the population in Wisconsin, African Americans account for 40 percent of HIV infections in the state. This is nothing less than a tragedy. “Despite the destruction this disease causes, there is still hope. African Americans are uniting to raise money for research, develop community support programs and advocate for government support. Government grants often fund the research that produces cures and treatments for the worst diseases. Now is not the time to cut funding for AIDS research or community support programs. “I’d like to use this day to remind all of my constituents that taking precautions and knowing your own HIV status are still the best methods of HIV/AIDS prevention. By discussing this issue and becoming educated about it, we can begin to slow the spread of this awful disease. I urge my colleagues from both parties to stand with me in opposing cuts to HIV/AIDS research.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.01.2013	As we begin to fully recognize the diversity of our great nation, taking a month to specifically recognize African American contributions helps bring greater tolerance and understanding – because Black History is American History. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month. “Every February, we come together as a nation to reflect on the many contributions of African Americans in this country and throughout the world. From the beautiful poetry of Langston Hughes, to the fortitude of Ida B. Wells, to local Wisconsin trailblazers like Vel Phillips and Reuben K. Harpole, Jr. – black history has and continues to be intricately woven into the fabric of our nation. We thank Dr. Carter G. Woodson for his extensive studies of black history, and efforts to bring Black History Month to fruition. “While 28 days seems too short a time to fully appreciate this rich history, it is important that we use each day to promote the important historical contributions of African Americans. Otherwise, it is far too easy for the history books to focus on the Supreme Court’s role in desegregating schools instead of the efforts of Thurgood Marshall. Students could grow up seeing President Johnson as the only man responsible for the Civil Rights Act, forgetting about the roles of Bayard Rustin, A. Phillip Randolph and Martin Luther King, Jr. To only remember Lincoln’s role in ending slavery, and forget about Harriet Tubman and Frederick Douglas, would be an incomplete recollection of American history. “Black History Month gives our nation an opportunity to learn about African American figures that are too often overlooked. Authors like Toni Morrison, actors like Sidney Poitier and business leaders like Robert Johnson can all serve as role models to African American youth, providing examples of Americans who overcame great obstacles to achieve success. “As we begin to fully recognize the diversity of our great nation, taking a month to specifically recognize African American contributions helps bring greater tolerance and understanding – because Black History is American History. “Throughout the month of February and beyond I encourage all people, in my district and across this country, to learn about the many and varied contributions of African Americans to the growth and betterment of our nation.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.25.2013	I am proud to support a program that the IRS estimates lifted 7 million people out of poverty in 2009, 3 million of them children. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-04) released this statement recognizing Earned Income Tax Credit Awareness Day: “Last month, I supported a fiscal deal that not only put in place fairer tax rates for the wealthiest Americans but also extended the expanded Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) for five more years. This tax credit, aimed at low to moderate income earners, has helped countless working Americans avoid poverty and is supported across party lines. “The EITC is one of the largest anti-poverty programs in the United States. I am proud to support a program that the IRS estimates lifted 7 million people out of poverty in 2009, 3 million of them children. As Members of Congress, we have a responsibility to do all we can to alleviate poverty. “In this new year, and throughout these ongoing budget negotiations, we must re-commit ourselves to the cause of ending poverty. Through creating tax policies that protect the most vulnerable Americans, Congress can ensure that people who are working are earning their way out of poverty.” The Office of Congresswoman Gwen Moore encourages everyone to visit the IRS website to determine if you qualify for the Earned Income Tax Credit and to receive free tax assistance. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.23.2013	As a survivor of domestic violence I feel it is my personal responsibility to reach back and help those who have been victimized. No woman should ever feel afraid in her own neighborhood or home. Contact: Drew Hammill (Pelosi), 202-226-7616Andrew Schreiber (Conyers), 202-225-6906Nicole Y Williams (Moore), 202-225-4572 Vow to Work for Swift Reauthorization of Vital Legislation Washington, D.C. – Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers and Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-4) were joined by a number of their colleagues to reintroduce the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013. The legislation strengthens the abilities of the federal government, states, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. The Violence Against Women Act currently has 158 cosponsors in the House. “For nearly two decades, the Violence Against Women Act has brought domestic violence out of the shadows, protected women and children from harm, and saved lives. Congress must build on this history of progress and reauthorize and strengthen this law without any delay,” said Leader Pelosi. “No woman should ever be forced to suffer in silence in the face of abuse, and Democrats are committed to expanding protections for America’s women and giving law enforcement the tools they need to enforce the Violence Against Women Act and keep women safe.” “Since the Violence Against Women Act was signed into law in 1994, it has always enjoyed strong bipartisan support,” said Conyers. “Last Congress, partisan politics got in the way of action, and the Violence Against Women Act was not reauthorized. I call on my colleagues today to put aside their differences and pass this bill as soon as possible for President Obama to sign. Victims of domestic violence can wait no longer.” “Domestic violence is a cancer that pervades our communities and our homes,” said Rep. Moore. “As a survivor of domestic violence I feel it is my personal responsibility to reach back and help those who have been victimized. No woman should ever feel afraid in her own neighborhood or home. No woman should ever have to endure the physical and psychological pain of domestic violence. Yet, too many women continue to live in fear. And that is why we must reauthorize – and strengthen – the Violence Against Women Act.” The Violence Against Women Act has a strong track record of success, demonstrably improving the criminal justice system’s ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. The annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50 percent since the law was originally enacted. This Act provides life-saving support to victims of domestic violence and strengthens communities to help end this brutality. # # #
01.22.2013	The right to choose is an important and deeply personal decision that should be afforded to every woman. We must continue to uphold this right so that women can continue to receive a full range of reproductive health services. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) recognized the 40th Anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision which is today. She released this statement: “Forty years ago, our country’s Supreme Court made a bold statement on behalf of women across this country. The decision in the case of Roe v. Wade protected the reproductive choice of women giving them the opportunity to deal with the issue of unintended pregnancy in a safe and private manner. “Prior to this decision 1.2 million women resorted to illegal abortions each year where they encountered unsanitary conditions, unlicensed and unscrupulous doctors, and very dangerous situations. These ‘back-alley’ abortions often resulted in infection, hemorrhage, disfiguration and even death. “With the re-election of President Barack Obama, the majority of the American people have reaffirmed their commitment to not allow anyone to attempt to erode this decision that has been so critical to women’s health. “The right to choose is an important and deeply personal decision that should be afforded to every woman. We must continue to uphold this right so that women can continue to receive a full range of reproductive health services.” Click here to view Rep. Moore discussing the 40th Anniversary of Roe v. Wade on MSNBC with Thomas Roberts. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.21.2013	I applaud President Obama's actions so far, and look forward to working with him to tackle the many tough issues facing our country and make positive strives to move our country forward as Dr. King would have wanted. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Second Inauguration of President Barack Obama Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined the nation in commemorating Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day and celebrating the second inauguration of President Barack Obama. She released this statement: “Today, I am proud to join with all Americans as we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. How fitting it is that we honor this Civil Rights hero on the same day that we will inaugurate our 44th President, Barack Obama, to his second term. “As we look ahead to four more years of progress, we must also commemorate a peaceful man whose life ended early from gun violence. On this Martin Luther King Jr. Day, let us remember the legacy of the man who spread a message of peace and justice and challenged America to fulfill the true promise of Democracy. “We are also hopeful that President Obama’s second term will bring about needed reforms to our immigration laws, a renewal of the Violence Against Women Act and greater gun safety measures. From Dr. King to the 26 victims at Sandy Hook, America has lost too many innocent civilians to gun violence. Taking action may be difficult, but Dr. King said ‘the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.’ “Today let us celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his remarkable courage in the struggle for justice and peace, by committing to doing what is right even when it is difficult. I applaud President Obama’s actions so far, and look forward to working with him to tackle the many tough issues facing our country and make positive strives to move our country forward as Dr. King would have wanted.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.16.2013	As a Member of Congress I am committed to working with my colleagues to implement these common sense and much needed actions so that we can begin to build safer neighborhoods for everyone – especially our children. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement following President Obama’s announcement of his proposal to prevent and reduce gun violence through the implementation of 23 executive actions and calling on Congress to take a series of steps to ban military-style assault weapons, ban high-capacity assault magazines, strengthen our background check system, and address a series of other challenges: “Unfortunately, my home state of Wisconsin has seen a rash of gun violence over the past year, including a shooting at a local area Sikh Temple which left seven people dead and a shooting in Brookfield that took the lives of three members of our community. “Today’s actions by President Obama are a good first step at addressing the rampant gun violence that plagues our nation. It is my hope that we will now demonstrate the will to see that these initiatives are enacted and take root in our communities. “It is past time that we address this issue. As a Member of Congress I am committed to working with my colleagues to implement these common sense and much needed actions so that we can begin to build safer neighborhoods for everyone – especially our children.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.03.2013	We must reauthorize VAWA, and we must do it now. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement regarding the inability of the 112th Congress to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): “I am extremely disappointed that the 112th Congress failed to reauthorize VAWA. The Senate managed to pass—with a strong bipartisan vote—a bill that reflected many important improvements requested by our nation’s domestic violence service providers, law enforcement, advocates, and others who fought long and hard for their ‘best practices’ to be incorporated. For example, this bill added new housing protections for victims, campus sexual assault provisions, and enhanced services and programs for tribal, immigrant and LGBT victims of violence as well as communities of color. “I am devastated that in the last Congress we missed a critical chance to pass a bill that incorporates all these greatly-needed improvements. Victims will have to continue waiting for help that, at this rate, may be a long time coming. On behalf of those victims, I am deeply upset about the House majority’s lack of action on a comprehensive VAWA bill in the 112th Congress. “However, reports that VAWA is ‘dead’ are untrue; VAWA’s authorization expired over a year ago, but its programs and services continue to operate under language last updated in 2005. Still, VAWA’s current form is in serious need of the updates and enhancements suggested by the domestic violence and sexual assault community. “We must continue to fight for funds for VAWA through the appropriations process, and we absolutely must make sure that the sequester doesn’t hit at the end of February. The sequester’s cuts to VAWA programs would be incredibly harmful, particularly at the state and local level. “Our goal for the next few weeks and months is to speak out on behalf of VAWA and ensure it doesn’t get lost in the shuffle of the debt ceiling and ongoing budget-related discussions. “We must reauthorize VAWA, and we must do it now.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
01.01.2013	While it was not the grand deal I was hoping for, I am pleased that we were able to move forward with a deal that will ensure that tax rates will not go up on the middle class and the most vulnerable of our nation – the poor. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Supports Senate Amendment HR 8 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement following the passage of Senate Amendment HR 8, also known as the “Fiscal Cliff” deal in the House that will prevent tax hikes for the middle class: “While it was not the grand deal I was hoping for, I am pleased that we were able to move forward with a deal that will ensure that tax rates will not go up on the middle class and the most vulnerable of our nation – the poor. “I am particularly pleased that this deal included provisions that will extend unemployment insurance and ensure the wealthy pay their fair share both on their annual as well as investment-related incomes. “Unfortunately, the deal won’t solve all of our problems. In two months we will once again have to debate raising the debt ceiling and address the automatic spending cuts included in the sequestration. It is my sincere hope that the GOP does not try to take a hatchet to the much needed social programs that will be necessary in keeping our economy moving forward. “Make no mistake our economy is growing, but that growth cannot be sustained on the backs of the middle class and the poor. We have already cut nearly $1.5 trillion to critical programs. We must continue to take the necessary steps towards closing tax loopholes and taking common sense steps to resolve our debt crisis and continue to move our economy forward. “I will continue to do all in my power to continue to work on behalf of the least of these. Those whose voices have been ignored time and time again by this Republican controlled ‘do-nothing’ Congress. Let’s hope the New Year brings new beginnings for the way that we govern on behalf of all Americans.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.01.2012	As a government and as a people, we must do everything we can to commit ourselves to ending this disease and reducing the stigma that surrounds this disease. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes World AIDS Day Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in recognition of World AIDS Day, calling for a renewed commitment to combat HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world: “This devastating disease affects millions of men, women and children across all ethnic, social economic and geographical borders. There are an estimated 33.4 million people living with HIV/AIDS around the globe. This virus has taken more than 25 million lives since 1981. “In the United States, someone is infected with this virus every 9.5 minutes, totaling more than an estimated 1.1 million people. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, approximately 50,000 Americans contract HIV each year. “In Wisconsin, over 8,000 people are living with HIV/AIDS. Nearly half of those people live in Milwaukee County. Regardless of an individual’s sexual orientation, it is increasingly important to learn more about this disease, its risk factors, warning signs and prevention methods. “Every day, HIV/AIDS takes our brothers, sisters, parents and friends. Despite the destruction this disease causes, hope remains. Every year, we move closer and closer to realizing an AIDS free generation. Now is not the time to reduce funding and activist efforts to treat, prevent and eradicate this disease. “New scientific breakthroughs have proven effective in preventing the transmission of this disease to infants. Today, HIV positive babies account for only one percent of children born to HIV positive mothers. “This week, Secretary of State Clinton unveiled the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief’s (PEPFAR) ‘Blueprint for an AIDS-Free Generation.’ This plan ensures the United States’ commitment to ending the global AIDS pandemic remains strong and comprehensive, while also providing a roadmap for what the U.S. will do to achieve an AIDS-free generation. “As a government and as a people, we must do everything we can to commit ourselves to ending this disease and reducing the stigma that surrounds this disease. I urge my colleagues, my constituents and all Americans to do your part to end the fight against HIV/AIDS.” World AIDS Day is held on 1 December each year and is an opportunity for people worldwide to unite in the fight against HIV, show their support for people living with HIV and to commemorate people who have died. World AIDS Day was the first ever global health day and the first one was held in 1988. To learn more about World AIDS Day visit their website. To learn more about the President’s plan visit www.pepfar.gov. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.28.2012	Growing Power, Inc. is doing their part to help ensure that Milwaukee children are not only consuming healthy food but also learning how to maintain a healthy food lifestyle. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grant Funding for Growing Power, Inc. Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced nearly $100,000 in grant funding to Growing Power, Inc. to help increase local food access in eligible schools. Growing Power, Inc. was awarded $99,868 in connection with Farm to School, a USDA supported program aimed at improving agricultural and nutritional education by providing locally-sourced food in schools. Through this grant funding, Growing Power, Inc. will be better equipped to provide training on how to produce fresh locally grown foods. “Over 80 percent of Milwaukee Public School children are categorized as low-income and, as a result, may not have access to healthy food options,” said Rep. Moore. “The health of our children must always remain a top priority. Growing Power, Inc. is doing their part to help ensure that Milwaukee children are not only consuming healthy food but also learning how to maintain a healthy food lifestyle.” Farm to School is one component of USDA’s Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food initiative, launched in 2009 to coordinate the Department’s work on local and regional food systems and create new opportunities for farmers, ranchers, consumers and rural communities. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.26.2012	I am proud that this grant funding will help the city build upon our great culture. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grant Funding for Milwaukee Arts Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) announced the release of $50,000 in grant funding to support Milwaukee arts. This grant money will help create and preserve the arts through dance and theater as well as support artist residencies. Milwaukee Ballet Company, Inc. was awarded $10,000 to help support original choreography through the fifth biennial Genesis International Choreographic Competition. Milwaukee Repertory Theater, Inc. was awarded $30,000 to support two theater productions. Redline Milwaukee, Inc. was given $10,000 to support artist residencies. “The City of Milwaukee has a history deeply rooted in the arts,” said Rep. Moore. “I am proud that this grant funding will help the city build upon our great culture.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.16.2012	Ambassador Rice is enormously talented, highly educated, and capable, with a depth of experience that makes her a qualified candidate for a variety of high-level positions. These unwarranted attacks only serve to deter other qualified women... share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams (Moore), (202) 225- 4572LeMia Jenkins (Fudge), (202) 225-7032Carrie Kohns (Bass), (202) 225- 7084Scott McCrary (Holmes Norton), (202) 225-8050Breelyn Pete (Sewell), (202) 225-2665 Washington, DC – Today, a group of House Democratic women Members, led by Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-4), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Karen Bass (CA-33), Eleanor Holmes Norton (Del-District of Columbia) and Terri Sewell (AL-7), held a press conference in support of U.N. Ambassador Susan E. Rice following what they deemed unfair attacks from various Senate and House Republicans. “The baseless ad hominem attacks on Ambassador Rice by several members of the Senate – most notably Sen. John McCain - calling into question her very character, basic level of intelligence, trustworthiness, and qualifications is not only disingenuous but at odds with the actions and stances they have taken in the past, with other potential nominees,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Ambassador Rice is enormously talented, highly educated, and capable, with a depth of experience that makes her a qualified candidate for a variety of high-level positions. These unwarranted attacks only serve to deter other qualified women from seeking similar high profile positions for which they are eminently qualified -and it is our nation that loses.” “There is no legitimacy to the notion that Ambassador Rice would deliberately mislead the nation,” said Rep. Karen Bass. “What our Republican colleagues are accusing her of is completely inconsistent with her more than 20 year history as a diplomat. This is clearly petty politics and today we are standing behind Ambassador Rice to highlight her impeccable academic and professional record.” "Ambassador Rice has carried out her duties with diligence, integrity and skill,” said Rep. Marcia Fudge. “Partisan claims that the Ambassador would intentionally mislead Americans about the unfolding situation in Benghazi are not only baseless but suspect. This highly capable public servant has done nothing to deserve the vicious mischaracterizations of her fitness to serve in any capacity the President believes is appropriate. I have full confidence in Susan Rice to serve this nation well. She has earned that confidence, not based on race or gender but on ability." “One of my committees had a rare hearing in the middle of recess on Benghazi. Despite the documented intelligence from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, on which Ambassador Susan Rice relied on as the source of her statements, and the testimony of Ambassador Patrick Kennedy that he, too, relied on the same information, Republicans then and Republicans now shun evidence in favor of partisanship,” Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton said. “Susan Rice is not a part of the problems in Benghazi and should need no defense, but she should get the most vigorous defense from fair-minded colleagues, especially women.” “I have known Ambassador Rice for over 25 years, long before her political appointments and outside the glare of Washington politics,” said Rep. Terri Sewell. “I can personally speak to her integrity, professionalism and character. Ambassador Rice is a brilliant scholar, an outstanding American Diplomat and has served our nation with great honor, dedication and leadership. These recent attempts to discredit and smear the reputation and extraordinary diplomatic work of Ambassador Rice are simply outrageous. To suggest that she would knowingly and purposefully mislead the American people is merely not true. This tragic incident should not be fodder for partisan politics at a time when we should be working together to apprehend the real culprits. Ambassador Rice acted in good faith in reporting what she had been told by CIA intelligence. I am offended that some Republican senators would even suggest that this administration and one of its chief diplomat would be complicitous,” added Sewell. Yesterday the group released a statement that was co-signed by more than 50 House Members. They included Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-4), Marcia Fudge (OH-11), Karen Bass (CA-33), Eleanor Holmes Norton (Del.-D.C.), Terri Sewell (AL-7), James E. Clyburn (SC-6), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20), Barbara Lee (CA-9), Silvestre Reyes (TX-16), Yvette D. Clarke (NY-11), Adam Smith (WA-9), Frederica S. Wilson (FL-17), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Rick Larsen (WA-2), Steve Cohen (TN-9), Janice D. Schakowsky (IL-9), John Conyers Jr. (MI-14), Brad Sherman (CA-27), Louise Slaughter (NY-28), Betty McCollum (MN-4), Corrine Brown (FL-3), Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5), Bobby L. Rush (IL-1), Gerald E. Connolly (VA-11), Danny K. Davis (IL-7), Hansen Clarke (MI-13), Sanford D. Bishop (GA-2), G.K. Butterfield (NC-1), Elijah Cummings (MD-7), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Charles B. Rangel (NY-15), Cedric L. Richmond (LA-2), David Scott (GA-13), Robert “Bobby” Scott (VA-3), Al Green (TX-9), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Melvin L. Watt (NC-12), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-23), Tim Ryan (OH-17), Donna M. Christensen (Del.- V.I.), Henry “Hank” Johnson (GA-4), Andre Carson (IN-7), Chaka Fattah (PA-2), William Lacy Clay (MO-1), Michael Honda (CA-15), Gregory W. Meeks (NY-6), Doris Matsui (CA-5), Bennie G. Thompson (MS-2), Laura Richardson (CA-37), John Lewis (GA-5), Janice Hahn (CA-36), Donna Edwards (MD-4), and Rush Holt (NJ-12). ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.16.2012	I am deeply disappointed to hear that Governor Walker has again put his own agenda ahead of the best interests of the people of Wisconsin. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement Regarding Walker’s Refusal to Create Health Exchange Washington, DC - Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement after receiving news that Governor Scott Walker of the State of Wisconsin has refused to build a state-based health insurance exchange: "I am deeply disappointed to hear that Governor Walker has again put his own agenda ahead of the best interests of the people of Wisconsin. Wisconsin’s health care system is one of the most innovative in the nation, and we were given the chance to manage our own health insurance marketplace, tailored to the needs of Wisconsin residents. The state is also better positioned than the federal government to do local outreach so that people are aware of their coverage options. “At the very least, I hoped that the Governor would select the ‘partnership’ option, and work hand-in-hand with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to implement the exchange. But the Governor has rejected that option, as well. “I have full confidence that HHS will do the best job it possibly can, and build the best possible exchange model, to ensure that all states have well-run exchanges. But I am still dismayed that the State of Wisconsin will have a more limited role in operating the exchange. “I had hoped that now that the election is behind us and the future of the Affordable Care Act is no longer in question, Wisconsin’s elected officials could work together on health care in the smartest way possible. The recent election of President Obama showed that a majority of the people of Wisconsin are in favor of Obamacare. It is unfortunate that Governor Walker has chosen to go against the people of Wisconsin with this decision.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.15.2012	Today, a group of House Democratic women Members released a statement of support of U.N. Ambassador Susan E. Rice following what they deemed unfair attacks from various Senate and House Republicans. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams (Moore), (202) 225- 4572LeMia Jenkins (Fudge), (202) 225-7032Carrie Kohns (Bass), (202) 225- 7084Scott McCrary (Holmes Norton), (202) 225-8050Breelyn Pete (Sewell), (202) 225-2665 Washington, DC – Today, a group of House Democratic women Members, led by Reps. Gwen Moore (WI-4), Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11), Karen Bass (CA-37), Eleanor Holmes Norton (Del-District of Columbia) and Terri Sewell (AL-7), released a statement of support of U.N. Ambassador Susan E. Rice following what they deemed unfair attacks from various Senate and House Republicans. In addition to the statement, the Members will be holding a press conference tomorrow, November 16, 2012 at 10:00am in the House Radio and TV Gallery. The statement read as follows:In Defense and Support of Ambassador Susan E. RiceAcknowledging the Extraordinary Contributions of an Exemplary American Diplomat and Servant In January 2009, when President Obama nominated Susan Rice to the post of U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations and a member of his Cabinet, he did so knowing very well there were few with more skill, depth of experience and long-standing commitment to service. President Obama nominated a Rhodes Scholar, Stanford University graduate and former U.S. Assistant Secretary of State. Over the last several days, Senators McCain, Graham, and Ayotte have gone to extraordinary lengths to level unfair attacks against a stalwart American whose public service spans two administrations. In particular, Mr. McCain’s assertion that Ambassador Rice is “unqualified” is unsettling. It is disappointing that someone who has served his nation with distinction – both in the Navy and the U.S. Senate – would stoop to petty politics rather than direct precious time and energy to discussions around the safety and security of our foreign service and civil servants. We call on Senators McCain, Graham, and Ayotte to immediately retract their troubling remarks and shift focus to the important and critical security concerns of our diplomats abroad. In nominating Ambassador Rice, the President recognized the extraordinary contributions she has made in the service of her nation and in international relations. From 2002 to 2009, Rice was a foreign policy Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. From 1995 to 1997, she served as Special Assistant to President Clinton and Senior Director for African Affairs at the National Security Council. And from 1993 to 1995, she served as the Director for International Organizations and Peacekeeping on the National Security Council. Throughout her impressive career, Ambassador Rice has promoted peace and security in regions plagued by instability and crisis and has been a champion in the difficult work to advance U.S. national security and U.S interests aboard. President Obama recently noted of Ambassador Rice’s service, "Let me say specifically about Susan Rice: She has done exemplary work. She has represented the U.S. and our interests in the U.N. with skill and professionalism and toughness and grace." As the recipient of the 2000 Samuel Nelson Drew Memorial Award for distinguished contributions to the formation of peaceful, cooperative relationships between states and an expert on fragile states, global poverty and transitional security, Ambassador Rice is an American treasure. We applaud Ambassador Rice for her exemplary service to our great nation. Gwen S. MooreMember of Congress Marcia L. FudgeMember of Congress Karen BassMembers of Congress Eleanor Holmes NortonMember of Congress Terri SewellMember of Congress WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4)Congresswoman Marcia L. Fudge (OH-11)Congresswoman Karen Bass (CA-37)Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (Del. – District of Columbia)Congresswoman Terri Sewell (AL-7) WHAT: Press Conference in Support of Ambassador Susan E. Rice WHEN: Friday, November 16, 201210:00 AM ET WHERE: House Radio and TV GalleryStudio A ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.13.2012	Today Wisconsin legislators sent a letter to Governor Scott Walker asking him to move forward in implementing Wisconsin's state-based health insurance exchange, made possible through the Affordable Care Act of 2010. share: f t Contact: Leah Hunter (Kind) 202-225-5506Ken Willis (Kohl) 202-224-5364Jerilyn Goodman (Baldwin) 608-251-8737Nicole Williams (Moore) 202-225-4572 Kohl, Baldwin, Kind, Moore and Pocan Encourage Governor Walker to Implement State-Based Health Insurance Exchange WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-3), Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Representative-elect Mark Pocan (WI-2) today sent a letter to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker asking him to move forward in implementing Wisconsin’s state-based health insurance exchange, made possible through the Affordable Care Act of 2010. Walker faces a November 16th deadline in deciding whether the state will run its own exchange or the federal government will run Wisconsin’s exchange. “It is critical that Governor Walker moves forward and allows the State of Wisconsin to set up the health insurance exchange that best meets the needs of small businesses, family farmers and consumers here at home, it’s the Wisconsin way,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Health insurance exchanges have previously had bipartisan support. Now is the time to put partisanship aside and do what is best for the people of Wisconsin.” “State leaders must choose whether to create a state-based exchange, a hybrid state-federal exchange, or leave it entirely up to the federal government,” said Senator Herb Kohl. “The best choice for Wisconsin’s small businesses, families and individuals is to keep things in our state so we can meet our unique and specific needs. I hope that they will make the right decision for Wisconsinites.” “Wisconsin has a strong tradition of advancing health care reforms and this is an important opportunity for our state to lead in moving reform forward,” said Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin. “I am committed to bringing people together and working collaboratively to make America’s new health care law work for Wisconsin. I also believe that putting in place a Wisconsin-run health insurance exchange will provide Wisconsin families and businesses more choices for the quality coverage our state is known for providing our citizens. Taking ownership of this opportunity is the right path forward for all of Wisconsin." “The implementation of this health insurance exchange, should Governor Walker allow it to proceed, will provide Wisconsinites with a ‘one stop shopping’ experience to compare prices, quality and physician and hospital networks,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “This program will empower Wisconsinites to determine what works best for them and their families while keeping prices low and affordable. I join my colleagues in urging the Governor to move forward with this vital implementation.” "Wisconsin voters went to the polls this election and supported candidates who advocate polices that extend health care to more and more Americans," said Rep-Elect Mark Pocan. "We must ensure the people of our state have every opportunity to access quality health care."Health care reform provides for state-based health insurance exchanges that allow small businesses, family farmers, and individuals to pool their purchasing power to find quality, affordable health care. Exchanges create a marketplace that allow consumers to comparison shop among a variety of plans and prices, giving all Americans access to the same type of quality, affordable coverage that is now often available only to large employers. Based on the SHOP Act, authored by Rep. Kind, exchanges have long received strong bipartisan support because they are transparent, consumer-friendly, and operate on free market principles. With President Obama’s reelection and a Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act will continue to be fully implemented. The state faces a November 16, 2012 deadline to notify the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services how the Wisconsin exchange will oContact: Leah Hunter (Kind) 202-225-5506Ken Willis (Kohl) 202-224-5364Jerilyn Goodman (Baldwin) 608-251-8737Nicole Williams (Moore) 202-225-4572 Kohl, Baldwin, Kind, Moore and Pocan Encourage Governor Walker to Implement State-Based Health Insurance Exchange WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-3), Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Representative-elect Mark Pocan (WI-2) today sent a letter to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker asking him to move forward in implementing Wisconsin’s state-based health insurance exchange, made possible through the Affordable Care Act of 2010. Walker faces a November 16th deadline in deciding whether the state will run its own exchange or the federal government will run Wisconsin’s exchange. “It is critical that Governor Walker moves forward and allows the State of Wisconsin to set up the health insurance exchange that best meets the needs of small businesses, family farmers and consumers here at home, it’s the Wisconsin way,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Health insurance exchanges have previously had bipartisan support. Now is the time to put partisanship aside and do what is best for the people of Wisconsin.” “State leaders must choose whether to create a state-based exchange, a hybrid state-federal exchange, or leave it entirely up to the federal government,” said Senator Herb Kohl. “The best choice for Wisconsin’s small businesses, families and individuals is to keep things in our state so we can meet our unique and specific needs. I hope that they will make the right decision for Wisconsinites.” “Wisconsin has a strong tradition of advancing health care reforms and this is an important opportunity for our state to lead in moving reform forward,” said Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin. “I am committed to bringing people together and working collaboratively to make America’s new health care law work for Wisconsin. I also believe that putting in place a Wisconsin-run health insurance exchange will provide Wisconsin families and businesses more choices for the quality coverage our state is known for providing our citizens. Taking ownership of this opportunity is the right path forward for all of Wisconsin." “The implementation of this health insurance exchange, should Governor Walker allow it to proceed, will provide Wisconsinites with a ‘one stop shopping’ experience to compare prices, quality and physician and hospital networks,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “This program will empower Wisconsinites to determine what works best for them and their families while keeping prices low and affordable. I join my colleagues in urging the Governor to move forward with this vital implementation.” "Wisconsin voters went to the polls this election and supported candidates who advocate polices that extend health care to more and more Americans," said Rep-Elect Mark Pocan. "We must ensure the people of our state have every opportunity to access quality health care."Health care reform provides for state-based health insurance exchanges that allow small businesses, family farmers, and individuals to pool their purchasing power to find quality, affordable health care. Exchanges create a marketplace that allow consumers to comparison shop among a variety of plans and prices, giving all Americans access to the same type of quality, affordable coverage that is now often available only to large employers. Based on the SHOP Act, authored by Rep. Kind, exchanges have long received strong bipartisan support because they are transparent, consumer-friendly, and operate on free market principles. With President Obama’s reelection and a Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act will continue to be fully implemented. The state faces a November 16, 2012 deadline to notify the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services how the Wisconsin exchange will operate.Contact: Leah Hunter (Kind) 202-225-5506Ken Willis (Kohl) 202-224-5364Jerilyn Goodman (Baldwin) 608-251-8737Nicole Williams (Moore) 202-225-4572 Kohl, Baldwin, Kind, Moore and Pocan Encourage Governor Walker to Implement State-Based Health Insurance Exchange WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senator Herb Kohl, Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin, U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (WI-3), Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Representative-elect Mark Pocan (WI-2) today sent a letter to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker asking him to move forward in implementing Wisconsin’s state-based health insurance exchange, made possible through the Affordable Care Act of 2010. Walker faces a November 16th deadline in deciding whether the state will run its own exchange or the federal government will run Wisconsin’s exchange. “It is critical that Governor Walker moves forward and allows the State of Wisconsin to set up the health insurance exchange that best meets the needs of small businesses, family farmers and consumers here at home, it’s the Wisconsin way,” said Rep. Ron Kind. “Health insurance exchanges have previously had bipartisan support. Now is the time to put partisanship aside and do what is best for the people of Wisconsin.” “State leaders must choose whether to create a state-based exchange, a hybrid state-federal exchange, or leave it entirely up to the federal government,” said Senator Herb Kohl. “The best choice for Wisconsin’s small businesses, families and individuals is to keep things in our state so we can meet our unique and specific needs. I hope that they will make the right decision for Wisconsinites.” “Wisconsin has a strong tradition of advancing health care reforms and this is an important opportunity for our state to lead in moving reform forward,” said Senator-elect Tammy Baldwin. “I am committed to bringing people together and working collaboratively to make America’s new health care law work for Wisconsin. I also believe that putting in place a Wisconsin-run health insurance exchange will provide Wisconsin families and businesses more choices for the quality coverage our state is known for providing our citizens. Taking ownership of this opportunity is the right path forward for all of Wisconsin." “The implementation of this health insurance exchange, should Governor Walker allow it to proceed, will provide Wisconsinites with a ‘one stop shopping’ experience to compare prices, quality and physician and hospital networks,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “This program will empower Wisconsinites to determine what works best for them and their families while keeping prices low and affordable. I join my colleagues in urging the Governor to move forward with this vital implementation.” "Wisconsin voters went to the polls this election and supported candidates who advocate polices that extend health care to more and more Americans," said Rep-Elect Mark Pocan. "We must ensure the people of our state have every opportunity to access quality health care." Health care reform provides for state-based health insurance exchanges that allow small businesses, family farmers, and individuals to pool their purchasing power to find quality, affordable health care. Exchanges create a marketplace that allow consumers to comparison shop among a variety of plans and prices, giving all Americans access to the same type of quality, affordable coverage that is now often available only to large employers. Based on the SHOP Act, authored by Rep. Kind, exchanges have long received strong bipartisan support because they are transparent, consumer-friendly, and operate on free market principles. With President Obama’s reelection and a Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act will continue to be fully implemented. The state faces a November 16, 2012 deadline to notify the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services how the Wisconsin exchange will operate. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.12.2012	Every year, we join together to remember those who have and continue to serve our country around the world in the name of freedom and democracy... share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Honors Troops, Veterans on Veteran’s Day Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) extended her support for our veterans, service members and their families in recognition of Veteran’s Day. “Every year, we join together to remember those who have and continue to serve our country around the world in the name of freedom and democracy – especially those who gave the ultimate sacrifice. They honorably carry out their duties for their county so that we might enjoy the freedoms that we hold so dear. The debt we owe them and their families is immeasurable, and I believe we have a moral responsibility to keep our promise to all of the soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines and Coast Guardsmen who have served our nation. “Now, more than ever, we must renew our commitment to keep our promises to the nation’s more than 2 million troops and reservists, their families, and 23 million veterans, including nearly 400,000 in Wisconsin. As they return home, the President and Democrats in Congress are focused on taking major steps to help them obtain good jobs. “I remain extremely concerned about the mental and physical health needs of our veterans, including those returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. The prevalence of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and suicide remain disturbingly high. For far too many of them, the battle doesn’t end when they leave the battlefield. We must also continue to shine a spotlight on the health needs of military families, ensuring that they receive the proper care and services upon returning home from these conflicts. “Additionally, over 12 percent of our nation’s veterans who have served since the September 11, 2001 attacks are currently unemployed and hundreds of thousands of veterans are finding themselves homeless on any given day. It is inexcusable for Congress to stand idly by as an additional 40,000 estimated troops come home to a dismal and challenging job market at the end of the year. They have sacrificed so much for this country fighting on the battlefield, they should not have to fight for a job when they return home. We must provide them with the necessary resources and support that will enable them to rejoin the workforce. “Last fall, Congress enacted President Obama’s veterans hiring initiative, to expand job opportunities for our veterans through tax credits for businesses that hire service members. The VOW to Hire Heroes Act also includes additional provisions to boost hiring for veterans and provide them with the training they need to find a job in civilian life. With this law, America can welcome our soldiers, sailors, Marines, airmen, and Coast Guardsmen back into their communities as entrepreneurs, small business owners, and workers. We must also explore the idea of a Veterans Job Corps to help returning veterans find pathways to employment. “Here in Milwaukee, I continue to work with the local Veteran’s Administration to ensure that our hospital has the capacity and resources to treat the needs of our returning heroes as well as our heroes from previous generations. “The best way to honor all of our military troops, veterans and their families around the world who continue to proudly serve our country would be to further dedicate ourselves to providing them with the necessary support and resources that they deserve. I remain committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that the needs of our veterans are taken care of.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.26.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett sent a letter to Armslist LLC. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (Moore)(202) 225- 4572 Jodie Tabak (Barrett)(414) 286-8504 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett sent a letter to Armslist LLC. This letter was in response to findings that Radcliffe Haughton illegally purchased the firearm that he used in a Milwaukee area shooting, killing three and injuring four. The letter urges greater self-regulation for online purchases of firearms and an increased partnership with elected officials to enact common-sense reforms. The letter reads as follows: October 26, 2012Armslist LLCPo Box 2125Noble, OK 73068 To the owner(s) of Armlist, LLC: I am joined in writing this letter with Mayor Barrett from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Just two months after a deadly shooting rampage claimed six lives at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin, our home state once again finds itself the victim of senseless gun violence. Three innocent people are dead and, regretfully, it has come to our attention that the crime gun was purchased from a private dealer on your website. On Sunday morning, 45-year-old Radcliffe Haughton shot and killed three people in a Brookfield spa, including his wife. Though federal law barred Haughton from buying or possessing a firearm after his wife obtained a domestic violence restraining order against him, he was able to avoid an instant background check by purchasing a gun through a private, unlicensed seller on Armslist.com. While licensed gun dealers are required by federal law to conduct background checks, private sellers are not. For Haughton, this lethal loophole made breaking the law to buy a .40-caliber handgun as easy as searching the internet. The alarming reality is that illegal gun purchases seem to occur too frequently on websites like Armslist.com. A 2011 investigation by the City of New York found that 62 percent of online sellers, including 54 percent of those on your site, were willing to sell firearms to buyers even after they said they could not pass a background check – a felony under federal law. In the last 100 days alone, according to Mayors Against Illegal Guns, there were more than 30,000 unique gun listings on Armslist.com, 86 percent of which were listed by private sellers. Such an extensive, unregulated forum for firearm sales should have strong safeguards in place to help keep firearms out of the hands of dangerous individuals, including those who have committed domestic violence. It is illegal for private dealers to sell a gun if they reasonably know, or should know that the buyer is listed as a prohibited person. Unfortunately, the degree of anonymity on websites like yours can accompany gun sales that are made without full knowledge of the prospective buyer. We thank you for any steps you may have already taken to prevent illegal gun sales from occurring, however we also urge you to continue working towards preventing future senseless tragedies. Potential steps forward could include requiring more transparency of buyers and sellers, facilitating reporting of suspicious behavior, conducting internal audits, and ensuring that individuals who use your site have the best resources and information available to safely sell their firearms. We are hopeful we can arrange a meeting to discuss specific next steps, as we believe we can work together to fix our broken system through common-sense reforms. Thank you for your attention to this critical public safety issue, and we look forward to continuing the conversation. Sincerely,s/ s/Gwen Moore Tom BarrettMember of Congress Mayor of Milwaukee ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.23.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore submitted a letter to U.S. banking regulators on behalf of a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress from the Wisconsin delegation expressing concerns over Basel III regulatory capital requirements. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Sends Letter Urging Regulators to Weigh Rulemaking Impact on Small and Community Banks Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) submitted a letter to U.S. banking regulators on behalf of a bipartisan coalition of Members of Congress from the Wisconsin delegation asking regulators to consider a scaled approach to the implementation of Basel III banking regulations for small and community banks. Representative Moore was pleased to have the support of Representatives Duffy, Kind, Petri, Ribble and Sensenbrenner. The letter reads as follows: Oct 23, 2012 The Honorable Ben BernankeChairmanThe Federal Reserve System20th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, DC 20551 The Honorable Martin J. GruenbergActing ChairmanFederal Deposit Insurance Corporation550 17th Street, N.W.Washington, DC 20429 The Honorable Tom CurryComptrollerOffice of the Comptroller of the Currency250 E. Street, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20551 RE: Regulatory Capital Rules: (1) Regulatory Capital, Implementation of Basel III, Minimum Regulatory Capital Ratios, Capital Adequacy, Transition Provisions, and Prompt Correction Act: Docket No. R-1442; RIN 3064-AD95; Docket ID OCC-2012-0008; and (2) Standardized Approach for Risk-Weighted Assets, Market Discipline and Disclosure Requirements: RIN No. 7100-AD87; RIN 3064-AD96; Docket ID OCC-2012-0009 Dear Chairman Bernanke, Acting Chairman Gruenberg, and Comptroller Curry: The undersigned Members of Congress representing the State of Wisconsin respectfully submit the following comments expressing concerns with the potential impact that Basel III regulatory capital requirements may have on community banks in Wisconsin. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act already imposes minimum capital and risk-based capital requirements on all banks, and banks are complying with these requirements. In addition, the agreement reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel III) has prompted your various agencies to release a joint notice of proposed rulemakings to revise risk-based and leverage requirements that will apply to all U.S. banks, with the exception of bank holding companies that have consolidated assets of less than $500 million. Basel III was primarily conceived as an international standard for large, sophisticated banks. We urge you to carefully weigh the effect that these proposed rules will have on small banks, particularly with respect to commercial and consumer community lending, and to consider an approach that is appropriately scaled for the size and complexity of the banking institution covered. We recognize and appreciate the work of your agencies to draft, propose, and finalize rules related to protecting the soundness of the global banking system. However, we continue to worry that the proposed rulemakings overlay an unnecessary burden on community banks that may restrict community lending by small banks, discourage banks from purchasing and holding long-term assets like Treasury notes and municipal bonds, and promote consolidation of community banks without a corresponding benefit in the overall soundness of the banking system. Therefore, we believe that a “dual” approach that recognizes the disparate risks and business models of small community banks and large banks ultimately best serves Wisconsin by permitting a robust community banking system to flourish, while still mitigating the risks to the financial system posed by insured institutions. We look forward to working with you on this issue in the coming months. Thank you for your consideration of our comments. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.23.2012	I am proud that Milwaukee is able to provide mass transit, but the County cannot act alone. In order to improve the way of life for Milwaukee-area residents, we must continue to support our infrastructure through increased funding. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Support and Ride Press Conference Highlights Need for Funding of Public Transportation Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) in cooperation with local transportation organizations and various elected officials hosted a transportation press conference to discuss mass transit fiscal needs at all levels of government. The press conference sought to highlight a number of initiatives that would increase access and reinforce the infrastructure of mass transit in Milwaukee County and across the country. Issues discussed included the dedication of funding from the Federal Transportation Fund, reauthorization of the Federal Surface Transportations Program, discretionary federal capital funding, restoration of the State Transit Operating Assistance and reexamining the WisDot Transit Funding Distribution System. “Whether they are riding to school, to work, or anything in between, my constituents rely on public transportation,” said Rep. Moore. “I am proud that Milwaukee is able to provide mass transit, but the County cannot act alone. In order to improve the way of life for Milwaukee-area residents, we must continue to support our infrastructure through increased funding.” "I want to thank Congresswoman Moore for her strong advocacy," Milwaukee County Executive Chris Abele said. "Milwaukee County Transit gets people to work, school and home and with strong partners at the federal and state level we will continue this vital service." "As Chairwoman, I've put Transit at the top of my agenda, based on its vital role in linking people to jobs, education and other economic drivers," said Milwaukee County Board Chair Marina Dimitrijevic."Personally, I've logged hundreds of miles on Milwaukee County Transit System buses for my ‘Chat with the Chair’ sessions, where transportation is one of the most discussed topics." “Mass transit is a solid investment in the strength of our economy and vitality of our neighborhoods,” said State Senator Chris Larson. “Mass transit is a crucial tool to creating opportunity and success in our community and across Wisconsin.” “Our communities urgently need the jobs and economic development that smart transit investments bring,” said Alan Simonis, President of the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 998. “Public transportation is a lifeline for so many. Transportation in our community strengthens our economy and creates much-needed jobs for families, linking us to the region and attracting new development, employers and tourism.” Today’s press conference is part of a nationwide effort to spotlight the need for increased support of mass transit. "We are proud to be a part of this bi-partisan effort to support mass transit,” said Gary Goyke of the Wisconsin Urban and Rural Transit Association. “Elected officials ranging from a New Jersey Republican to a California Democrat have endorsed our efforts to improve and increase access to mass transit. Efforts like these will cross this great nation showing firm support for our public transportation systems." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.22.2012	On Tuesday, October 23, Congresswoman Gwen Moore in cooperation with local transportation organizations and various elected officials will host a transportation press conference to discuss mass transit fiscal needs at all levels of government. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Hosts Support and Ride Press Conference Milwaukee, WI – On Tuesday, October 23, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) in cooperation with local transportation organizations and various elected officials will host a transportation press conference to discuss mass transit fiscal needs at all levels of government. “Whether they are riding to school, to work, or anything in between, my constituents rely on public transportation,” said Rep. Moore. “I am proud that Milwaukee is able to provide mass transit, but the County cannot act alone. In order to improve the way of life for Milwaukee-area residents, we must continue to support our infrastructure through increased funding.” For more information about this press conference, please call the Washington, DC office at 202-225-4572. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) Marina Dimitrijevic, Milwaukee County Board Chair State Senator Chris Larson (WI-7) Alan Simonis, President Amalgamated Transit Union Local 998 Gary Goyke, Wisconsin Urban and Rural Transit Association Representative from the Office of Milwaukee County Executive Abele WHAT: Support and Ride Press Conference WHEN: Tuesday, October 23, 2012 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM WHERE: Milwaukee County Transit System Fond du Lac Station 3201 W. Fond du Lac Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53210 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.21.2012	My thoughts and prayers remain with the families of those that have lost loved ones as well as the families of those injured in this senseless act of violence. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI - Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following a shooting at a hair salon near a Milwaukee-area shopping mall. "I am deeply saddened and troubled by the news of today’s shooting in Brookfield that tragically took the lives of three members of our community. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families of those that have lost loved ones as well as the families of those injured in this senseless act of violence. "I will continue to monitor this situation as it develops." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.11.2012	It is my hope that this investigation will help to quell those concerns, provide closure and most importantly, healing for the family of Derek Williams and our community. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) commented on the decision of the Department of Justice to initiate an investigation into the death of Milwaukee resident Derek Williams in July of last year along with a broader investigation into the practices of the Milwaukee Police Department. Last month, Rep. Moore sent a letter to U.S. District Attorney James Santelle requesting a review of the uncertain circumstances surrounding Derek Williams’ death while in the custody of the Milwaukee Police Department as well as broader concerns about the department’s policies and practices. “The emerging details of this case have been extremely concerning to the people of the Milwaukee community. It is my hope that this investigation will help to quell those concerns, provide closure and most importantly, healing for the family of Derek Williams and our community.” To view the full release on this issue from the Department of Justice, please click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.11.2012	I was proud to recently join 25 of my colleagues in the fight against hate. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Supports National Coming Out Day Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the NOH8 Campaign released her photo in support of the 25th Anniversary of National Coming Out Day, marriage equality, and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) rights. “I was proud to recently join 25 of my colleagues in the fight against hate,” said Rep. Moore. “The LGBT community has been silenced for far too long. Today we take a stand.” To view Congresswoman Moore’s photo and quote, click this link. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.05.2012	One of the great things about calling Milwaukee home is that I am surrounded by people whose goal is to improve the life outcomes of not only themselves but those in their community as well. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grant Funding to Support Milwaukee Health Services Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, announced the release of over $2 million in grant funding to support a variety of health services in the Milwaukee area. The Northwest Side Community Development Corporation was awarded $728,750 to help expand manufacturing research and development in the Milwaukee area. A $100,000 grant was awarded to the Lutheran Social Services of Wisconsin and Upper Michigan to help support their Street Outreach Program for runaway and homeless youth. Walker's Point Youth and Family Center also received $147,853 in grant funding to support their Runaway and Teen Crisis Program. Meta House Inc. was awarded $1,075,000 to help mothers living with substance abuse addictions receive treatment as well as assist abandoned infants. This grant also helps to provide child care services and academic assistance for those children whose mothers are receiving treatment. In addition to the above funding, Marquette University was awarded $300,000 to offer additional scholarships for disadvantaged students. “One of the great things about calling Milwaukee home is that I am surrounded by people whose goal is to improve the life outcomes of not only themselves but those in their community as well,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “This grant funding is a perfect example of that Milwaukee spirit. Whether someone is looking to gain an exit out of poverty, one of our youth is in trouble, a mother is struggling with substance abuse, or a student is aspiring towards a higher education but lacks the funding, there are those who are here to lend a hand. I am proud to be a part of this effort." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.03.2012	Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, along with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, announced the release of over $300,000 in grant funding to help protect Lake Michigan from aquatic invasive species (AIS). share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grant Funding to Protect Lake Michigan from Invasive Species Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, announced the release of over $300,000 in grant funding to help protect Lake Michigan from aquatic invasive species (AIS). In conjunction with the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative – a project intended to restore the Great Lakes’ ecosystem – this grant was awarded to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee’s “Monitoring of Invasive Species in Ballast Water” program. Aimed at preventing the spread of aquatic invasive species, this project will allow vessels to use holograph-based technology, and similar software, to help identify AIS in ballast water throughout the duration of a voyage. “One of my greatest joys representing the fourth district of Wisconsin is the ability to work to protect Lake Michigan from the various threats it faces including invaders being carried into the lake in ballast water,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “These funds will help support innovative research at a world class local institution that will help give us more weapons in the fight to keep invasive species out of the Great Lakes.” Congress provided $300 million in funding for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative in FY 2012. “A recent poll found that a great majority of Wisconsinites believe federal investments to protect and restore the Great Lakes must continue. I could not agree more, which is why I will continue to support the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative.” To learn more about the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative visit their website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.01.2012	This month, and throughout the year, let us empower others to join the fight against domestic violence. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Domestic Violence Awareness Month Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commemorating National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, which is recognized every year in October. “Every day women across our nation live in fear of being abused by a partner. One in four women will experience domestic violence at some point in her life. Like a plague, this abuse affects women across all backgrounds. For years, the consequences of domestic violence were ignored or minimized. With this abuse currently taking an average of three women’s lives per day in the United States, we cannot afford to be cast aside any longer. “To help address this critical issue, I introduced a strong, comprehensive update of the Violence Against Women Act in March. This much-needed legislation would help reduce domestic violence among all women. Yet as with many other pieces of legislation vital to women, House Republicans have dismantled it. They went further to even draft and pass their own version which ignores entire groups of victims. “Many in Congress use women’s health and safety as a talking point in an effort to win political points with their base. Meanwhile, the lives of women are at risk. As a survivor of domestic violence, I understand the devastating effects this abuse can have. We must stop partisan bickering and reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act to protect all victims of domestic violence. “This month, and throughout the year, let us empower others to join the fight against domestic violence.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
10.01.2012	We must continue to do all we can to fight breast cancer. I encourage all women to use this month to learn more about breast cancer and to take positive steps to make their health a priority. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National Breast Cancer Awareness Month Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commemorating National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, which is celebrated every year in October. “Cancer transcends every racial, cultural and socioeconomic border. This disease does not discriminate when it takes the lives of our mothers, our sisters, our daughters and our friends. Over the years, great advancements have been made to combat cancer through research, education and early detection. Despite these gains, breast cancer still remains a major threat to women’s health. This threat is why the Affordable Care Act is so vital. “Through President Obama’s landmark health care reform law, women can receive mammograms without the financial burden of paying a deductible or co pay. When this legislation is in full effect, women will no longer be denied access to health coverage due to breast cancer. “We must continue to do all we can to fight breast cancer. I encourage all women to use this month to learn more about breast cancer and to take positive steps to make their health a priority. “This month and every month, let us honor breast cancer survivors, remember those we lost and recommit ourselves to finding a cure.” To learn more about breast cancer awareness month events in the Milwaukee area, please visit the Wisconsin Comprehensive Cancer Control Program website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.27.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore sent a letter to U.S. District Attorney James Santelle requesting a review of the circumstances surrounding the controversial death of Milwaukee resident Derek Williams in July of last year. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Sends Letter to U.S. District Attorney Calling for Review of Controversial Death of Derek Williams Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent a letter to U.S. District Attorney James Santelle requesting a review of the circumstances surrounding the controversial death of Milwaukee resident Derek Williams in July of last year. The letter reads as follows: September 27, 2012 The Honorable James SantelleUnited States Attorney for the Eastern District of WisconsinU.S. Attorney’s Office530 Federal Building, 517 East Wisconsin Ave.Milwaukee, WI 53202-4500 Dear Mr. Santelle, I write this letter to respectfully request your assistance in reviewing the circumstances surrounding the controversial death of Derek Williams who died on July 6, 2011 while in police custody. A Sept. 22, 2012 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel article reported that the Milwaukee County medical examiner’s office changed their ruling on the cause of Mr. Williams’ death from natural causes to homicide. The article reports that the medical examiner’s office revisited and subsequently changed the cause of death determination after reviewing new information that the newspaper provided them, including video footage from the police cruiser. As the details continue to emerge, it is troublesome that there are still many unanswered questions regarding the circumstances of the event itself and whether there are broader concerns about the policies and practices that may have contributed to this tragedy. Among other issues, many have expressed concerns about the initial review process and why it took approximately ten months of open record requests by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel to bring them into light. The emerging details from this case are particularly concerning to members of the Milwaukee community. Any time there is a sense that the death of a citizen is related to the conduct of a police officer or public agency, the trust of the community is gravely undermined. While I commend new special investigative efforts on the ground to resolve this matter, I welcome any outside assistance you can provide so that this issue is resolved with certainty and transparency. Further, I look forward to any recommendations you might have to ensure that similar events are prevented in the future. Thank you again for your assistance in this matter and I look forward to working with you going forward. Sincerely,s/Gwen S. Moore (WI-4)Member of Congress ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.25.2012	It is my hope that each organization will use their respective award to further the overall health of those who reside in and around this great city. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grant Funding for Milwaukee Health Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), announced the release of over $400,000 in grant funding to support health care and cultural awareness in the Milwaukee area. HHS awarded $200,000 to the AIDS Resource Center of Wisconsin, $101,500 to the Community Relations-Social Development Commission, $87,000 to the Pan-African Community Association and $43,567 to the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. These funds will be used to help improve area health through services and research, as well as help to advance the economic outlook and cultural awareness of Milwaukee residents. “I am proud, once again, that Milwaukee was chosen to receive this grant funding,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “It is my hope that each organization will use their respective award to further the overall health of those who reside in and around this great city.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.24.2012	Not only is voting historically relevant, it is a critically important issue to our community. Moreover, the restrictive voting laws disproportionately affect minorities, the elderly, the young, and low-income communities. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Milwaukee, WI – On Tuesday, September 25, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) in conjunction with members of the Congressional Black Caucus will host a press conference recognizing National Voter Registration Day at 11:00am at the Milwaukee City Hall Rotunda. This press conference will seek to:• register constituents to vote;• re-register members of the community to vote;• encourage those who are unable to go to the polls, to register to vote absentee;• inform voters about suppressive laws that could affect Wisconsin voters, and;• bring awareness to voters and the media about voting rights and our fight against suppressive measures. “Immediately following the 2008 election, many states, including our home state of Wisconsin, have enacted or proposed strict voting laws that impose unfair restrictions on eligible voters across the country,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “It has been estimated that block-the-vote efforts through restrictive voting legislation could prevent as many as 5 million people from registering to vote and/or casting a ballot this election year nationwide. “My colleagues and I are fighting back because voting is a fundamental right of every American citizen. Not only is voting historically relevant, it is a critically important issue to our community. Moreover, the restrictive voting laws disproportionately affect minorities, the elderly, the young, and low-income communities. During this election year, members of the Congressional Black Caucus are doing all we can to protect voting rights and to ensure that no eligible voter is turned away from the ballot box. Our members are doing everything from speaking out vocally against restrictive state voting laws, to proposing federal legislation to maintain access to the ballot box, working with local and state elected officials and working with outside organizations to educate voters on the voting laws within their states. I cordially invite you to join me in making sure all Americans are registered on National Voter Registration Day.” WHO: Congresswoman Gwen MooreMayor Tom BarrettAlderwoman Milele CoggsAttorney James Hall- President of the NAACP, Milwaukee Branch Attorney Richard Saks- Hawks, Quindel SC, Attorneys at Law WHAT: National Voter Registration Day Press Conference WHEN: Tuesday, September 25, 201211:00AM CT WHERE: Milwaukee City Hall Rotunda200 E. Wells StreetMilwaukee, WI ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.18.2012	Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to celebrate Hispanic history and culture. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National Hispanic Heritage Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commemorating National Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15: “Hispanic Heritage Month is a time to celebrate Hispanic history and culture. We also take this time to celebrate the diversity that Latinos bring to our schools, our workforce and beyond. “As we commend and honor the many contributions Latinos have made to improve our nation, we must be mindful of the continuing struggle many in this community face. As a member of the Tri-Caucus, which consists of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I am firmly dedicated to fight for those who are marginalized in society. I was proud to support the President in his recent decision to provide temporary relief from deportation to qualifying young immigrants so that they can give back to the country where they have lived and learned. “This month and always, we must commit ourselves to expanding opportunity for everyone.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.14.2012	The Sikh-American community in Wisconsin and beyond continue to remain in my thoughts and prayers. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Passage of Resolution Condemning Sikh Temple Shooting and Offering Condolences to Victims’ Families Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement applauding the passage of a Congressional resolution, H. Res. 775, condemning the August 5th shooting that killed six innocent people at the Sikh Temple of Wisconsin in Oak Creek, WI. “The Oak Creek Sikh community continues to mourn and honor the victims who were lost in the temple shootings, and it will take a long time to heal the wounds inflicted on August 5th. Yesterday, Congress passed a resolution, cosponsored by all members of the Wisconsin Congressional delegation, condemning this senseless act of violence and extending our heartfelt condolences to the families and community of those killed and injured in this tragedy. The Sikh-American community in Wisconsin and beyond continue to remain in my thoughts and prayers.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.12.2012	My thoughts and prayers remain with the families and loved ones of those who were killed and with all American public servants as they work tirelessly around the globe on behalf of our nation. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following rocket attacks on the U.S. diplomatic facility in Benghazi, Libya resulting in the death of Ambassador Christopher Stevens, Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith and two other Americans. "I am deeply saddened to hear of the atrocious and vicious attacks which took the lives of four of our diplomats in Libya including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families and loved ones of those who were killed and with all American public servants as they work tirelessly around the globe on behalf of our nation. “As we condemn these heinous attacks, our government must work together with the governments of the region to ensure that those responsible for these deaths are brought to justice." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.11.2012	We must never forget what occurred the morning of September 11 and the great courage and unity that followed. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on the 11th Anniversary of September 11 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating the 11th anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11: “Today, we as a nation join together to remember the thousands of families, friends and loved ones whose lives were lost on that sad, tragic day 11 years ago. We also honor the heroism and courage exhibited by our first responders – law enforcement, firefighters, medical personnel and volunteers– who bravely risked their lives to help others. “In the midst of this tragedy, our American spirit remained strong. As a nation, we stood united to aid our families, friends and neighbors and ease the pain of those who were directly affected by these detestable acts of terrorism. “Today, let us embrace that spirit again as we remember those who were lost and those who sacrificed their lives to save others. Let us honor their memory by casting aside our differences and, in the tradition of this nation, joining together in remembrance. “We must never forget what occurred the morning of September 11 and the great courage and unity that followed. I join my colleagues, my constituents and all Americans as we rise up to remember the fallen.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
09.03.2012	Today and always let us continue to honor and support our American workforce. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 3, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams of Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Labor Day Milwaukee, WI – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Labor Day which is observed today. “President Obama has said ‘Since our Nation's founding, working Americans have carried us through times of challenge and uncertainty and propelled America through eras of peace and prosperity and they have long formed the backbone of our Nation's economy.’ In that same spirit we celebrate 133 years of a movement that is dedicated to the social and economic achievements of all American workers- Labor Day. “This holiday was first coined as ‘workingmen’s holiday.’ More than 100 years after the first Labor Day observance, we continue to acknowledge the contributions of workers who embody the strength, prosperity, well-being, and fighting spirit our country was founded upon. “Over the past year, the hard working people of Wisconsin demonstrated their fighting spirit by rallying against those who threatened to cut state employees’ benefits and strip unions of their collective bargaining rights. This clear attack on workers' rights sparked a labor movement that swept across the nation; restoring the long-preserved American tradition of democracy in the workplace. The fight for worker’s rights still continues. “Wisconsin’s workforce is among the best in the nation and I am proud to stand up for the workers of my home state and across this country and support initiatives that increase employment and ensure our country is on a path towards a strong economic recovery.” “Today and always let us continue to honor and support our American workforce.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookContact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Labor Day Milwaukee, WI – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Labor Day which is observed today. “President Obama has said ‘Since our Nation's founding, working Americans have carried us through times of challenge and uncertainty and propelled America through eras of peace and prosperity and they have long formed the backbone of our Nation's economy.’ In that same spirit we celebrate 133 years of a movement that is dedicated to the social and economic achievements of all American workers- Labor Day. “This holiday was first coined as ‘workingmen’s holiday.’ More than 100 years after the first Labor Day observance, we continue to acknowledge the contributions of workers who embody the strength, prosperity, well-being, and fighting spirit our country was founded upon. “Over the past year, the hard working people of Wisconsin demonstrated their fighting spirit by rallying against those who threatened to cut state employees’ benefits and strip unions of their collective bargaining rights. This clear attack on workers' rights sparked a labor movement that swept across the nation; restoring the long-preserved American tradition of democracy in the workplace. The fight for worker’s rights still continues. “Wisconsin’s workforce is among the best in the nation and I am proud to stand up for the workers of my home state and across this country and support initiatives that increase employment and ensure our country is on a path towards a strong economic recovery.” “Today and always let us continue to honor and support our American workforce.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.07.2012	As someone who faced challenges throughout my lifetime, I can say that education was a crucial component to my success. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates National Back To School Month Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing National Back to School Month which is celebrated during the month of August: “As the summer comes to an end and Milwaukee parents and students once again prepare to go back to school, it is important that we take a moment to pause and reflect on the importance of education in the lives of all Americans and recommit ourselves to the goal of providing access to quality education for all. “Education is key to providing a pathway out of poverty. A high school graduate earns $260,000 more over the course of his or her lifetime than someone who does not graduate from high school. Those who go on to college earn even more. Sadly, it is the poorest of students who are most at risk for dropping out. “As someone who faced challenges throughout my lifetime, I can say that education was a crucial component to my success. I understand the importance of education in changing life prospects and have been a longstanding supporter of legislation and funding to improve our education system. “Recently, I have worked with my colleagues, teachers and communities to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) with updates that better serve high-need and at-risk students. Like many urban schools, Milwaukee schools suffer from overcrowding and lack of resources. We must actively work to improve our education system by not only increasing funding for the neediest schools but also by providing specialized services to struggling students. I am the author of legislation that would amend ESEA to establish grant programs to help schools hire and retain social workers, and to allow Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities grants to fund dating violence prevention efforts. “From helping your child with an assignment to sitting on a school board, I urge my constituents and all Americans to make the commitment this month and always to take an active role in the education of our children. For those students old enough to be thinking about college, use this month to visit schools you may be thinking of attending, including Marquette University and UW-Milwaukee. I hope all of my constituents will take advantage of the great education system Wisconsin offers in order to better their own lives and to benefit our community.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.06.2012	We must always remember that our vote is our voice. As we celebrate the 47th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, let us not be silenced. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to fight for our vote in this election and beyond. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Voting Rights Act Anniversary Milwaukee, WI - Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in celebration of the anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. "Forty-seven years ago today, Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 into law. The goal of this law was to make voting the cornerstone of our democracy, ensuring that all Americans had access to this treasured right. This action came in the midst of the Civil Rights Movement and proved to be a great turning point in the battle for equal rights for African Americans in our country. “Almost half a century later, the fight to protect our voting rights for all Americans continues. This right is under attack across our nation, including in my home state of Wisconsin. Prior to the 2006 elections, voter identification laws did not exist in a single state. Since 2011, 41 states have introduced 176 voter restriction bills. Out of these states, 34 have introduced voter photo identification laws. This limitation is a deliberate assault on our voting rights. “Voter restrictions disproportionately impact minorities, young adults, the elderly and low-income individuals. It is estimated that up to 5 million people could be negatively affected by voter restriction laws. It is incredible that in a nation that prides itself on holding free and fair elections that this fight for voter rights even exists. “We must always remember that our vote is our voice. As we celebrate the 47th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, let us not be silenced. As a Member of Congress, I will continue to fight for our vote in this election and beyond.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.05.2012	I am deeply saddened by today's events which took the lives of these innocent members of our community. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Releases Statement on Shooting at Wisconsin Sikh Temple Milwaukee, WI - Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the shooting at a local area Sikh Temple which left seven people dead including the alleged shooter. "I am deeply saddened by today's events which took the lives of these innocent members of our community. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families of those that have lost loved ones as well as the families of those injured in this senseless act of violence. "I will continue to monitor this situation as it develops." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.03.2012	Whether gay, straight, bisexual or transgender, no one should be denied the opportunity to marry due to his or her sexual orientation or gender identity. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Supports Marriage Equality Washington, D.C. – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) received a perfect score from the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) for her support of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community and marriage equality. “Homosexual couples love no less that their heterosexual counterparts. Whether gay, straight, bisexual or transgender, no one should be denied the opportunity to marry due to his or her sexual orientation or gender identity. Despite the dissent among some in Congress, I believe that all couples should have the opportunity to marry if they so choose. “The LGBT community deserves equality under the law. It is my hope that my colleagues across both aisles will join me in supporting equality for all Americans. “As the LGBT civil rights debate continues, I will do all I can to fight for the rights of all people.” The Human Rights Campaign is America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender equality. For more information visit the HRC website. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.02.2012	This week Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to the Republican tax plan which would extend tax cuts to the very wealthiest Americans while raising taxes an average $1,000 on 25 million working families by reducing eligibility for Earned share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Supports Democratic Alternative Washington, D.C. – This week Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to the Republican tax plan which would extend tax cuts to the very wealthiest Americans while raising taxes an average $1,000 on 25 million working families by reducing eligibility for Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit and ending the American Opportunity Tax Credit. Alternatively, Rep. Moore voted for the Democratic Substitute which would extend the middle class tax cuts and prevent tax increases on working families. “It is shameful that my Republican colleagues would seek to give huge tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans on the back of the middle class and poor of this country. And though Republicans are constantly saying that we should not increase our debt, their plan would add an addition $50 billion to the deficit in 2013 alone. “In contrast, under the Democratic alternative 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses will see no tax increase. It will extend for one year expiring marginal tax rates for income as well as rates on capital gains and dividends for taxable income of $200,000 or less for single filers and $250,000 or less for joint filers. It also extends various other tax provisions, including marriage penalty relief, expanded child and earned income tax credits, education tax incentives, and small business expensing all for one year, through 2013, and a patch for the Alternative Minimum Tax for 2012. “We here in Congress are charged to work on behalf of all Americans – particularly the least of these. The priorities of the Republican tax plan only include the wealthiest Americans while the Democratic Substitute would give middle class families certainty that their taxes will not go up next year. It’s time we make those most in need a priority in order to build a strong, robust economy.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.02.2012	This moment is a great first step in shaping an immigration policy that is fair and humane to our immigrant children. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates DREAMers Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined her Democratic colleagues in celebrating DREAMers during a press conference led by Rep. Gutierrez (Il-4). Congresswoman Gwen Moore stood in strong support of the decision made by President Obama and Secretary Napolitano to spare certain young immigrants, who are eligible for the DREAM Act, from deportation. After meeting specific requirements, these immigrants will be able to apply for temporary residence and a work permit beginning August 15. “This moment is a great first step in shaping an immigration policy that is fair and humane to our immigrant children. The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that up to 1.4 million undocumented children could potentially benefit from this policy. Many of these immigrants have called this country home for most of their lives. They have been educated here, pledged allegiance to our flag and want nothing more than the opportunity to give back to their country. “I am a firm believer that children should not be punished for the illegal actions of their parents. It lacks common sense to deprive our skilled workforce of one of our bright and promising children. This is a bold step in the right direction, but there is still much more to be done. We need a permanent fix that can only be done by an act of Congress. I urge my colleagues to make this dream a permanent reality and pass the DREAM Act.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
08.01.2012	Today marks a transformative moment in history. For the first time, women will be able to receive a range of preventive health care services with no co-pay. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Women’s Preventive Care Coverage Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), released this statement celebrating the announcement that, starting today through the Affordable Care Act, health care plans will be required to provide women with free coverage of critical preventive services, at the start of their plan year: “Today marks a transformative moment in history. For the first time, women will be able to receive a range of preventive health care services with no co-pay. Every day, grandmothers, mothers, sisters and daughters put the needs of those they love above their own. From this point onward, women will have an increased ability to care for themselves in addition to caring for others. “In 2009, the Commonwealth Fund found that more than half of women either postponed needed care or avoided it altogether due to cost. This choice was a tragic reality for too many American women until today. Approximately 47 million women, including nearly one million Wisconsinites, with policies renewing today or after will now be able to receive these preventive services with no out-of-pocket charges. “The new coverage of additional services includes domestic violence screening, gestational diabetes screening and well-woman visits, as well as other key screenings. The new coverage will also allow women the opportunity to effectively plan their families by ensuring access to FDA-approved contraceptive coverage at no cost. In time, I am certain that the overall impact this decision will have for women, families and our society will be monumental. “As women across the nation celebrate their access to quality health care, there are many in Congress who are plotting to, once again, prevent women from receiving these critical services by dismantling the Affordable Care Act. Politics should never play a part when the health of our nation and our constituents are at risk. It is my hope that my colleagues across the aisle will join me in commemorating this day in history as millions of women take charge of their health.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.31.2012	These funds will prove essential to strengthening our transportation system so that we can continue to build a strong, robust economy. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $900,000 Grant for Wisconsin Department of Transportation Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the Wisconsin Department of Transportation (DOT) announced the release of $900,000 in grant funding to support transportation operation efforts in the Great Lakes region. This grant was awarded to improve passenger and freight movement within the Great Lakes area by creating an interconnected transportation system. The Wisconsin DOT supports operations from its main office in Madison as well as its regional offices throughout the state. This local approach helps the Wisconsin DOT better understand and respond to the state’s transportation needs. This funding will help advance the economic competitiveness and travel time of the Wisconsin transportation system. “Whether in a car, plane, bike, train or boat, every day people across our state rely on the effectiveness of Wisconsin’s transportation system,” said Rep. Moore. “These funds will prove essential to strengthening our transportation system so that we can continue to build a strong, robust economy.” For more information about the Wisconsin DOT visit their website. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.30.2012	We are now long overdue for real action on a comprehensive, bipartisan Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Congresswoman Gwen Moore Statement on Boehner Appointment of Violence Against Women Act Conference Committee Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), released this statement following news that Speaker John Boehner appointed eight members of the House Republican caucus to a nonexistent conference committee on the Violence Against Women Act: “We are now long overdue for real action on a comprehensive, bipartisan Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). As a champion for a strong VAWA bill, I wish I could say I applaud the Speaker for taking action, but this is merely a hollow offer unless House Republican leadership truly puts aside partisan politics and commits to passing an improved VAWA that serves all victims. “I am a strong supporter of the Senate VAWA bill, which I introduced in the House of Representatives. This legislation, which passed with solid bipartisan support in the Senate, provides critical updates to the law and offers coverage for underserved populations, such as Native American women, the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender community, and immigrant women. I urge my Republican colleagues in both the House and the Senate to dedicate themselves to passing the Violence Against Women Act that is inclusive of all victims.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.24.2012	It is my hope that this funding will help the Milwaukee Ballet remain significant in our community and inspire others through the arts. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $100,000 Grant for Milwaukee Ballet Company, Inc. Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) announced the release of $100,000 in grant funding to support the Milwaukee Ballet Company. This grant was awarded as a part of NEA’s Our Town initiative designed to promote creativity that unites communities through the arts. The Milwaukee Ballet Company will use this award to fund a new building through their Harmony Initiative project, providing additional office and performance space. “Since their first performance in 1970, the Milwaukee Ballet Company has been a powerful cultural symbol in our city,” said Rep. Moore. “It is my hope that this funding will help the Milwaukee Ballet remain significant in our community and inspire others through the arts.” For more information about the Milwaukee Ballet Company visit their website. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.23.2012	Family Care is a critical support system for people with disabilities and seniors. Family Care's long-term care services include daily support such as assistance with getting dressed, meals, transportation to work, and bathing for eligible seniors a share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) applauded the Centers for Medicare and Medicare Services (CMS) decision to renew the State of Wisconsin’s Family Care waiver agreement. Additionally, she was pleased that CMS upheld the Family Care program and determined that Governor Scott Walker’s previous attempt to restrict the program by capping enrollment is an unacceptable violation of the agreement with CMS. “Family Care is a critical support system for people with disabilities and seniors,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Family Care’s long-term care services include daily support such as assistance with getting dressed, meals, transportation to work, and bathing for eligible seniors and people with disabilities. “CMS’s action helps ensure that eligible individuals will have access to services when they need them and Scott Walker will no longer be able to jeopardize Family Care as he has done in the past.” People with questions about their rights in Family Care and IRIS or the enrollment process can contact the Disability Rights Wisconsin Family Care and IRIS Ombudsman Program at (800) 928-8778. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.20.2012	I would like to express my deep appreciation of the recent decision by the Department of Health and Human Services to allow states to apply for waivers that could grant them some flexibility in implementing their TANF programs. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds Administration Decision to Allow State Waivers for TANF Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent a letter to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius applauding the Administration’s recent executive order that will allow states to apply for waivers that could grant them some flexibility in implementing their Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) programs. The letter reads as follows: July 19, 2012 Secretary Kathleen SebeliusDepartment of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue NWWashington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Sebelius, I would like to express my deep appreciation of the recent decision by the Department of Health and Human Services to allow states to apply for waivers that could grant them some flexibility in implementing their Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) programs. Your new guidance will bolster the law and allow states to tailor their TANF programs to meet their specific needs, while making a renewed commitment to move people off welfare and into good jobs. I know that governors from both political parties, all across the nation, have requested flexibility in implementing welfare reform time and time again, and I applaud you for heeding their call. I also know that welfare recipients have been ill-served by the program, and your action on their behalf is greatly appreciated. I was once a welfare recipient and am very aware of the successes and failures of this critical safety net. I have been outspoken regarding my concerns about the TANF program, which, since its passage in 1996, has shifted the focus of welfare to a series of rules and restrictions, rather than a focus on effective job preparation and placement, though that was one of its purported goals. TANF has never taken into consideration education and training to the extent they are necessary in helping recipients gain meaningful employment. I am pleased that your waiver program could allow states to allow for education and training opportunities, which could truly expand possibilities for beneficiaries, as well as for our labor market overall. Your commitment to cutting red tape and urging states to improve their performance on helping place people into jobs, rather than just keeping them enrolled in restricted job-search activities, is laudable. I recognize that you are providing limited waiver opportunities that do not alter the employment requirements of TANF; your proposal will simply encourage states to draft plans that will quantifiably increase the number of welfare beneficiaries who find and keep a job. Given the lack of Congressional dedication to improving the TANF program through the legislative process, I am grateful that HHS chose to take steps in the right direction to ensure that TANF is an effective program. It is my sincere hope that the state of Wisconsin will apply for a TANF waiver so that the state can truly build a strong, skilled workforce. Once again, thank you for taking this action that will help fix a fundamentally broken program. I am grateful for your leadership on this issue and look forward to working together to maximize the potential of TANF to serve vulnerable populations. Sincerely, GWEN MOOREMember of Congress ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.19.2012	My thoughts and prayers remain with the families, friends, and loved ones of those killed and injured during this terrorist attack. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the recent terrorist attack on an Israeli tour bus in Bulgaria that left at least seven dead and more than 20 wounded. “My thoughts and prayers remain with the families, friends, and loved ones of those killed and injured during this terrorist attack. “The continued violence around the world against innocent men, women, and children is deplorable. We must continue to stand in support of our brothers and sisters and condemn these heinous acts that threaten our collective goal of global peace. “Let us strengthen our commitment to security and safety of Israel and the Israeli people and work to bring terrorists like these to justice. I join President Obama in condemning these acts as barbaric.” # # # For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.18.2012	This permanent injunction is another victory for the people of Wisconsin and all Americans who believe that the right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following the statement applauding the decision of Circuit Judge David Flanagan to grant a permanent injunction against Wisconsin's voter identification law. “This permanent injunction is another victory for the people of Wisconsin and all Americans who believe that the right to vote is the cornerstone of our democracy. This law - like others that have been put in place across this country - does nothing but attempt to return us to an era of Jim Crow politics. Requiring strict photo ID at the polls is nothing more than a modern day poll tax. “Our right to vote is one of the most protected rights of any that we enjoy as American citizens. The Constitution was amended five times over our nation’s history to reflect this American ideal. Therefore we must continue to fight to ensure that all Americans have access to the ballot regardless of race, economic status, or age.” Rep. Gwen Moore has been a leader on the issue of voter protection. She along with Keith Ellison (D-MN), have introduced H.R. 3316, the Voter Access Protection Act, to make it a federal law to protect the voting rights of those Americans who lack photo ID in federal elections. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
07.11.2012	I am simply amazed that my Republican colleagues are once again spending several days of our short Congressional calendar debating and attempting to repeal our health care reform law. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined nearly all of her Democratic colleagues in opposing a measure to repeal the landmark Affordable Care Act. “I am simply amazed that my Republican colleagues are once again spending several days of our short Congressional calendar debating and attempting to repeal our health care reform law. Since the GOP took the reins in the House, just 18 brief months ago, we have taken 30 votes to repeal or defund the Affordable Care Act. Today marks the 31st vote to dismantle the law. “It saddens me that my Republican colleagues would rather engage in political posturing than work together in a bipartisan manner to enact legislation that is in the best interests of the American people. Instead of taking this unproductive vote we could be working to pass a comprehensive jobs package. Instead we are here spinning our wheels, leaving the American people scratching their heads. “Wisconsinites and people across this country have already seen the benefits of the Affordable Care Act including young people being able to stay on their families’ plans until age 26, small businesses receiving tax credits to provide health coverage for their employees and the elimination of discrimination against children with pre-existing conditions. “Yet the House majority has chosen to ‘throw the baby out with the bathwater’ and repeal even those provisions that enjoy bipartisan support—seemingly just to score political points with their base. “Enough is enough. Let this be our last vote on the Affordable Care Act – a law that even our Supreme Court chose to uphold. It’s time we work together to move this country forward instead of backward by focusing on creating jobs and improving our economy.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.29.2012	I am so pleased that this Congress was able to work together to hammer out this bipartisan deal that will benefit the American people and help move this country forward. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in favor of the Transportation Conference Report. This legislation will keep highway programs running through September 2014, keep student loan rates low for another year and reauthorize the flood insurance program for five years in order to avoid lapses in the programs. Highway programs and reduced student loan rates were set to expire on June 30 and the National Flood Insurance Program was set to expire July 31. “I am so pleased that this Congress was able to work together to hammer out this bipartisan deal that will benefit the American people and help move this country forward. “I am particularly pleased that we were able to keep student loan rates at their current rate, saving 7.4 million college students from additional debt in these tough economic times. I cannot think of a better gift to give the millions of college students throughout this country as we head into the Independence Day holiday week than relief from the doubling of their loan rates. In Wisconsin alone, over 163,000 students will save an estimated $968.00 over the life of their loans. “Additionally, this bill will continue critical funding for much needed highway projects and reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program. “It is my hope that this Congress can put aside the partisan bickering, and continue to work in the best interests of the American people.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.28.2012	This vote is just another attempt by Republicans to play partisan politics and shift the focus away from their •do-nothing' Congress. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined members of the Democratic Caucus in protest of the House vote to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress by walking off the House floor during the vote. “This vote is just another attempt by Republicans to play partisan politics and shift the focus away from their ‘do-nothing’ Congress. As Members of Congress it is our duty to pass legislation that is pertinent to the American people, not engage in partisan witch hunts. These types of shenanigans only cripple our democracy. “For the past 15 months Attorney General Eric Holder and the Department of Justice have cooperated with the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s request for information on ‘Fast and Furious.’ They have gone above and beyond to provide a multitude of information including all the documents that relate to the tactics in this investigation and the other flawed investigations that occurred in Arizona during the Bush Administration. “But none of this would have mattered, since it was the Republican’s goal all along to make Attorney General Holder a pawn in their political game to smear President Obama. “Today Republicans have shown their true colors. They are in no way interested in moving this country forward and are only interested in wild goose chases that do nothing to cure the many ills that we face as a country. “I along with my Democratic colleagues remain committed to the real business of moving this country forward, not partisan game. This is why I could not, in good conscience, participate in this vote to hold Attorney General Holder in contempt.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.28.2012	Today's decision is a victory for all Americans. We can now be assured that Americans continue to receive the health care they urgently need and most definitely deserve. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled the Affordable Care Act (ACA) constitutional: “Today’s decision is a victory for all Americans. We can now be assured that Americans continue to receive the health care they urgently need and most definitely deserve. “So many in my home state of Wisconsin will benefit and are already benefitting from the ACA. They can now breathe a sigh of relief that they will continue to benefit from critical patient protections, lower costs, expanded coverage and greater accountability from the insurance industry. “While my Republican colleagues will continue their crusade to dismantle this groundbreaking legislation, it is my sincere hope that we will continue to build upon this ruling so that we can continue to put in place measures that will decrease costs, ensure service and increase access to health care. But it will take the efforts of both Republicans and Democrats. “Healthcare should be a right not a privilege for a few. Today’s ruling helps to reaffirm that belief and is a bold step forward in the right direction.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.26.2012	This month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement acknowledging Men's Health Month. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Men’s Health Month Washington, D.C. – This month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement acknowledging Men’s Health Month: “Men’s Health Month is a time to raise awareness and prevention efforts around diseases and injuries that affect men and boys. One such disease is prostate cancer. “Prostate cancer will infect one in six men in their lifetimes. African Americans fare much worse, leading both the incidence and death rates. This disease affects husbands, fathers, brothers, cousins and friends. As a nation, we must do all we can to prevent this disease and improve the overall health of men. As a Congress, we must continue to fund vital prostate cancer research. “I stand in strong support of President Obama’s health care law – the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Through the ACA, Americans can receive free preventative screenings, have coverage for pre-existing conditions and have access to many other health-related advances. Regular doctor’s visits, early treatment and preventative measures can make a huge difference in health outcomes. I urge men and boys to use June to learn more about how the ACA opens doors to leading a healthier life. “This month and every month I encourage men and boys to make their health a priority.” To read more about Men’s Health Month visit www.menshealthmonth.org. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.25.2012	Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court striking down three of the four provisions in the Arizona immigration law. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on SCOTUS Immigration Decision Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court striking down three of the four provisions in the Arizona immigration law: “I am pleased that the Supreme Court moved to strike down three of the four provisions of Arizona’s controversial immigration law. However, I remain disappointed that the Court acted to uphold the ‘show me your papers’ provision of the Arizona law. Allowing local law enforcement officers to check an individual’s immigration status will shift the focus of police resources away from community safety and create an environment where racial profiling is much more likely to occur. As co-chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, I am particularly concerned with this provision because it could make it more difficult for immigrant women, children and other victims to come forward when they are in serious danger. “Enforcement-only policies have failed in the past and will continue to fail at the expense of our future country’s civil rights, economic security and community safety. It is my hope that Congress can break through the gridlock and pass Comprehensive Immigration Reform. It is more important than ever to fix our broken immigration system in a way that is fair, humane and responsible for all.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook For Immediate ReleaseJune 25, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on SCOTUS Immigration Decision Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court striking down three of the four provisions in the Arizona immigration law: “I am pleased that the Supreme Court moved to strike down three of the four provisions of Arizona’s controversial immigration law. However, I remain disappointed that the Court acted to uphold the ‘show me your papers’ provision of the Arizona law. Allowing local law enforcement officers to check an individual’s immigration status will shift the focus of police resources away from community safety and create an environment where racial profiling is much more likely to occur. As co-chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, I am particularly concerned with this provision because it could make it more difficult for immigrant women, children and other victims to come forward when they are in serious danger. “Enforcement-only policies have failed in the past and will continue to fail at the expense of our future country’s civil rights, economic security and community safety. It is my hope that Congress can break through the gridlock and pass Comprehensive Immigration Reform. It is more important than ever to fix our broken immigration system in a way that is fair, humane and responsible for all.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.22.2012	Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), announced the release of grant funding to help juvenile offenders reintegrate into society. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grants for Juvenile Offenders Washington, D.C. – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), announced the release of grant funding to help juvenile offenders reintegrate into society. This funding is part of a $50 million grant program to 25 community-based organizations that will provide job training, education and support services to youth and young adults returning from the juvenile justice system. Milwaukee was awarded with two separate grants. The first grant will help fund a Southwest Key Program in Milwaukee entitled Project Jump Start. The second grant was awarded to the Milwaukee Area Workforce Investment Board. Project Jump Start serves juvenile offenders who are returning to high-poverty and high-crime communities and are either currently or recently released from confinement. The Milwaukee Area Workforce Investment Board specifically works with ex-offenders between the ages of 18-21 who were involved in the justice system as juveniles but were never convicted as adults. Both programs provide educational and workforce training. The Southwest Key Program grant totals nearly $5 million to be used across four cities. The Milwaukee Area Workforce Investment Board grant totals $1.5 million. “Recidivism is far too real for many ex-offenders,” said Rep. Moore. “There are many factors that contribute to a person’s criminal behavior. I support these programs that help our youth avoid becoming products of their environment. As a society, we must do what we can to help our youth break the cycle and realize that there’s more to life.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.20.2012	Today, Reps. Carolyn Maloney (NY-14), Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Marcia Fudge (OH-11) introduced a resolution (H. Res. 694) celebrating the 40th anniversary of Title IX. share: f t Contact: Jon Houston (Maloney 202.225.7944)Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (Moore 202.225.4572)LeMia Jenkins (Fudge 202.225.7032) Maloney, Moore, Fudge Celebrate 40th Anniversary of Title IX Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Carolyn Maloney (NY-14), Gwen Moore (WI-4) and Marcia Fudge (OH-11) introduced a resolution (H. Res. 694) celebrating the 40th anniversary of Title IX, the federal law banning sex discrimination in education programs that receive federal funds. “I can recall when I and my female classmates didn’t participate in sports simply because there weren’t any sports for girls to play,” said Rep. Maloney. “While Title IX has literally changed the playing field for girls and women in athletics, this landmark legislation also created opportunities for women in math, law, science, and other fields where women and girls have historically faced considerable barriers to access and involvement. That’s why I’m proud to introduce this Resolution with my colleagues to recognize the tremendous impact of Title IX and affirm the strides we must still make so that all girls and women can achieve true equality. Here’s to 40 more years of breaking down barriers and shattering glass ceilings.” “As co-chair of the bipartisan Caucus on Women’s Issues, I am proud today to stand with my colleagues to celebrate 40 years of Title IX,” said Rep. Moore. “Title IX is about more than creating opportunities for women in sports. This law was designed to be a strong and comprehensive measure that would combat all forms of gender discrimination in education. While much has been accomplished under this law we must continue to provide the necessary funding and resources to enforce Title IX to help us break down barriers and provide greater opportunities for women.” “Title IX has provided women with life-changing opportunities that include, but are not limited to, athletics,” said Rep. Fudge. “This legislation has ensured equal opportunity in educational and extra-curricular programs by prohibiting sex discrimination and addressing harassment in a meaningful way. As a result, Title IX has also fostered exposure to skills that facilitate professional advancement, like teaming while engaged in healthy competition. Since Title IX, women have been able to participate in a more equitable academic and athletic playing field. As a college athlete who lettered in three sports after passage of Title IX, I know that we have ample reason to celebrate, but understand that there is still work to be done.” Title IX serves as a vital stepping stone to creating an environment of equality for women and girls – something that must always remain a congressional priority. Since its implementation in 1972, Title IX has broken through walls of discrimination that have long stood in the way of women’s accomplishment. This landmark legislation has enabled women and girls to achieve new heights in science and math, participate in athletics, and learn in an environment free from bias and harassment. However, according to a new report released by the National Council on Women and Girls in Education, women and girls still face serious challenges to equality in education. Congress must do its part to improve enforcement and awareness of the law to truly fulfill the promise of Title IX for all students. The resolution (H. Res. 694) introduced today has 13 original cosponsors: Rep. Maloney (NY-14), Rep. Moore (WI-4), Rep. Fudge (OH-11), Delegate Holmes Norton (DC), Rep. Wilson (FL-17), Rep. Lee (CA-9), Rep. McCollum (MN-4), Rep. Richardson (CA-37), Rep. Towns (NY-10), Rep. Carnahan (MO-3), Rep. Woolsey (CA-6), Rep. McDermott (WA-7), and Rep. McGovern (MA-3). ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.19.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced a resolution that would mark June as National Family Reunification Month. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Introduces Resolution Celebrating Family Reunification Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced a resolution that would mark June as National Family Reunification Month. The resolution would honor the child welfare workers who work tirelessly to improve the outcomes of foster youth, and also reaffirm our commitment to programs that help facilitate a safe and stable reunification with a family after a child is separated from a home. “This is a very specific but extremely important aspect of federal programs that helps address the needs of the estimated 400,000 children in the foster care system. There is a consensus that removing a child from home and foster care can be an extremely traumatic event for a child. It should remain a priority to try and keep families together when it is safe to do so, and promote safe and stable reunifications with a family once a child is removed. “Over the past thirty years, there has been strong bipartisan support for federal efforts not only to reduce the number of children entering the system, but also help those children already there. Every year, successful reunification happens to hundreds of thousands of our children, and there is broad support for investments in services that accomplish this goal. “We know that we need to do a lot more in Congress to help these children. This Resolution would highlight an important part of federal efforts to improve the lives of children. I urge my colleagues to pass this Resolution and continue to make our nation’s children a priority.” Ten Members of Congress joined Rep. Moore in introducing the Resolution. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.19.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating African -American Music Appreciation Month which is recognized in June. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates African-American Music Appreciation Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating African -American Music Appreciation Month which is recognized in June. “Music is the soundtrack of our lives. It moves and inspires us in ways that cannot be described. African-American musicians have and continue to make an indelible mark on our music culture. “Black music has not only given us something to snap our fingers, bob our heads and shake our hips to, it has inspired movements, broken down barriers and provided us with a mirror into the very soul of who we are as a country. From field songs to spirituals, blues to jazz, rhythm and blues to funk, and pop to hip hop, Black music is intricately woven into the fabric of America. “This month, I join with all Americans in honoring the African-American musicians, composers, singers, and songwriters who have forever enriched our lives. “So whether it’s an album, 8-track, cassette, CD or mp3, throw on your favorite record and celebrate the rich musical heritage of African Americans in this country.” African-American Music Appreciation Month is a celebration for African-American Music every year in the month of June in the United States. It was originally started as Black Music Month by President Jimmy Carter, who on June 7, 1979, decreed that June would be the month of Black music. Since then, presidents have announced to Americans to celebrate Black Music Month. For each year of his term, President Barack Obama has announced the observance under a new title, African-American Music Appreciation Month. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.19.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined the country in celebrating Juneteenth. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Juneteenth Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined the country in celebrating Juneteenth. Juneteenth is the oldest nationally celebrated commemoration of the ending of slavery in the United States. From its Galveston, Texas origin in 1865, the observance of June 19th as the African-American Emancipation Day has spread across the United States and beyond. “Juneteenth is a time to commemorate the emancipation of African-Americans in the United States and celebrate education and achievement,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Across the country Americans join together to reflect and rejoice in the great progress that has been made in our country and renew our commitment to equality for all people as we work to form a more perfect union. “In my district - which includes the city of Milwaukee – we have long celebrated Juneteenth Day and I am proud to say that the great state of Wisconsin recognizes this important holiday across the state as our official ‘Day of Jubilee’. “I encourage all Americans to learn more about this very unique holiday that recognizes an important moment in our country’s history.” To learn more about Juneteenth visit www.juneteenth.com. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.15.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commending President Obama on his decision to protect certain young immigrants against deportation. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds President on Recent Immigration Decision Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commending President Obama on his decision to protect certain young immigrants against deportation. This decision includes young people who were brought to the United States before they turned 16, have been in the country for over five years, and pose no threat to national security. “Today the President made a strong statement to Dream Act eligible immigrants, who have graduated from a U.S. high school, earned a GED, or served in the military, by allowing them the opportunity to live without fear of deportation. “There are many young, undocumented immigrants who are proud to call America home. Most have been raised and educated here. Some have put on a uniform and defended our freedom. They all deserve a chance to work and live freely. “For far too long our broken immigration policies have needed to change. It makes no sense to deport young people, who have made positive contributions to their communities, to countries where they may never have lived or even speak the language. I am proud that the President recognized this fact and is making a step in the right direction.” To read the statement by Secretary Napolitano from the Department of Homeland Security click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.13.2012	On Friday, June 15, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) in cooperation with local organizations will host a voter ID town hall to educate her constituency on the importance of protecting voter rights. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Hosts Voter ID Town Hall Milwaukee, WI – On Friday, June 15, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) in cooperation with local organizations will host a voter ID town hall to educate her constituency on the importance of protecting voter rights. This event will feature a panel of experts who will not only discuss how voter ID laws disenfranchise voters, but will explain what our community can do to fight back. “Our right to vote, a right that those before us have fought to attain, is under attack,” said Rep. Moore. “Milwaukee would be especially affected if voter ID laws were enacted. Our vote is our voice. We must not be silenced. As a Member of Congress it is my responsibility to help protect the rights of my constituency, not dismantle them.” For more information about this town hall, please call the Milwaukee office at 414-297-1140 or visit the Facebook event page at http://on.fb.me/LMGGzw. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE FOLLOWING ORGANIZATIONS: NAACP-MilwaukeeACLU-Wisconsin Voces De La FronteraCitizen Action of Wisconsin League of Young Voters Milwaukee Area Labor CouncilWisconsin VoicesMICAHWISPIRGWisconsin Alliance for Retired AmericansAFT-Local 212 SEIUDisability Rights of WI African World Fest WHAT: Voter ID Town Hall WHEN: Friday, June 15, 2012 6:00 PM – 8:00 PM WHERE: UW-MilwaukeeStudent Union 2200 East Kenwood Blvd.Milwaukee, WI 53211 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.05.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement criticizing Senate Republicans for blocking the Paycheck Fairness Act. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Denounces Paycheck Fairness Act FailurePaycheck Fairness Act Fails in Senate (52 to 47) Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement criticizing Senate Republicans for blocking the Paycheck Fairness Act: “This failure marks another sad day in history, as Senate Republicans blocked a vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act. This bill would have helped ensure that women earn equal pay for equal work. Senate Republicans have sent a strong message to women – that addressing the wage gap is not a priority for them. “Currently women earn only 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. This discrepancy is not only harmful to women, but to families and our economy as well. As more and more families rely on women’s wages, the Paycheck Fairness Act will prove to be even more vital. “This Act would continue the great work that Democrats have been doing on the issue of equal pay. In January 2009, President Obama signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act into law – legislation that was championed by the Democratic-led 111th Congress. Although this law was a strong victory for women, it left more work to be done. “From my state of Wisconsin to the halls of the U.S. Congress, time and time again we have seen Republicans roll back the clock on women’s rights. This time, women, families and our economy hang in the balance. “I call upon my Republican colleagues – including those in the House of Representatives – to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act as soon as possible.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.05.2012	This month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joins the nation in celebrating Caribbean-American Heritage Month. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Caribbean American Heritage Month Washington, D.C. – This month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joins the nation in celebrating Caribbean-American Heritage Month. “Caribbean-American Heritage Month is a time to recognize the many contributions this group of people have made and continue to make to our history and culture,” said Rep. Moore. “The list of those individuals who have made a positive difference through the political realm, the arts, business, sports, the military and many more categories is innumerable. Whether it’s the writings of Claude McKay, the political activism of Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, the prolific acting of Cicely Tyson, or the sweet sounds of the King of Calypso Harry Belafonte, people of Caribbean descent have truly enriched the heritage of the United States. Throughout the month of June, I encourage all Americans to celebrate and learn more about the rich history of Caribbean-Americans in the United States.” Congresswoman Moore has been an advocate for Caribbean-American Month recognition for many years. In May 2005, she cosponsored H. Con. Res. 71, which recognized the significance of Caribbean people and their descendants in the history and culture of the United States. This resolution passed the House of Representatives that next month. On February 14, 2006, the resolution similarly passed the Senate, culminating a two-year, bipartisan and bicameral effort. Since the resolution’s passage, the White House has issued an annual proclamation recognizing June as Caribbean-American Heritage Month. Last year, Congresswoman Moore also became an original cosponsor of a resolution that would recognize the significance of National Caribbean-American Heritage Month. To learn more about Caribbean-American Heritage Month and how to get involved visit www.caribbeanamericanmonth.org. To read the presidential proclamation officially recognizing this month visit www.whitehouse.gov. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
06.04.2012	This month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in recognition of Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates LGBT Pride Month Washington, D.C. – This month, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in recognition of Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender (LGBT) Pride Month: “Every June we celebrate LGBT Pride Month to commemorate the success we have had in securing equal rights for LGBT Americans while recognizing that there is much more work to be done. “The Stonewall riots, an event largely regarded as the birth of the modern LGBT movement for civil rights in the United States, occurred 43 years ago. Since that time, laws like the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act and Don’t Ask Don’t Tell Repeal were passed, marking the great advances that have been made towards ensuring the LGBT community is afforded equal rights. “But, despite this success, more work needs to be done. “That’s why organizations like the Milwaukee LGBT Community Center and the LGBT Resource Center at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee are so important for promoting civil rights and responding to the unique needs of the LGBT community. “This June, I encourage everyone to celebrate the LGBT community. Click to watch this video on why I am proud to support LGBT Pride Month and our American diversity.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.31.2012	Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted "no" on the so-called Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act (PRENDA). This bill did not receive the two-thirds vote necessary to pass. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Opposes the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted “no” on the so-called Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act (PRENDA). This bill did not receive the two-thirds vote necessary to pass. "Though I am pleased that Members of the House were able to come together to thwart another attack on women’s health, I am once again in disbelief that this type of bill has come to the floor. These bills that distort the truth in order to advance the Republican agenda must come to an end. They are chipping away at Roe v. Wade until we have an outright ban on abortion services. “PRENDA, introduced by Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-02), is yet another attempt by House Republicans to undermine women’s health. Introduced under the guise of preventing sex discrimination during abortion, this bill does nothing but further stigmatize women. “Rather than addressing this issue through education, or by addressing the economic, social and cultural roots of sex inequality—as all the experts recommend, across the board, on an international scale—this bill would simply criminalize the practice. There is no doubt that this bill would lead to racial profiling in doctors’ offices, particularly against Asian American women in need of abortion services. “Ultimately, the goal of this bill is to restrict access to safe, legal reproductive health care. As Members of Congress is it our responsibility to help protect the health of our constituents, not attack it. I am pleased that today Members from both parties were finally able to come together to defend women’s health.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Like Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Opposes the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted “no” on the so-called Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act (PRENDA). This bill did not receive the two-thirds vote necessary to pass. "Though I am pleased that Members of the House were able to come together to thwart another attack on women’s health, I am once again in disbelief that this type of bill has come to the floor. These bills that distort the truth in order to advance the Republican agenda must come to an end. They are chipping away at Roe v. Wade until we have an outright ban on abortion services. “PRENDA, introduced by Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-02), is yet another attempt by House Republicans to undermine women’s health. Introduced under the guise of preventing sex discrimination during abortion, this bill does nothing but further stigmatize women. “Rather than addressing this issue through education, or by addressing the economic, social and cultural roots of sex inequality—as all the experts recommend, across the board, on an international scale—this bill would simply criminalize the practice. There is no doubt that this bill would lead to racial profiling in doctors’ offices, particularly against Asian American women in need of abortion services. “Ultimately, the goal of this bill is to restrict access to safe, legal reproductive health care. As Members of Congress is it our responsibility to help protect the health of our constituents, not attack it. I am pleased that today Members from both parties were finally able to come together to defend women’s health.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.25.2012	Elected officials must be held to the highest standards, therefore Governor Walker must be held accountable for his words and actions. If he was not fully truthful while testifying before Congress he must answer to the American people and in particular, Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds Oversight Committee Dems for Investigation of Conflicts in Walker Testimony Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement following news that Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Committee Members Gerald Connolly and Chris Murphy sent a letter to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker seeking answers to questions about his 2011 testimony before the Committee in light of a new videotape that appears to contradict his statements. Despite testifying under oath that he never “had a conversation with respect to [his] actions in Wisconsin and using them to punish members of the opposition party and their donor base,” a newly uncovered video taken three months earlier shows Walker explaining to one of his biggest financial donors that he plans to use a “divide and conquer” strategy against public sector workers in order to turn Wisconsin into a “completely red state.” “The conflicts in Governor Scott Walker’s testimony highlighted by Members of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and others certainly raise serious concerns as to whether or not he was being truthful when testifying before the Committee,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Elected officials must be held to the highest standards, therefore Governor Walker must be held accountable for his words and actions. If he was not fully truthful while testifying before Congress he must answer to the American people and in particular, the people of Wisconsin. “I applaud the Committee’s Ranking member Elijah E. Cummings and Committee Members Gerald Connolly and Chris Murphy for their diligence in looking into this matter. I would urge an immediate and direct response by both Committee Chair Darrell Issa and Governor Scott Walker to their inquiry.” To read the release from House Oversight and Government Reform Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings and the letters sent to Governor Scott Walker and Committee Chairman Darrell Issa click here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.25.2012	As we celebrate this Memorial Day, let us remember to focus on the true meaning of this holiday – the many brave men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country so that we might continue to enjoy the freedoms we hold so dear. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Memorial Day Milwaukee, WI – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day, observed on Monday, May 28, 2012. "As we celebrate this Memorial Day, let us remember to focus on the true meaning of this holiday – the many brave men and women who made the ultimate sacrifice for our country so that we might continue to enjoy the freedoms we hold so dear. “Our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the families who have lost loved ones and we pray that our service men and women in Afghanistan and around the globe who are still in harm’s way will return to the loving arms of their families. "Our troops, veterans and the families of those who have given their lives in defense of our country deserve the gratitude, respect and support of the American people and their government. I will continue to work to ensure that they remain a top priority as we move forward with our agenda in Congress." ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.25.2012	Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), announced the release of over $1.2 million in grant funding for Word of Hope Ministries. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $1.2 Million Grant for Word of Hope MinistriesFunding to Help Former Offenders Reintegrate into Society Washington, D.C. – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), announced the release of over $1.2 million in grant funding for Word of Hope Ministries. This grant is part of the fifth generation of Reintegration of Ex-Offender (RExO) program. These grants were given to 18 non-profit organizations to serve adult ex-offenders returning from incarceration to high-poverty and high-crime communities. Through this funding, Word of Hope Ministries will be able to help recently released prisoners reintegrate into society. The RExO program will help participants gain employment skills through workforce development and career center services. The program will also provide additional support through correction agent involvement and by providing participants with a mentor. “This funding will help recently released offenders gain the knowledge and support needed for employment and retention,” said Rep. Moore. “In our broken incarceration system, recidivism occurs far too often. It is my hope that this grant will offer ex-offenders an alternate and more productive path.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Like Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $1.2 Million Grant for Word of Hope MinistriesFunding to Help Former Offenders Reintegrate into Society Washington, D.C. – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), announced the release of over $1.2 million in grant funding for Word of Hope Ministries. This grant is part of the fifth generation of Reintegration of Ex-Offender (RExO) program. These grants were given to 18 non-profit organizations to serve adult ex-offenders returning from incarceration to high-poverty and high-crime communities. Through this funding, Word of Hope Ministries will be able to help recently released prisoners reintegrate into society. The RExO program will help participants gain employment skills through workforce development and career center services. The program will also provide additional support through correction agent involvement and by providing participants with a mentor. “This funding will help recently released offenders gain the knowledge and support needed for employment and retention,” said Rep. Moore. “In our broken incarceration system, recidivism occurs far too often. It is my hope that this grant will offer ex-offenders an alternate and more productive path.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.25.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Older Americans Month. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Older Americans Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Older Americans Month: “Older Americans Month is a time to celebrate and honor the older adults who have helped to make our communities and our nation a better place. “This year’s theme, ‘Never Too Old to Play,’ encourages older Americans to stay engaged, active and involved in their own lives and in their communities. “The contributions that older Americans make to improve our lives are endless. Among many other roles, they mentor our youth, volunteer in our communities and inspire us to give our time and commitment to others. This year, I will be honoring five older adults: David Hoffman, Mike Bogdonovich, Audrey Hemmer, Kathleen Brockman and Mary Ann Ganny at the Senior Citizen Hall of Fame. Established in 1997, the Hall of Fame honors five outstanding seniors in Milwaukee County who have served the community as volunteers and as advocates on behalf of the elderly. “These individuals have made a significant impact on the residents of Milwaukee County and have truly exemplified the importance of community involvement during the ‘golden years.’” To find out more about how to celebrate Older Americans Month and honor the older Americans in your life visit http://www.olderamericansmonth.aoa.gov/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookContact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Older Americans Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Older Americans Month: “Older Americans Month is a time to celebrate and honor the older adults who have helped to make our communities and our nation a better place. “This year’s theme, ‘Never Too Old to Play,’ encourages older Americans to stay engaged, active and involved in their own lives and in their communities. “The contributions that older Americans make to improve our lives are endless. Among many other roles, they mentor our youth, volunteer in our communities and inspire us to give our time and commitment to others. This year, I will be honoring five older adults: David Hoffman, Mike Bogdonovich, Audrey Hemmer, Kathleen Brockman and Mary Ann Ganny at the Senior Citizen Hall of Fame. Established in 1997, the Hall of Fame honors five outstanding seniors in Milwaukee County who have served the community as volunteers and as advocates on behalf of the elderly. “These individuals have made a significant impact on the residents of Milwaukee County and have truly exemplified the importance of community involvement during the ‘golden years.’” To find out more about how to celebrate Older Americans Month and honor the older Americans in your life visit http://www.olderamericansmonth.aoa.gov/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.22.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement acknowledging National Foster Care Month which is recognized during the month of May. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates National Foster Care Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement acknowledging National Foster Care Month which is recognized during the month of May: “National Foster Care Month is a time to reflect on how to improve the well-being of more than 400,000 children and youth who are currently in the foster care system. “Removing a child from a home and placing him or her in foster care can be a serious and traumatic event in the child’s life. For over a decade, there has been strong bipartisan support for initiatives that prevent unnecessary removals and incentivize solutions that keep families together when possible. However, the majority of federal dollars are still spent towards the administrative costs of running the system, and a lot more still needs to be done. “In February, I introduced H.R. 3873, the Enhancing the Quality of Parental Representation Act of 2012. This bill would take important steps towards ensuring that parents have access to legal representation at all stages of a child welfare case. When the interest of a child and a family is at stake, it is important that all parties have the ability to be effectively heard in court. “High-quality counsel helps parents navigate necessary services to avoid child placement, increase the chance of family reunification later down the road and allows parents to have someone who is ‘on their side.’ Several state initiatives have seen tremendous success when providing legal counsel to parents. Expanding these types of services across the country is a very important investment in the lives of our future generations. “I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation. As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to protect children by helping to unify their families.” Current supporters of H.R. 3873 include the following: American Bar Association; The Center for Family Representation, Inc.; CLASP; First Focus Campaign for Children; Representative Carolyn Maloney; and Representative Charles Rangel. To find out more about National Foster Care Month visit http://www.fostercaremonth.org. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates National Foster Care Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement acknowledging National Foster Care Month which is recognized during the month of May: “National Foster Care Month is a time to reflect on how to improve the well-being of more than 400,000 children and youth who are currently in the foster care system. “Removing a child from a home and placing him or her in foster care can be a serious and traumatic event in the child’s life. For over a decade, there has been strong bipartisan support for initiatives that prevent unnecessary removals and incentivize solutions that keep families together when possible. However, the majority of federal dollars are still spent towards the administrative costs of running the system, and a lot more still needs to be done. “In February, I introduced H.R. 3873, the Enhancing the Quality of Parental Representation Act of 2012. This bill would take important steps towards ensuring that parents have access to legal representation at all stages of a child welfare case. When the interest of a child and a family is at stake, it is important that all parties have the ability to be effectively heard in court. “High-quality counsel helps parents navigate necessary services to avoid child placement, increase the chance of family reunification later down the road and allows parents to have someone who is ‘on their side.’ Several state initiatives have seen tremendous success when providing legal counsel to parents. Expanding these types of services across the country is a very important investment in the lives of our future generations. “I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation. As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to protect children by helping to unify their families.” Current supporters of H.R. 3873 include the following: American Bar Association; The Center for Family Representation, Inc.; CLASP; First Focus Campaign for Children; Representative Carolyn Maloney; and Representative Charles Rangel. To find out more about National Foster Care Month visit http://www.fostercaremonth.org. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.17.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the release of nearly $760,000 in grant funding for Metropolitan Milwaukee Fair Housing Council. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces Grants for Milwaukee Area Fair Housing Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the release of nearly $760,000 in grant funding for Metropolitan Milwaukee Fair Housing Council. The funds will help those who have been victims of housing discrimination by educating Milwaukee area residents on their fair housing rights as well as helping residents receive equal access to housing. These funds will also educate housing providers about their fair housing responsibilities. “It is important to recognize that housing discrimination is a real and pervasive problem in our communities,” said Rep. Moore. “This funding is critical to helping those in my district obtain fair and equal housing opportunities.” The competitive grants are funded through HUD’s Fair Housing Initiatives Program, and are part of nearly $41.18 million distributed nationwide to 99 fair housing organizations and other non-profit agencies in 35 states and the District of Columbia. These grants will help Metropolitan Milwaukee Fair Housing Council continue to promote fair housing throughout the State of Wisconsin by combating illegal housing discrimination and by creating and maintaining racially and economically integrated housing patterns. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.16.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after voting in opposition to the House Republican version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Votes “NO” on Fake VAWA The Violence Against Women Act Passes (222/205) Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after voting in opposition to the House Republican version of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): “Today was a sad day in the House. The traditionally bipartisan Violence Against Women Act was passed today on party lines with a vote of 222 to 205. This legislation, H.R. 4970 is detrimental for women. This fake VAWA bill not only rolls back current provisions to help victims of domestic violence, it completely ignores groups of women. Under the Republican bill, gay and transgender women, women on tribal lands and immigrants are left unprotected. “This partisan gimmick is not what VAWA is meant to accomplish. We must protect all women with this legislation. The Republican bill sends a powerful message to these groups of women: that they are not the real victims of domestic violence. Yet I guarantee that all women feel the force of a fist. “This is not a game. It wasn’t a game when I was being abused, and it’s not a game now. Yet Republicans continue to play with women’s lives. We have a VAWA reauthorization with both Republican and Democratic support in the Senate. This bill strengthens VAWA to protect all women from domestic violence, including those ignored by House Republicans. Tragically, once again this session, House Republicans are persistent in their war on women – a war that will ultimately end in more abuse. “Today, House Republicans acted along their skewed party line – hurting women in the process. While Republicans continue to fight for their backwards ideology, I and my Democratic colleagues will continue to fight for women.” There are over 325 organizations that officially oppose the Republican VAWA. President Obama has also issued a veto threat for this legislation. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.14.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing National Women's Health Week. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National Women’s Health Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing National Women’s Health Week: “National Women’s Health Week is a time for women to take charge of their well-being. As a woman, I understand how we often neglect our own health while caring for our families and others in our community. A goal of National Women’s Health Week is to help us find the balance in our lives so that we can learn to care for others as well as ourselves. “This year’s theme is ‘It’s Your Time,’ encouraging women to make health a top priority and take proactive steps towards improving our health and decreasing risk for disease. Simple actions like eating healthy, exercising and regularly visiting with a physician can help us take control of our health. “The Affordable Care Act also takes steps towards improving women’s health. Thanks to this health care reform law, women can now have mammograms and cervical cancer screenings, among other preventative services, without paying a deductible. I am thankful to President Obama for his commitment to women’s health. “In order to improve the lives of our families and communities, we must first improve our health. I encourage all women to use this week as a first step toward improving their health.” National Women’s Health Week will be celebrated from May 13th until May 19th. To learn more about this week visit http://www.womenshealth.gov/whw/. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National Women’s Health Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing National Women’s Health Week: “National Women’s Health Week is a time for women to take charge of their well-being. As a woman, I understand how we often neglect our own health while caring for our families and others in our community. A goal of National Women’s Health Week is to help us find the balance in our lives so that we can learn to care for others as well as ourselves. “This year’s theme is ‘It’s Your Time,’ encouraging women to make health a top priority and take proactive steps towards improving our health and decreasing risk for disease. Simple actions like eating healthy, exercising and regularly visiting with a physician can help us take control of our health. “The Affordable Care Act also takes steps towards improving women’s health. Thanks to this health care reform law, women can now have mammograms and cervical cancer screenings, among other preventative services, without paying a deductible. I am thankful to President Obama for his commitment to women’s health. “In order to improve the lives of our families and communities, we must first improve our health. I encourage all women to use this week as a first step toward improving their health.” National Women’s Health Week will be celebrated from May 13th until May 19th. To learn more about this week visit http://www.womenshealth.gov/whw/. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.09.2012	I applaud the Democratic members of the Wisconsin legislature for taking action to determine the fate of one of our state's key programs for seniors and people with disabilities - Family Care. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds Wisconsin Democratic Lawmakers Work to Save Family Care Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement applauding Wisconsin Democratic lawmakers who are working to save the State’s Family Care program: “I applaud the Democratic members of the Wisconsin legislature for taking action to determine the fate of one of our state's key programs for seniors and people with disabilities - Family Care. “Family Care has and continues to be a critical resource in the state, providing much needed support to elderly and disabled Wisconsinites. “It is clear that we are hearing opposing stories from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Governor Scott Walker's administration regarding the status of funding for Family Care. This is a serious situation and one that cannot be casually dismissed. “I urge Wisconsin Health Services Secretary Dennis Smith to meet with these legislators and fully explain the situation regarding Family Care. “My office will continue to work with CMS to find a resolution on this issue that is in the best interests of the people of Wisconsin.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.07.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing Teacher Appreciation Week. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Teacher Appreciation Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing Teacher Appreciation Week: “Teacher Appreciation Week is a time to celebrate the many teachers who have made a positive impact in our lives. Every day, teachers inspire us to be productive citizens, life-long learners and to simply be the best that we can be. “I grew up in a time before James Brown sang about Black pride. I often struggled with the prejudices and stigmas that society often associated with being born a Black American in the fifties and sixties. Jake Beason, my Black History teacher, helped me overcome my shame of being Black and the legacy of slavery, instilling in me a strong self-esteem and self-worth. “There were many more teachers who had a profound impact in my life. Arlene Skwierawski, Sarah Grant, Jenelle Elder-Green, Robert Harris and Kristy Frank are all teachers who have helped mold me into the person I am today. These people are not only great educators in the classroom, but taught me valuable lessons throughout my life. “My first and most important teacher was my mother, Beatrice Lee, who was an educator for the Milwaukee Public Schools. Although she never taught me in a classroom, I learned so much of life’s lessons from her. I am better because of my mother and those educators who helped shape my life. I am eternally grateful to them. “Teachers often face great obstacles in educating our students. Over the past years schools and teachers have been confronted with budget cuts, teacher layoffs, increased class sizes and poverty. Yet, they continually overcome these challenges and strive to make a positive difference in our lives. ”I challenge all of us to use this week and every week to let our teachers know they are valued. I encourage students everywhere to thank teachers for the many contributions they have made to improve our learning and our lives.” This year, Teacher Appreciation Week will be celebrated from May 7th until May 11th. To help spread the word about this week, tweet using the hashtag #thankateacher. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore and Like Gwen Moore on Facebook Like Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates Teacher Appreciation Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing Teacher Appreciation Week: “Teacher Appreciation Week is a time to celebrate the many teachers who have made a positive impact in our lives. Every day, teachers inspire us to be productive citizens, life-long learners and to simply be the best that we can be. “I grew up in a time before James Brown sang about Black pride. I often struggled with the prejudices and stigmas that society often associated with being born a Black American in the fifties and sixties. Jake Beason, my Black History teacher, helped me overcome my shame of being Black and the legacy of slavery, instilling in me a strong self-esteem and self-worth. “There were many more teachers who had a profound impact in my life. Arlene Skwierawski, Sarah Grant, Jenelle Elder-Green, Robert Harris and Kristy Frank are all teachers who have helped mold me into the person I am today. These people are not only great educators in the classroom, but taught me valuable lessons throughout my life. “My first and most important teacher was my mother, Beatrice Lee, who was an educator for the Milwaukee Public Schools. Although she never taught me in a classroom, I learned so much of life’s lessons from her. I am better because of my mother and those educators who helped shape my life. I am eternally grateful to them. “Teachers often face great obstacles in educating our students. Over the past years schools and teachers have been confronted with budget cuts, teacher layoffs, increased class sizes and poverty. Yet, they continually overcome these challenges and strive to make a positive difference in our lives. ”I challenge all of us to use this week and every week to let our teachers know they are valued. I encourage students everywhere to thank teachers for the many contributions they have made to improve our learning and our lives.” This year, Teacher Appreciation Week will be celebrated from May 7th until May 11th. To help spread the word about this week, tweet using the hashtag #thankateacher. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.05.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Cinco de Mayo. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Cinco de Mayo Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Cinco de Mayo: “Cinco de Mayo recognizes Mexico’s remarkable defense against foreign intervention, a feat marked by great courage, sacrifice, and devotion to the right of self-determination. The day represents more than a single battle at the City of Puebla, where, many years ago, Mexican forces defeated a far more advanced and well-equipped military force. “For Americans, the holiday has come to symbolize the rich and diverse experience of Mexicans and Mexican-Americans. It is a day where we celebrate the rich and varied contributions of Americans of Mexican ancestry to the history, culture, and progress of the United States. “Hispanics are the fastest-growing minority group in the United States. They are the largest minority-owned business community—with 1.6 million businesses generating annual revenues of more than $221 billion. Their entrepreneurial energy is vital to the Hispanic community in both Milwaukee and the American economy at-large. Their contributions have helped our economy grow stronger and made our culture more vibrant. “So today, let us come together to celebrate Cinco de Mayo and honor the values, traditions, and contributions of the Mexican culture. “Viva el Cinco de Mayo, viva la communidad Latina!” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.01.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month which will be recognized through the entire month of May. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Jewish American Heritage Month Washington, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month which will be recognized through the entire month of May: "Jewish American Heritage Month provides us with an opportunity to reflect on all of the diverse ways in which American Jews have enriched our culture and enhanced our way of life. "Since 1654, when twenty-three Jews sailed into New Amsterdam seeking religious freedom, the American Jewish community has strengthened our country and helped to shape our way of life. "Their contributions in science, public service, law, medicine, athletics, literature and countless other fields has enriched our nation and enhanced our culture. Additionally, the strong bonds of family and community within the Jewish Community have both strengthened and enhanced Jewish Communities and Non-Jewish Communities throughout our nation. “I am proud to celebrate Jewish American Heritage of those with history in my district and throughout America. Golda Meir, whose family settled in Milwaukee, was one of the most influential advocates for Jewish rights and relations. She was the fourth prime minister of Israel. "Throughout the month of May and beyond I encourage all people, in my district and across this country, to learn about the many and varied contributions of Jewish Americans to the growth and betterment of our nation.” Jewish American Heritage Month has been officially recognized since 2006. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.01.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month which is celebrated during the month of May. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates Asian Pacific American Heritage Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month which is celebrated during the month of May: “Asian Pacific American Heritage Week was first established in 1978 through a joint congressional resolution. The first 10 days of May were chosen to coincide with two key anniversaries - the arrival in the U.S. of the first Japanese immigrants on May 7, 1843 and the completion of the transcontinental railroad on May 10, 1869. Fourteen years later, Congress expanded the week to a month-long celebration. “Today, I am proud to join with all Americans in celebrating the tremendous contributions the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community has made to this country. The AAPI community is the fastest-growing minority group in the United States. The Census Bureau estimates that by 2050 more than 33.4 million Asian Americans will live in the United States. “My district is home to many Hmong refugees. In fact, over 28 percent of Wisconsin's total Hmong population resides in Milwaukee County. The Hmong population continues to be an essential part of the Milwaukee community. “As we celebrate Asian Pacific American Heritage Month, I encourage the people of my district and this nation to learn about the rich and proud heritage of Asian Pacific Americans.” Asian Pacific American Heritage Month was officially recognized in 1992. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
05.01.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) announced the release of over $12.3 million in grant fundi share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $12.3 Million Grants for Milwaukee Health, Transit and Art Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) announced the release of over $12.3 million in grant funding to support health care for the homeless, Milwaukee transportation and creative industries. HHS awarded $5 million to Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. (PCHC). PCHC offers essential primary medical care and dental services to vulnerable populations throughout the Greater Milwaukee area. These funds, made available through the Affordable Care Act, will enable PCHC to double their patients served. HHS also awarded over $300,000 to Outreach Community Health Centers, formally Health Care for the Homeless of Milwaukee. This grant funding will be used to continue their efforts in providing quality care and supportive services to Milwaukee’s homeless population. DOT awarded $7 million to the Milwaukee County Transit System to purchase 21 replacement buses. This award will further facilitate travel within Milwaukee. NEA awarded $15,000 and $10,000 to Creative Alliance Milwaukee Inc. and Woodland Pattern, Inc. respectively. These funds will help support creativity through the arts in Milwaukee. “I am proud that the fourth district was chosen for these grant awards,” said Rep. Moore. “These funds will help to further improve the great city of Milwaukee socially, economically and creatively.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $12.3 Million Grants for Milwaukee Health, Transit and Art Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) announced the release of over $12.3 million in grant funding to support health care for the homeless, Milwaukee transportation and creative industries. HHS awarded $5 million to Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. (PCHC). PCHC offers essential primary medical care and dental services to vulnerable populations throughout the Greater Milwaukee area. These funds, made available through the Affordable Care Act, will enable PCHC to double their patients served. HHS also awarded over $300,000 to Outreach Community Health Centers, formally Health Care for the Homeless of Milwaukee. This grant funding will be used to continue their efforts in providing quality care and supportive services to Milwaukee’s homeless population. DOT awarded $7 million to the Milwaukee County Transit System to purchase 21 replacement buses. This award will further facilitate travel within Milwaukee. NEA awarded $15,000 and $10,000 to Creative Alliance Milwaukee Inc. and Woodland Pattern, Inc. respectively. These funds will help support creativity through the arts in Milwaukee. “I am proud that the fourth district was chosen for these grant awards,” said Rep. Moore. “These funds will help to further improve the great city of Milwaukee socially, economically and creatively.” ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.30.2012	On Thursday, May 3, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host a press conference urging her Republican colleagues to stop the potential doubling of student loan rates on July 1st of this year. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore to Host Press Conference to Call for Stop to Doubling of Student Loan Rates Milwaukee, WI – On Thursday, May 3, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host a press conference urging her Republican colleagues to stop the potential doubling of student loan rates on July 1st of this year. Unless Congress acts, on July 1, the interest rate on need-based student loans will double – rising to 6.8 percent. This would raise costs for more than 7 million students. The House Republican budget, which they passed March 29, allowed the interest rate to rise to 6.8 percent. Congressional inaction will result in passing $6.3 billion in additional repayment costs onto students for the coming school year – with the typical student borrower paying $1,000 in additional costs. On April 27, House Republicans played political games with this critical issue – passing a partisan bill that blocks the increase but pays for it by undermining the health of America’s women and children. This partisan bill does not give students needed relief; instead it has drawn a veto threat from the President. By contrast, House Democrats have a bill that blocks the increase but pays for it by eliminating billions of dollars in tax subsidies to Big Oil. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4)Dr. Michael Rosen, President of Local 212, AFTLocal Students WHAT: Press Conference on Student Loan Rates WHEN: Thursday, May 3, 201211:30 AM WHERE: Milwaukee Area Technical CollegeStudent Services Building (S Building)Atrium700 West State Street(Enter through the main doors on State Street) ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.30.2012	This weekend, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) hosted the annual Congressional Art Competition reception in Milwaukee and announced the student winner. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Hosts Congressional Art Competition Reception Milwaukee, WI – This weekend, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) hosted the annual Congressional Art Competition reception in Milwaukee and announced the student winner. Every year, student artwork from throughout the country is showcased in the US Capitol. The pieces represent student work from across the nation – the ideas displayed in the artwork as diverse as the artists. “There is an incredible amount of talent within Milwaukee area schools,” said Rep. Moore. “I was proud to not only honor the winner but recognize the many gifted students who submitted their artwork.” This competition is an amazing opportunity for students to showcase their artistic ability. In addition to having her artwork displayed in our nation’s capitol building, the winner was awarded with a certificate and may also be eligible for a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. The top five winners received a prize of nominal value, and all participants were recognized for their artistic efforts. The winner and a legal guardian were provided with two (2) roundtrip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to facilitate transportation to and from Washington, DC. “The 2012 Congressional Art Competition is an exciting prospect for students who are artistically gifted,” said Rep. Moore. “This year’s winners in place order are as follows: Brittny Plizka (South Milwaukee High School), Amy Moy (Rufus King IB High School), Coty Weathersby (Rufus King IB High School), Taylor Krutina (Pius XI High School) and Meghan Sovey (Rufus King IB High School). These outstanding artists have truly exemplified the amazing talent that resides in Milwaukee.” Since the Competition’s founding in 1982 an estimated 690,000 students have entered artwork in district competitions in all fifty states and most territories. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.26.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the passage of the Violence Against Women Act in the Senate. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds Senate Passage of Violence Against Women Act Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the passage of the Violence Against Women Act in the Senate: “I applaud my Senate colleagues for taking a bold stance for women by passing a bipartisan Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization bill that contains provisions to strengthen our ability to combat not only domestic violence, but also sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking. This legislation contains several critical updates that reflect the input of numerous stakeholders and will pave the way forward for VAWA’s passage here in the House. These updates strengthen the bill’s commitment to protecting all victims of violence, without exceptions—whatever their gender or orientation, whether they are citizens or non-citizens, and whether they reside in sovereign territories or in states. “VAWA programs and protections have reduced domestic violence by 60 percent since the date the law was enacted. I urge my Republican colleagues to work together with House Democrats to craft a truly bipartisan update of the Violence Against Women Act. The time has come for action, and women can’t wait.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.26.2012	On Saturday, April 28, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host the annual Congressional Art Competition reception in Milwaukee and announce the student winner. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Hosts Congressional Art CompetitionRep. Moore will Host Reception for Winning Student Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, April 28, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host the annual Congressional Art Competition reception in Milwaukee and announce the student winner. Every year, student artwork from throughout the country is showcased in the US Capitol. The pieces represent student work from across the nation – the ideas displayed in the artwork as diverse as the artists. “There is an incredible amount of talent within Milwaukee area schools,” said Rep. Moore. “I am proud to not only honor the winner but recognize the many gifted students who submitted their artwork.” The 2012 Congressional Art Competition is an exciting prospect for students who are artistically gifted. This year’s winner has truly exemplified the amazing talent that resides in Milwaukee. The 2012 Congressional Art Competition Reception is free and open to the public. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) WHAT: 2012 Congressional Art Competition Reception WHEN: Saturday, April 28, 201210:30 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Chase Bank111 East Wisconsin Ave.Milwaukee, WI 53202 Since the Competition’s founding in 1982 an estimated 690,000 students have entered artwork in district competitions in all fifty states and most territories. Last year, over 400 Members of Congress participated, and it is expected that at least that many will participate again this year. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Hosts Congressional Art CompetitionRep. Moore will Host Reception for Winning Student Milwaukee, WI – On Saturday, April 28, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host the annual Congressional Art Competition reception in Milwaukee and announce the student winner. Every year, student artwork from throughout the country is showcased in the US Capitol. The pieces represent student work from across the nation – the ideas displayed in the artwork as diverse as the artists. “There is an incredible amount of talent within Milwaukee area schools,” said Rep. Moore. “I am proud to not only honor the winner but recognize the many gifted students who submitted their artwork.” The 2012 Congressional Art Competition is an exciting prospect for students who are artistically gifted. This year’s winner has truly exemplified the amazing talent that resides in Milwaukee. The 2012 Congressional Art Competition Reception is free and open to the public. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) WHAT: 2012 Congressional Art Competition Reception WHEN: Saturday, April 28, 2012 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Chase Bank 111 East Wisconsin Ave. Milwaukee, WI 53202 Since the Competition’s founding in 1982 an estimated 690,000 students have entered artwork in district competitions in all fifty states and most territories. Last year, over 400 Members of Congress participated, and it is expected that at least that many will participate again this year. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.25.2012	It is my hope that the Supreme Court will strike down this xenophobic political stunt and uphold the federal government's proper role in creating balanced laws that respect basic human dignity. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on Supreme Court Hearing of Arizona Immigration Bill Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement regarding the U.S. Supreme Court hearing on the constitutionality of Arizona’s immigration, SB 1070: “Today, the U.S. Supreme Court will take up one of the most important immigration cases in history. “The court will consider whether or not Arizona’s attempt to enforce its own interpretation of federal law is constitutional. Although the Constitution is quite clear in the federal government’s preeminent role in immigration proceedings, the implications for this case are much more far reaching. “For many, Arizona vs. United States calls into question our core values of fairness and equality that we cherish as Americans. SB 1070 is a blatant attempt to legalize and expand the same type of one-sided enforcement approach that has failed so many times in the past. By legalizing racial profiling and stretching scarce local law enforcement resources to target immigrants, SB1070 serves no purpose other than tearing harmless families apart and driving immigrants further into the shadows. I reject the notion that effective immigration enforcement comes from simply increasing fear in our communities. “It is my hope that the Supreme Court will strike down this xenophobic political stunt and uphold the federal government’s proper role in creating balanced laws that respect basic human dignity. “Additionally, I hope that Congress will give this issue the attention it deserves and come together to pass immigration reform. It is our duty as elected officials to put politics aside and work for comprehensive solutions to fix our broken immigration system.” In March, Rep. Moore signed a “friend of the court” brief in the Supreme Court’s Arizona v. United States case. The amicus curiae brief, co-signed by 67 of Rep. Moore’s House colleagues, argues that the law is unconstitutional because, as courts have held consistently, federal immigration law pre-empts any state-level standards. The brief is reviewable at http://1.usa.gov/GRBVAD. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.22.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing the 42nd anniversary of Earth Day. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Earth Day Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement recognizing the 42nd anniversary of Earth Day: “This Earth Day let us remember our responsibility as individuals, as a community and as a nation to protect these precious resources that have been entrusted to us. “It has been said time and time again that ‘we must protect our land and resources, because we only have one Earth.’ This statement still holds true. If we are to leave a clean Earth for our posterity, we must embrace the principles of environmental sustainability now. Whatever resource we misuse today, will be a resource we will not have available to use tomorrow. “I urge everyone to take positive steps towards saving our Earth. Small actions, such as turning off running water and electricity, can make a big difference. I challenge all of us to do what we can to reduce our carbon footprint and create a greener world.” Earth Day was first celebrated on April 22, 1970 after former Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson helped inspire and bring about a day to recognize our responsibility to protect this earth. To find out more about Earth Day visit http://www.earthday.org/. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.18.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement saluting President Obama for his efforts to thwart domestic violence. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds President Obama on Domestic Violence Prevention Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement saluting President Obama for his efforts to thwart domestic violence: “I have long said domestic violence is a cancer that has infected our society, crossing all ethnic, socioeconomic and party lines. Recently, I introduced the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) legislation that would strengthen the ability of the Federal Government, States, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking. Unfortunately, this piece of common-sense legislation has been pushed into partisan corners. “Thankfully, our President does not allow current VAWA debates to cloud his judgment when dealing with issues of domestic violence. Today, the President directed federal agencies to develop policies for addressing domestic violence in the federal workforce. He understands that both the effects of domestic violence and the abuse itself can follow a victim to the workplace, negatively impacting office productivity and safety. “As the nation's largest employer, and an entity that employs many low and middle-income workers who critically need workplace protections, the Federal Government should serve as a model for domestic violence response within the private sector. “The new policies offered by the President, will build on ongoing efforts of federal agencies to improve workplace safety, and outline steps employers can take to provide support and assistance to employees whose lives are affected by domestic violence. As VAWA is waiting to be reauthorized, the Obama Administration is acting now to prevent domestic violence.” Rep. Moore has been a champion for domestic violence prevention efforts throughout her lifetime. She recently spoke on the House floor about her own experiences with domestic violence. Today, she released an op-ed explaining the importance of passing the Violence Against Women Act. To read this op-ed visit www.huffingtonpost.com. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.17.2012	Closing the wage gap will not only strengthen our families, but is crucial to ensuring a strong, robust economic recovery. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Equal Pay DaySays Closing Wage Gap Crucial To Economic Recovery Washington, D.C. – On Equal Pay Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement: “As we celebrate the ideals of Equal Pay Day, we must deal with the sad reality that women continue to fight for equal footing in our society – particularly in the workplace,” said Rep. Moore. “Women still only earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by men which is completely unacceptable. Equal pay is not simply a women’s issue – it’s a family issue. Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. In typical married households, women’s incomes accounted for 36 percent of total family income in 2008, up from 29 percent in 1983.” Achieving equal pay for women has been one of the top priorities of Democrats. In January 2009, the Democratic-led 111th Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act – and it became the first bill signed into law by President Obama. This Act, a great victory for women, restores the right of women to challenge unfair pay in court – but virtually all House Republicans rejected this critical measure for women. “While the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Act was a tremendous step for women in this country, we still have a long way to go,” said Rep. Moore. “I am also fighting for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would provide a much-needed update to the 49-year-old Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. But once again, my Republican colleagues continue to stand in the way of progress for women and their families. “In my home state of Wisconsin, we see Governor Walker following the lead of Washington Republicans by rolling back the clock on equal pay. Earlier this month, he repealed Wisconsin’s Equal Pay Law, effectively making it more difficult for women to file pay discrimination suits. “It is incumbent upon all of us to ensure that all women are given equal pay for equal work. Closing the wage gap will not only strengthen our families, but is crucial to ensuring a strong, robust economic recovery. It is past time that we stop treating women as second class citizens and pay them their full worth.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookContact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Equal Pay DaySays Closing Wage Gap Crucial To Economic Recovery Washington, D.C. – On Equal Pay Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement: “As we celebrate the ideals of Equal Pay Day, we must deal with the sad reality that women continue to fight for equal footing in our society – particularly in the workplace,” said Rep. Moore. “Women still only earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by men which is completely unacceptable. Equal pay is not simply a women’s issue – it’s a family issue. Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. In typical married households, women’s incomes accounted for 36 percent of total family income in 2008, up from 29 percent in 1983.” Achieving equal pay for women has been one of the top priorities of Democrats. In January 2009, the Democratic-led 111th Congress sent to the President’s desk the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act – and it became the first bill signed into law by President Obama. This Act, a great victory for women, restores the right of women to challenge unfair pay in court – but virtually all House Republicans rejected this critical measure for women. “While the passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Act was a tremendous step for women in this country, we still have a long way to go,” said Rep. Moore. “I am also fighting for the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would provide a much-needed update to the 49-year-old Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. But once again, my Republican colleagues continue to stand in the way of progress for women and their families. “In my home state of Wisconsin, we see Governor Walker following the lead of Washington Republicans by rolling back the clock on equal pay. Earlier this month, he repealed Wisconsin’s Equal Pay Law, effectively making it more difficult for women to file pay discrimination suits. “It is incumbent upon all of us to ensure that all women are given equal pay for equal work. Closing the wage gap will not only strengthen our families, but is crucial to ensuring a strong, robust economic recovery. It is past time that we stop treating women as second class citizens and pay them their full worth.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.16.2012	Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) announced her first ever Grant Writing Forum to assist constituents with grant writing and research. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore To Host Grant Writing Forum Milwaukee, WI – Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) announced her first ever Grant Writing Forum to assist constituents with grant writing and research. “As a Member of Congress, it is one of my responsibilities to ensure my constituents understand the grant research, writing and approval process,” said Rep. Moore. “I am pleased to help provide the fourth district with this much-needed knowledge.” This forum will explain the overall grant process as well as how to compile a winning grant proposal package based in research. Please contact the Office of Congresswoman Gwen Moore at her Milwaukee location if you have questions regarding the Grant Writing Forum at 414-297-1140. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4)Independence First US Dept of Health and Human ServicesHousing Authority, City of Milwaukee Voces de La Frontera Jericho Resources, Inc. WHAT: 2012 Grant Writing Forum WHEN: Thursday, May 3, 20129:00 AM – 12:00 PM WHERE: Independence First540 South 1st Street, Conference RoomMilwaukee, WI 53204 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.16.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement criticizing companies that avoid their tax obligations by shifting money to offshore accounts. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Moore Statement on Offshore Tax Havens Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement criticizing companies that avoid their tax obligations by shifting money to offshore accounts. “Tax day is fast approaching, and once again the wealthiest among us are skirting their tax responsibilities. The Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group (WISPIRG) released a new study that found the average Wisconsin taxpayer in 2011 would have to shoulder an extra $372 tax burden to make up for revenue lost from corporations and wealthy individuals shifting income to offshore tax havens. The report additionally found that the average additional tax burden shouldered by Wisconsin small businesses added up to $2,165 due to the ‘offshoring’ of profits by large corporations. “Every year, corporations and wealthy individuals avoid paying an estimated $100 billion in taxes by shifting income to low or no tax offshore tax havens. Of that $100 billion, $60 billion in taxes are avoided specifically by corporations. A GAO study found that at least 83 of the top 100 publicly traded corporations use offshore tax havens. “While corporations are saving billions of dollars in taxes, average Americans and small businesses are forced to pay the difference. Once again, the rich are getting richer on the backs of everyone else. “Last year, I cosponsored the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, H.R. 2669. This Act would take measures to thwart offshore tax havens and abusive tax shelters that avoid Federal taxation. It is my hope that this legislation helps billion dollar corporations pay their fair share. “I applaud WISPIRG for their research on the negative effect of offshore tax havens. It is not and should never be our responsibility to pay the taxes of the wealthy.” WISPIRG, the Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group, is a non-profit, non-partisan public interest advocacy organization that takes on powerful interests on behalf of its members, working to win concrete results for our health and well-being. To view their report online visit http://www.wispirg.org/reports/wip/picking-tab. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookLike Gwen Moore on FacebookContact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Moore Statement on Offshore Tax Havens Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement criticizing companies that avoid their tax obligations by shifting money to offshore accounts. “Tax day is fast approaching, and once again the wealthiest among us are skirting their tax responsibilities. The Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group (WISPIRG) released a new study that found the average Wisconsin taxpayer in 2011 would have to shoulder an extra $372 tax burden to make up for revenue lost from corporations and wealthy individuals shifting income to offshore tax havens. The report additionally found that the average additional tax burden shouldered by Wisconsin small businesses added up to $2,165 due to the ‘offshoring’ of profits by large corporations. “Every year, corporations and wealthy individuals avoid paying an estimated $100 billion in taxes by shifting income to low or no tax offshore tax havens. Of that $100 billion, $60 billion in taxes are avoided specifically by corporations. A GAO study found that at least 83 of the top 100 publicly traded corporations use offshore tax havens. “While corporations are saving billions of dollars in taxes, average Americans and small businesses are forced to pay the difference. Once again, the rich are getting richer on the backs of everyone else. “Last year, I cosponsored the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, H.R. 2669. This Act would take measures to thwart offshore tax havens and abusive tax shelters that avoid Federal taxation. It is my hope that this legislation helps billion dollar corporations pay their fair share. “I applaud WISPIRG for their research on the negative effect of offshore tax havens. It is not and should never be our responsibility to pay the taxes of the wealthy.” WISPIRG, the Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group, is a non-profit, non-partisan public interest advocacy organization that takes on powerful interests on behalf of its members, working to win concrete results for our health and well-being. To view their report online visit http://www.wispirg.org/reports/wip/picking-tab. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookContact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Moore Statement on Offshore Tax Havens Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement criticizing companies that avoid their tax obligations by shifting money to offshore accounts. “Tax day is fast approaching, and once again the wealthiest among us are skirting their tax responsibilities. The Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group (WISPIRG) released a new study that found the average Wisconsin taxpayer in 2011 would have to shoulder an extra $372 tax burden to make up for revenue lost from corporations and wealthy individuals shifting income to offshore tax havens. The report additionally found that the average additional tax burden shouldered by Wisconsin small businesses added up to $2,165 due to the ‘offshoring’ of profits by large corporations. “Every year, corporations and wealthy individuals avoid paying an estimated $100 billion in taxes by shifting income to low or no tax offshore tax havens. Of that $100 billion, $60 billion in taxes are avoided specifically by corporations. A GAO study found that at least 83 of the top 100 publicly traded corporations use offshore tax havens. “While corporations are saving billions of dollars in taxes, average Americans and small businesses are forced to pay the difference. Once again, the rich are getting richer on the backs of everyone else. “Last year, I cosponsored the Stop Tax Haven Abuse Act, H.R. 2669. This Act would take measures to thwart offshore tax havens and abusive tax shelters that avoid Federal taxation. It is my hope that this legislation helps billion dollar corporations pay their fair share. “I applaud WISPIRG for their research on the negative effect of offshore tax havens. It is not and should never be our responsibility to pay the taxes of the wealthy.” WISPIRG, the Wisconsin Public Interest Research Group, is a non-profit, non-partisan public interest advocacy organization that takes on powerful interests on behalf of its members, working to win concrete results for our health and well-being. To view their report online visit http://www.wispirg.org/reports/wip/picking-tab. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.12.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), released the following statement saluting Milwaukeean Harold "Gus" Frank as a one of eight White House Champion of Change honorees who are demonstrating ways that corporate environmental leadership makes sense... share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Milwaukee Champion of Change White House Honors Corporate Environmental Sustainability Leaders Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), released the following statement saluting Milwaukeean Harold “Gus” Frank as a one of eight White House Champion of Change honorees who are demonstrating ways that corporate environmental leadership makes sense, both for business and for American communities. “As the Chairman of the Forest County Potawatomi Community, Gus understands that sustainable practices are beneficial not only for the community, but also for business. Through his leadership, he has implemented environmental policies that reduced the tribe’s carbon footprint and led to an overall reduction in energy use. “Gus recognizes that clean air, water and land must be preserved now to ensure future generations enjoy the same benefits of the Potawatomi land. He is most deserving of the Champion of Change award, and I am proud to join with the White House in honoring my friend Gus.” Other honorees include Wayne Balta, Saint Clair, PA; David Bolt, Knoxville, TN; Jim Clark, Dayton, OH; Frank Hugelmeyer, Boulder, CO; Chad and Jodi Ray, Louisburg, NC; and Karen Trilevsky, Moss Beach, CA The Champions of Change program was created as a part of President Obama’s “Winning the Future” initiative. To watch this event live, visit www.whitehouse.gov/live at 1:30 pm ET. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookLike Gwen Moore on FacebookContact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes Milwaukee Champion of Change White House Honors Corporate Environmental Sustainability Leaders Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), released the following statement saluting Milwaukeean Harold “Gus” Frank as a one of eight White House Champion of Change honorees who are demonstrating ways that corporate environmental leadership makes sense, both for business and for American communities. “As the Chairman of the Forest County Potawatomi Community, Gus understands that sustainable practices are beneficial not only for the community, but also for business. Through his leadership, he has implemented environmental policies that reduced the tribe’s carbon footprint and led to an overall reduction in energy use. “Gus recognizes that clean air, water and land must be preserved now to ensure future generations enjoy the same benefits of the Potawatomi land. He is most deserving of the Champion of Change award, and I am proud to join with the White House in honoring my friend Gus.” Other honorees include Wayne Balta, Saint Clair, PA; David Bolt, Knoxville, TN; Jim Clark, Dayton, OH; Frank Hugelmeyer, Boulder, CO; Chad and Jodi Ray, Louisburg, NC; and Karen Trilevsky, Moss Beach, CA The Champions of Change program was created as a part of President Obama’s “Winning the Future” initiative. To watch this event live, visit www.whitehouse.gov/live at 1:30 pm ET. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.10.2012	Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), announced the release of over $1.6 million in grant funding for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc (PCHC). share: f t Contact:Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572Gwen Moore Announces $1.6 Million Grant for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. Funding to Help Improve Minority Health Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), announced the release of over $1.6 million in grant funding for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc (PCHC). This grant was awarded through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. HRSA is the primary Federal agency for improving access to health care services for people who are uninsured, isolated or medically vulnerable. Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. offers adult medicine, pediatric medicine, women’s health, dental care, financial counseling, case management and referral services including x-rays, mammography, cardiology, pain management, eye care and more. PCHC efforts have also helped to reduce avoidable emergency room visits by providing preventative care, thereby lessening the costs for health care systems and taxpayers. This grant will provide funds to facilitate these services that aim to reduce health disparities among high-risk populations. “Access to health care is not an issue specific to one demographic, but spans across ethnic borders,” said Rep. Moore. “This much-needed grant will help PCHC continue to provide health care services for those who are oftentimes overlooked.” Progressive Community Health Centers exists to improve the health and quality of life of the community by providing culturally competent services that address identified needs. To learn more visit http://www.progressivechc.org/. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore and Like Gwen Moore on Facebook Like Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $1.6 Million Grant for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. Funding to Help Improve Minority Health Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), announced the release of over $1.6 million in grant funding for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc (PCHC). This grant was awarded through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. HRSA is the primary Federal agency for improving access to health care services for people who are uninsured, isolated or medically vulnerable. Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. offers adult medicine, pediatric medicine, women’s health, dental care, financial counseling, case management and referral services including x-rays, mammography, cardiology, pain management, eye care and more. PCHC efforts have also helped to reduce avoidable emergency room visits by providing preventative care, thereby lessening the costs for health care systems and taxpayers. This grant will provide funds to facilitate these services that aim to reduce health disparities among high-risk populations. “Access to health care is not an issue specific to one demographic, but spans across ethnic borders,” said Rep. Moore. “This much-needed grant will help PCHC continue to provide health care services for those who are oftentimes overlooked.” Progressive Community Health Centers exists to improve the health and quality of life of the community by providing culturally competent services that address identified needs. To learn more visit http://www.progressivechc.org/. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $1.6 Million Grant for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. Funding to Help Improve Minority Health Milwaukee, WI – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS), announced the release of over $1.6 million in grant funding for Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc (PCHC). This grant was awarded through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. HRSA is the primary Federal agency for improving access to health care services for people who are uninsured, isolated or medically vulnerable. Progressive Community Health Centers, Inc. offers adult medicine, pediatric medicine, women’s health, dental care, financial counseling, case management and referral services including x-rays, mammography, cardiology, pain management, eye care and more. PCHC efforts have also helped to reduce avoidable emergency room visits by providing preventative care, thereby lessening the costs for health care systems and taxpayers. This grant will provide funds to facilitate these services that aim to reduce health disparities among high-risk populations. “Access to health care is not an issue specific to one demographic, but spans across ethnic borders,” said Rep. Moore. “This much-needed grant will help PCHC continue to provide health care services for those who are oftentimes overlooked.” Progressive Community Health Centers exists to improve the health and quality of life of the community by providing culturally competent services that address identified needs. To learn more visit http://www.progressivechc.org/. ### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.05.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the release of over $1.5 million in grant funding for the AIDS Resource Center of Wisconsin, the Community Development Authority (CDA) share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Announces $1.5 Million Grants for Milwaukee Area HousingFunding to Help People Living with HIV/AIDS and Veterans Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the release of over $1.5 million in grant funding for the AIDS Resource Center of Wisconsin, the Community Development Authority (CDA) of the City of West Allis and the Housing Authority of the City of Milwaukee. The funds were separated into two grants: Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) and Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH). HOPWA was awarded to the AIDS Resource Center of Wisconsin to continue providing tenant-based rental assistance and supportive housing assistance to 61 chronically homeless households living with HIV/AIDS and their families. The funds, which totaled approximately $1.3 million, will also be used to finance supportive services such as access to medical care and employment referral. VASH was awarded to the CDA of the City of West Allis and the Housing Authority of the City of Milwaukee. These public housing agencies have agreed to partner with eligible Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facilities. This collaboration will offer rental assistance in conjunction with VA case management and clinical services for homeless veterans. Each organization was granted over $100,000. “This funding is critical to helping those who have been marginalized by society find some stability and gain access to greater opportunities,” said Rep. Moore. “The grants will also help those who have risked their lives for our nation by providing housing assistance to our veterans.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.04.2012	I hope everyone will take a moment to explore the new site to learn about my work on key issues and discover how to take advantage of the many constituent services my office can provide. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Launches New Website Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) announced the launch of her new website for the 4th Congressional District of Wisconsin. “I am extremely pleased to announce the launch of my brand new website,” said Rep. Moore. “I hope everyone will take a moment to explore the new site to learn about my work on key issues and discover how to take advantage of the many constituent services my office can provide.” Rep. Moore’s newly designed website contains a number of new features including a homepage newsflash rotator highlighting Rep. Moore’s efforts on important issues affecting Wisconsin; instant news from Rep. Moore’s Twitter feed and Huffington Post blog; and a more user-friendly website design, making information and services accessible within clicks. “It is an honor to represent Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District, and I am pleased to offer this updated ‘online office’ to better serve them as I represent their interests in Washington,” said Rep. Moore. Visit Congresswoman Gwen Moore’s website at www.gwenmoore.house.gov. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.04.2012	This month and every month, I urge everyone to become actively involved in ending this violence against children. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes National Child Abuse Prevention Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in observance of Child Abuse Prevention Month: “Each year, April marks the beginning of National Child Abuse Prevention Month. This month, officially recognized in 1983, aims to promote child abuse awareness and prevention measures. “According to a U.S. Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) study 436,321 reports of child abuse or neglect were substantiated in 2010 alone. However for many reasons, this number may be significantly higher. Those thousands of cases represent people – what’s more is that they represent children. As a survivor of child abuse, I can say firsthand that no one should ever experience the pain and fear that are tied with abuse and especially not a child. “It comes as no surprise, that the majority of abused children have at least one psychological disorder later in life, according to another HHS report. Child abuse can also result in an increased risk for teen pregnancy, venereal diseases and arrest. Some abused children continue the cycle of violence towards their own children. “Child abuse is a tragic epidemic that must be stopped. The cure is through education and prevention programs. We must end this type of abuse at its core – the family. Strong and supportive families can reduce the risk of child abuse and neglect. “Child abuse is not a problem specific to one demographic, but a cancer that destroys families and communities across racial and socio-economic lines. This month and every month, I urge everyone to become actively involved in ending this violence against children.” For more information about National Child Abuse Prevention Month and what you can do to protect our children visit www.childwelfare.gov. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.02.2012	We must not and will not allow the extreme actions of a few to derail the mission of Planned Parenthood to provide affordable, high quality health services for women, men and children. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on Bomb Explosion Outside of Wisconsin Planned Parenthood Milwaukee, WI –Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (W-4) released the following statement following police reports that a small bomb exploded outside a Planned Parenthood clinic in Wisconsin on Sunday night: “First and foremost, I am so very thankful that no one was injured as a result of this explosion. “While we understand that there are those that may disagree with the mission of Planned Parenthood, it is my sincere hope that they would not resort to violence as a means to express those views. “Planned Parenthood does amazing work within our community and across this country. We must not and will not allow the extreme actions of a few to derail the mission of Planned Parenthood to provide affordable, high quality health services for women, men and children.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
04.02.2012	In April of each year, the nation observes Minority Health Awareness Month to educate Americans on the massive minority health disparities that exist in our nation and to encourage action to help reduce these inequalities. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates National Minority Health Awareness Month Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in recognition of Minority Health Awareness Month. “In April of each year, the nation observes Minority Health Awareness Month to educate Americans on the massive minority health disparities that exist in our nation and to encourage action to help reduce these inequalities. This year’s theme, ‘Health Equity Can’t Wait. Act Now in Your CommUNITY!,’ is a call to action and unity for the regional, state and local offices of minority health, the health departments and all the organizations and partners involved and invested in reducing health disparities. “These inequalities have been officially recognized by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) since 1985, but have been present in our minority communities for much longer. “According to an HHS 2011 report, minorities fare much worse than their Caucasian counterparts on almost every health analyzed factor ranging from social and behavioral factors to preventative health services. “These disparities are just another reason why the Affordable Care Act is so crucial. Passed by President Obama in 2010, this Act established federal offices focused on reducing minority health disparities. Moreover, because of this Act approximately 54 million Americans have access to free preventative services. In Wisconsin, over 1 million people now have access to this care. “Our President understands the need to reduce minority health disparities and so do I. In April and beyond, I encourage everyone to take steps to improve their health and the health of others.” To learn more about National Minority Health Awareness Month and how to become involved visit http://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/Actnow/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.29.2012	The Republican budget, crafted by Chairman Paul Ryan, claims to •complete the successful work of transforming welfare by reforming other areas of America's safety net.' But in reality, the budget simply puts an end to the guarantee of some of our Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Votes “No” on the Ryan Budget Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement after voting against the House Republican budget for the 2013 fiscal year: “The Republican budget, crafted by Chairman Paul Ryan, claims to ‘complete the successful work of transforming welfare by reforming other areas of America’s safety net.’ But in reality, the budget simply puts an end to the guarantee of some of our nation’s key protections and programs and breaches the social contract we have with our citizens. “The Ryan budget would ‘fix’ Medicare by ending the right to health care for retirees and turning it into a voucher program that would ‘save’ $30 billion from taxpayers’ hard-earned money over 10 years. It would ‘reform’ Medicaid by turning it into a block grant and cutting another $810 billion in spending on this program. And it would ‘mend’ food stamp programs for hungry, low-income Americans, again by block-granting the program and cutting $134 billion. “As a Member of the House Budget Committee, it is clear to me that this Republican budget is unfair, unbalanced and unwise for the American people. It cuts spending to programs that affect the most vulnerable populations while giving big new tax breaks to millionaires and protecting special interest tax loopholes. “The House Republican budget also breaks the bipartisan agreement made during the debt ceiling debate last summer for across-the-board spending cuts for both defense and discretionary spending beginning in 2013. “A budget is a moral document that reflects the priorities in which a country will invest their resources. This budget reflects what Republicans have continually represented during this Congress: helping the wealthy and hurting everyone else. It is disappointing that Republicans have, once again, echoed their ideology instead of acknowledging the needs of the American people.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.28.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Introduces Violence Against Women Act Rep. Moore introduces legislation to thwart domestic violence Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012. This legislation strengthens the abilities of the Federal Government, States, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. “Domestic violence is a cancer that pervades our communities and our homes,” said Rep. Moore. “As a survivor of domestic violence I feel it is my personal responsibility to reach back and help those who have been victimized. “No woman should ever feel afraid in her own neighborhood and home. No woman should ever have to endure the physical and psychological pain of domestic violence. Yet, too many women continue to live in fear. And that is why we must reauthorize – and strengthen – the Violence Against Women Act.” The Violence Against Women Act has a strong track record of success, demonstrably improving the criminal justice system’s ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. The annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50 percent since the law was originally enacted. This Act provides life-saving support to victims of domestic violence and strengthens communities to help end this brutality. “When the Violence Against Women Act was originally passed in 1994, it came as a bipartisan victory,” said Rep. Moore. “Domestic violence is not just a Democratic or a Republican problem. It is an evil that reaches across party lines. As Members of Congress, we must join together to pass this legislation. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in again making progress to protect America’s women and children. To view Congresswoman Moore’s introduction of the Violence Against Women Act visit her YouTube page here. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.28.2012	Today through Thursday, April 12, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will accept artwork for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Hosts Congressional Art Competition Milwaukee, WI – Today through Thursday, April 12, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will accept artwork for the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. This competition will allow students to truly exemplify the talent base in the Milwaukee area. The winner will be invited to Washington, DC to meet with Congresswoman Moore. “Our area is home to so many young and talented artists,” said Rep. Moore. “I am honored to recognize them through this competition.” The Congressional Art Competition is highly competitive, and each piece of art will be judged by local artists. To ensure that student artwork is able to judged, please abide by all guidelines. Artwork categories include the following: Paintings (oil, acrylics, watercolors, etc.); Drawings (pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.); Collages (must be two dimensional); Prints (lithographs, silk screens, block prints, etc.); Mixed Media; Computer; Generated Art; and Photography. All entries must be two dimensional; measure at no larger than 28 inches wide by 28 inches tall by 4 inches thick; weigh no more than 15 pounds; be original in concept, design, and execution; and not violate any U.S. copyright laws. The competition is open to high school students who live in Wisconsin’s Fourth Congressional District. To be eligible, students must be in grades 9-12. Entries must be received by the Congresswoman’s office along with a completed submission form by Thursday, April 12, 2012.The competition is open to the public. A reception for the student winner will be held on Saturday, April 28, 2012. For more information and to receive the submission form, please contact Congresswoman Moore’s office at 414-297-1140. WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) WHAT: 2012 Congressional Art Competition Submission WHEN: Thursday, April 12, 2012 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM WHERE: The Office of Congresswoman Gwen Moore 219 N. Milwaukee Street STE 3A Milwaukee, WI 53202 ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.20.2012	As a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, I understand that small business is the backbone of our economy, share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Introduces Bill to Help Small Businesses Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced a bill that would enhance access to capital for small businesses. This bill would provide tax cuts to those who hold stock in a qualified small business for more than five years. These tax breaks would offer increased motivation to invest in small business, thus providing these companies with more capital and more opportunities to grow and to hire. “As a member of the House Committee on Financial Services, I understand that small business is the backbone of our economy,” said Rep Gwen Moore. “According to the U.S. Small Business Administration, generally speaking, small businesses create the most new jobs and employ roughly half of America’s private sector work force. “As a former small business owner in my hometown, I truly recognize the impact that they can have on our communities. I have seen firsthand how small businesses can transform a neighborhood and its citizens. “That is why I have made the empowerment and sustainability of small businesses one of my main priorities. “In 2010, President Obama signed the Small Business Jobs Act into law, which provided small businesses with more tax breaks and easier access to credit. He went further to create the American Jobs Act, with a particular focus on payroll tax cuts for small businesses and incentives for small business job growth. “I supported both pieces of legislation because I, like the President, realize that job growth relies on a thriving small business community. “I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation. Our economy and our nation depend on the success of small businesses.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.20.2012	As a Member of the House Budget Committee, it is clear to me that this Republican budget is unfair, unbalanced and unwise for the American people. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Says Ryan Budget “Unfair, Unbalanced and Unwise for the American People” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement on the proposed budget crafted by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) and House Republicans for the 2013 fiscal year: “As a Member of the House Budget Committee, it is clear to me that this Republican budget is unfair, unbalanced and unwise for the American people. It cuts spending to programs that affect the most vulnerable populations while giving big new tax breaks to millionaires and protecting special interest tax loopholes. “Most egregious in this budget are the fundamental changes to the structure of Medicare and Medicaid which would virtually end these programs as we know them. This budget would slice into the social safety net, taking aim not only at discretionary spending, but at mandatory spending on Medicare and Medicaid. “Once again, the Ryan budget will propose block-granting Medicaid, ending its entitlement status. This would not only cut funding for insurance coverage for low-income children and adults. It would cut funding for nursing home care for poor seniors, many of whom rely on Medicaid to cover their long-term care expenses. Additionally, the Republican budget proposes a slight variation on last year’s plan to ‘voucherize’ Medicare instead calling it “premium support.” The bottom line is that this plan would shift costs to seniors, jeopardize their care, and erode traditional Medicare. “The House Republican budget also breaks the bipartisan agreement made during the debt ceiling debate last summer for across-the-board spending cuts for both defense and discretionary spending beginning in 2013. “A budget is a moral document that reflects the priorities in which a country will invest their resources. Sadly, the Republicans have once again shown that they are content to let the ‘have-nots’ of our society fall by the wayside in order to enrich the ‘haves.’” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.12.2012	Today marks the beginning of a weeklong celebration honoring those who serve our nation through the AmeriCorps programs. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates AmeriCorps Week 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement in recognition of AmeriCorps Week 2012. “Today marks the beginning of a weeklong celebration honoring those who serve our nation through the AmeriCorps programs. “Each year, AmeriCorps sponsors nearly 75,000 Americans who serve and empower our community through these programs. Their service includes tutoring disadvantaged youth, building affordable housing and improving health services among many other community projects. One program in particular, Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), focuses on creating pathways out of poverty. “As someone who has lived in poverty and has seen my community struggling through economic hardship, I understand the importance and need for the AmeriCorps programs. My home, in the Midtown neighborhood of Milwaukee, was one of these towns where its citizens had fallen victim to the ploys of traditional financial institutions. I saw my neighbors slip into financial craters and local businesses bankrupted. Someone needed to help rebuild this community – my community. “In the 1970s – before VISTA was incorporated into AmeriCorps – I was sworn in as a VISTA volunteer. Through this program I, along with my cohort, was able to create a financial institution to give real advice to area residents. Our credit union served as a catalyst that brought businesses, sustained growth and an increased pride to our community. “Today, VISTA is included in the AmeriCorps programs with the same mission of providing pathways out of poverty. In addition to this mission, the volunteers with the AmeriCorps programs provide overall service to our nation. “This week we celebrate the contributions they have made and the dedication they have to empowering our communities. This year’s theme, AmeriCorps Works, is explained by its title. It is our goal to communicate how AmeriCorps works to positively reform our nation. We wish others to understand how AmeriCorps improves not only the lives of those for whom these initiatives are created, but the lives of those who serve as well.” AmeriCorps is a network of three programs: AmeriCorps State and National, AmeriCorps VISTA and AmeriCorps National Civilian Community Corps. Since 1994, nearly 500,000 AmeriCorps members have served with thousands of nonprofit organizations, public agencies, and faith-based organizations nationwide. Every year AmeriCorps week celebrates the contributions these volunteers have made in their communities. To learn more about AmeriCorps week visit www.americorps.gov. Rep. Moore was named VISTA Volunteer of the Decade (1976-1986). She currently serves on the House Committee on Financial Services with the unchanged goal of helping those gain exit out of poverty. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.08.2012	Today, we come together to celebrate women and girls across the globe and their many contributions. As we reflect on International Women's Day, we must recommit ourselves to women's global struggle for equality and human rights. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Commemorates International Women’s Day Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement commemorating International Women’s Day. “Today, we come together to celebrate women and girls across the globe and their many contributions. As we reflect on International Women’s Day, we must recommit ourselves to women’s global struggle for equality and human rights. “Despite making up more than half the world’s population, women continue to get the shortest end of the stick. For example, women have played a large role in the Arab Spring. However, even in these emerging democracies, women continue to face obstacles to getting a seat at the very tables they helped overturn. From famine in the Horn of Africa, to widespread and deplorable levels of sexual violence committed against them in the Democratic Republic of Congo and elsewhere where conflict abounds, we must work to ensure that women’s voices are heard on these critical issues. “This year’s International Women’s Day theme is ‘Connecting Girls, Inspiring Futures.’ As a mother and grandmother of young women, I know the importance of providing girls with opportunities and positive role models. This is particularly important in these days and times as there are so many obstacles that face women and girls across the globe. For too many young girls, lack of access to education and health care early in life will impede their development and chance for success later on in life. This is simply unacceptable. “As a nation, we must continue to support women around the world who are struggling, often at great personal risk - as exemplified by the State Department’s Women of Courage awardees – to simply be able to have the very basic things in life that we in this nation take for granted, such as a decent education for themselves and their children and equal protection under the law from violence. “This year, I call upon both men and women to take an active role in the lives of our young girls so that they might grow to become productive citizens who are not afraid to let their voices be heard. We must work to bring bold new ideas to create healthy communities and provide greater opportunities for those who have been marginalized throughout the world.” International Women’s Day is celebrated every year on March 8th. International Women's Day has been observed since the early 1900's, a time of great expansion and turbulence in the industrialized world that saw booming population growth and the rise of radical ideologies. This year’s theme is “Connecting Girls, Inspiring Futures.” Rep. Gwen Moore is co-chair of the Caucus on Women’s Issues and is a powerful voice in Congress on behalf of women. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.07.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) applauded the Wisconsin Army National Guard for their admirable efforts in increasing soldier readiness through improving military environments, facilities and services. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds Wisconsin Army National Guard Rep. Moore recognizes Wisconsin Army National Guard for earning their Excellence Award Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) applauded the Wisconsin Army National Guard for their admirable efforts in increasing soldier readiness through improving military environments, facilities and services. For the first time in 11 years, the Wisconsin Army National Guard was selected the overall winner in its category for the Army Chief of Staff Army Communities of Excellence Award (ACOE). The ACOE program aims to build a strong community around its soldiers. The Army believes that soldiers perform their assignments with increased confidence if they are sustained by a supporting foundation. Since its inception in 1989, the ACOE Award program has awarded military organizations who excel in building this community through strategies that encompass the interests of soldiers and their families. “I am so proud that the Wisconsin Army National Guard will be honored as the overall winner for the ACOE award,” said Rep. Moore. “This award is a testament to their endless dedication to protecting our borders by creating a positive environment around our soldiers. I feel honored and privileged that these great men and women hail from my home state.” Wisconsin has been a participant in the Army Chief of Staff Army Communities of Excellence Award program since its beginning. Through ACOE, the Wisconsin Army National Guard has continually earned titles of excellence. In 2008, Wisconsin was awarded a Silver First Place and in 2009, the state earned a Gold Third Place award. The tradition continued in 2010 when Wisconsin was awarded a Silver Second Place and in 2011 when the state earned the Gold First Place award. Becoming the overall winner is the culmination of years of hard work and discipline. All awardees will be recognized on May 1 during a ceremony at the Pentagon. The ACOE Awards program follows a 12-month evaluation in which Army, National Guard and Reserve installations are judged against Army priorities and the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Program criteria. For more information about the Wisconsin Army National Guard and their history of distinction, visit the Wisconsin Department of Military Affairs website at http://dma.wi.gov/dma/default.asp. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.07.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will receive an Animal Welfare Leadership Award, acknowledging her legislative work on animal protection in 2011. The award will be presented by the Humane Society of the United States and Humane Society Legislative share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Receives Animal Welfare Leadership Award Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will receive an Animal Welfare Leadership Award, acknowledging her legislative work on animal protection in 2011. The award will be presented by the Humane Society of the United States and Humane Society Legislative Fund on behalf of the organizations’ 21,100 supporters in the 4th district of Wisconsin. Rep. Moore will receive a Humane Advocate award for earning a perfect score on the 2011 Humane Scorecard. There were only 33 Members who received this score. In total, 127 legislators – nearly one-third of the Senate and one-quarter of the House (representing 38 states, three U. S. territories and the District of Columbia) – will receive awards for their work in 2011. To see the complete list of 2011 awardees, please click here. “I am honored to join my colleagues in accepting this award,” said Rep. Moore. “As Members of Congress, I am pleased to be able to lend my support to legislation that advocates for animal welfare.” Every year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund compiles a federal Humane Scorecard to provide a snapshot of animal protection issues considered by the U.S. Congress and give animal advocates a tool to assess the performance of their Senators and Representatives. The scorecard tracks key votes as well as cosponsorship of important pro-animal bills and signing an annual letter seeking funds needed to enforce key animal welfare laws. For 2011, House ratings included votes on agribusiness subsidies, lethal predator control, and the Endangered Species Act, and cosponsorship of priority bills on puppy mills, horse slaughter, animal fighting, and chimpanzees warehoused in laboratories. “Representative Moore has been there for us on a wide range of critical humane issues,” said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The HSUS. “We so appreciate having her steadfast support for animal protection.” “It is heartening to see again how animal protection issues bring Members of Congress together across party lines,” said HSLF President Michael Markarian. “We thank Rep. Moore for her outstanding work to ensure that our federal laws reflect the core humane values and attitudes of American society.” The Humane Society of the United States is the nation's largest animal protection organization —fighting for the protection of all animals through advocacy, education and hands-on programs. For more information, please visit humanesociety.org. The Humane Society Legislative Fund is a social welfare organization that works to pass animal protection laws at the state and federal level, to educate the public about animal protection issues and to support humane candidates for office. For more information visit hslf.org. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.06.2012	I am extremely pleased with the court's decision today to grant a temporary injunction against the Wisconsin voter ID law. This law does nothing but attempt return us to an era of Jim Crow politics. Requiring strict photo ID at the polls is nothing m Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Applauds Temporary Injunction of Wisconsin Voter ID Law Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following the statement on the decision of Circuit Judge David Flanagan to grant an injunction against Wisconsin's new voter identification law, meaning the law would not apply for the Wisconsin presidential primary and local general election. “I am extremely pleased with the court’s decision today to grant a temporary injunction against the Wisconsin voter ID law. This law does nothing but attempt return us to an era of Jim Crow politics. Requiring strict photo ID at the polls is nothing more than a modern day poll tax. “This law is a direct and blatant attack on the same citizens who have struggled throughout our nation’s history for the right to vote. Requiring a strict photo ID card at the polls disenfranchises minorities, low-income folks, the elderly, students, and other vulnerable populations. Obtaining the documentation needed to get an ID, like a birth certificate, costs money and time. Taking time off from work to travel and wait in line for hours at the DMV is not something that many disadvantaged Americans can afford to do. “When I took my oath as a Member of Congress to uphold and defend the United States Constitution, I took it very seriously. Our right to vote is one of the most protected rights of any that we enjoy in our democratic system. In fact, the Constitution was amended five times over our nation’s history to reflect this American ideal. “In a Democracy, your vote is your voice and it must not be silenced. I will continue to fight to make voting an equal opportunity regardless of race, status, and age.” Rep. Gwen Moore has been a leader on the issue of voter protection. She along with Keith Ellison (D-MN), have introduced H.R. 3316, the Voter Access Protection Act, to make it a federal law to protect the voting rights of those Americans who lack photo ID in federal elections. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.06.2012	Don was not only a colleague, he was a mentor and friend who I lovingly called •The Professor'. A true statesman, with a heart of gold, I will miss his giving spirit and warm smile. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseMarch 6, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Statement on the Passing of Congressman Donald M. Payne Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Donald M. Payne (D-NJ). “Today we mourn the loss of a man whose life was a true demonstration of public service. A champion for all, Don always showed great compassion for those less fortunate and dedicated his life to improving the lives of his fellow New Jerseyans and people throughout the world. “I was honored and privileged to work with Don on a number of issues throughout the years. Don was not only a colleague, he was a mentor and friend who I lovingly called ‘The Professor’. A true statesman, with a heart of gold, I will miss his giving spirit and warm smile. “I extend my sincere condolences to his family, staff and constituents during this trying time. May they find comfort in their deep and abiding faith during this time of loss.” ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.05.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of National School Breakfast Week. share: f t For Immediate ReleaseMarch 5, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National School Breakfast Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of National School Breakfast Week. “This week marks the culmination of a two-month long campaign, sponsored by the School Nutrition Association, which focuses on helping students succeed by providing school breakfast. This year’s theme, School Breakfast – Go for Gold, aims to promote healthy breakfast habits among youth. “According to a 2008 Harvard analysis, children who eat breakfast perform higher on tests. Breakfast is the fuel our bodies and minds need to function throughout the day. It is more difficult for students to focus on school work when their minds are focused on food. “As an avid supporter of school breakfast programs, I truly understand the need for children to consume a healthy meal before their class day begins. In 2009, I along with U.S. Senators Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold introduced the Student Breakfast and Education Improvement Act that would increase funding for school breakfast programs. This legislation was included in the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 which was signed into law by President Obama. Even so, we must continue to work towards ensuring that all children are eating their first meal of the day. “I encourage all schools across the nation to participate in National School Breakfast Week. Although I am pleased there are currently 87 Milwaukee Public Schools that provide “Universal Free Breakfast-in-the-Classroom,” there is still much work to be done to ensure our children are eating sufficiently. In some instances, children do not eat breakfast simply due to lack of affordability or access. In order to facilitate student success, we must instill the importance of a properly balanced breakfast in our youth and provide free breakfast to those who otherwise go without.” The School Nutrition Association is an organization aimed at advancing good nutrition by envisioning a society where healthful meals and nutrition education are available to all children. For more information about what your school can do to promote National School Breakfast Week, visit http://www.schoolnutrition.org/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookFor Immediate ReleaseMarch 5, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National School Breakfast Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of National School Breakfast Week. “This week marks the culmination of a two-month long campaign, sponsored by the School Nutrition Association, which focuses on helping students succeed by providing school breakfast. This year’s theme, School Breakfast – Go for Gold, aims to promote healthy breakfast habits among youth. “According to a 2008 Harvard analysis, children who eat breakfast perform higher on tests. Breakfast is the fuel our bodies and minds need to function throughout the day. It is more difficult for students to focus on school work when their minds are focused on food. “As an avid supporter of school breakfast programs, I truly understand the need for children to consume a healthy meal before their class day begins. In 2009, I along with U.S. Senators Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold introduced the Student Breakfast and Education Improvement Act that would increase funding for school breakfast programs. This legislation was included in the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 which was signed into law by President Obama. Even so, we must continue to work towards ensuring that all children are eating their first meal of the day. “I encourage all schools across the nation to participate in National School Breakfast Week. Although I am pleased there are currently 87 Milwaukee Public Schools that provide “Universal Free Breakfast-in-the-Classroom,” there is still much work to be done to ensure our children are eating sufficiently. In some instances, children do not eat breakfast simply due to lack of affordability or access. In order to facilitate student success, we must instill the importance of a properly balanced breakfast in our youth and provide free breakfast to those who otherwise go without.” The School Nutrition Association is an organization aimed at advancing good nutrition by envisioning a society where healthful meals and nutrition education are available to all children. For more information about what your school can do to promote National School Breakfast Week, visit http://www.schoolnutrition.org/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookFor Immediate ReleaseMarch 5, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox(202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Celebrates National School Breakfast Week Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of National School Breakfast Week. “This week marks the culmination of a two-month long campaign, sponsored by the School Nutrition Association, which focuses on helping students succeed by providing school breakfast. This year’s theme, School Breakfast – Go for Gold, aims to promote healthy breakfast habits among youth. “According to a 2008 Harvard analysis, children who eat breakfast perform higher on tests. Breakfast is the fuel our bodies and minds need to function throughout the day. It is more difficult for students to focus on school work when their minds are focused on food. “As an avid supporter of school breakfast programs, I truly understand the need for children to consume a healthy meal before their class day begins. In 2009, I along with U.S. Senators Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold introduced the Student Breakfast and Education Improvement Act that would increase funding for school breakfast programs. This legislation was included in the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 which was signed into law by President Obama. Even so, we must continue to work towards ensuring that all children are eating their first meal of the day. “I encourage all schools across the nation to participate in National School Breakfast Week. Although I am pleased there are currently 87 Milwaukee Public Schools that provide “Universal Free Breakfast-in-the-Classroom,” there is still much work to be done to ensure our children are eating sufficiently. In some instances, children do not eat breakfast simply due to lack of affordability or access. In order to facilitate student success, we must instill the importance of a properly balanced breakfast in our youth and provide free breakfast to those who otherwise go without.” The School Nutrition Association is an organization aimed at advancing good nutrition by envisioning a society where healthful meals and nutrition education are available to all children. For more information about what your school can do to promote National School Breakfast Week, visit http://www.schoolnutrition.org/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.01.2012	Women's History Month is a time for us to reflect on the many contributions women have made to ensure that our daughters are offered equal opportunities and an equal chance at success. Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement commemorating Women’s History Month. “Women’s History Month is a time for us to reflect on the many contributions women have made to ensure that our daughters are offered equal opportunities and an equal chance at success. Whether they were fighting for equal rights and equal pay in the workplace, marching for voting rights or working hard to provide for their families, we pause to pay tribute to the many heroines both known and unknown. I am proud to stand on the shoulders of many dynamic women who have helped shape and mold me into the woman I am. From Sojourner Truth who sparked the women’s suffrage movement by declaring ‘Ain’t I a Woman,’ to Wisconsin bred Golda Meir the first woman Prime Minister of Israel, to my own mother Beatrice McKinney Lee, I have been blessed to have strong female role models throughout my life. “In recognition of this year’s theme, ‘Our History is Our Strength,’ we honor the many contributions women have made throughout history to our country and across the globe in the struggle for justice and equality for women. At the same time we celebrate the many generations of women to come and vow to nurture their growth so that they can have access even greater opportunities. “In the spirit of all the women sojourners that came before us, I call upon all Americans to become mentors to young women and help cultivate our next generation of leaders.” Women’s History Month is celebrated in the United States every year during the month of March. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
03.01.2012	During this month and throughout the year, let us do everything we can to build awareness around Chronic Kidney Disease. share: f t Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 Gwen Moore Recognizes National Kidney MonthJoins American Kidney Fund for Kidney Action Day Activities Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of National Kidney Month. “There currently 31 million Americans living with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) and millions more who are at risk. According to the American Kidney Fund, CKD is a condition that results in permanent kidney damage. African Americans are at a particularly high risk for CKD making up one third of kidney failure patients living in the United States. Other at-risk groups include Hispanics, Pacific Islanders, Native Americans, seniors and those with family history. “It is increasingly important to understand what causes CKD and how to prevent it. That is why National Kidney Month aims to educate Americans on how to keep their kidneys healthy. Like with many diseases, early detection is critical to preventing future progression and possible kidney failure. “During this month and throughout the year, let us do everything we can to build awareness around Chronic Kidney Disease.” Today, Congresswoman Moore will join the American Kidney Fund (AKF), the Congressional Kidney Caucus other Members of Congress in support of “Kidney Action Day,” a briefing to promote AKF’s campaign to combat kidney disease. This event will take place from 12:00pm – 3:00pm in the Rayburn House Office Building, Room B-340 and will feature free kidney screenings, health and fitness activities and a special appearance by former professional boxer and health champion Laila Ali. The American Kidney Fund was founded in 1971 to save the life of one person who needed help paying for dialysis. Today, AKF has become the leading source of direct, treatment-related financial assistance to people in the United States who are living with Chronic Kidney Disease. For more information about the American Kidney Fund and what you can do to stay healthy visit www.kidneyfund.org/. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.24.2012	This weekend Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will be attending a variety of community events throughout her congressional district. Please note: Media who wish to attend these events should contact the event organizers as some events may require purchase share: f t For Immediate ReleaseFebruary 24, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 ***MEDIA ADVISORY***Gwen Moore to Attend Community Events This Weekend Milwaukee, WI – This weekend Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will be attending a variety of community events throughout her congressional district. Please note: Media who wish to attend these events should contact the event organizers as some events may require purchase of tickets. Friday, February 24, 2012 Milwaukee Times Black Excellence Awards Dinner7:00pmItalian Community Center631 E. Chicago St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 Contact: Lynda Jackson 414-263-5088 Rep. Moore will honor award recipients at the Milwaukee Times Black Excellence Awards Dinner with certificates in recognition of their contributions to the community. ~~~Saturday, February 25, 2012 Milwaukee Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Founder’s Day Luncheon11:30amItalian Conference Center631 E. Chicago St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 Contact: Jackie Zeledon 414-333-3384 Rep. Moore will join the Milwaukee Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. as they celebrate 99 years of sisterhood, scholarship and service during their annual Founders Day Luncheon. Rep. Marcia Fudge of Ohio will deliver the keynote address. ~~~Sunday, February 26, 2012 Metropolitan Baptist Church 75th Anniversary Celebration10:45amMetropolitan Baptist Church1345 W. Burleigh Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53206Contact: Rev. Keith Parrish 414-562-7200 Rep. Moore will join the members of Metropolitan Baptist Church in recognition of their church’s 75th anniversary. The event will celebrate the church and its decades of empowering the citizens of Milwaukee. ~~~Wisconsin State Council of Machinists Conference6:00pmConcourse Hotel1 W. Dayton St., Madison, WI 53703 Contact: Scott Parr 414-416-3810 Rep. Moore will deliver the keynote at the Wisconsin State Council of Machinists Conference. Her speech will center on the need to strengthen the manufacturing industry and job creation. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookFor Immediate ReleaseFebruary 24, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 ***MEDIA ADVISORY***Gwen Moore to Attend Community Events This Weekend Milwaukee, WI – This weekend Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will be attending a variety of community events throughout her congressional district. Please note: Media who wish to attend these events should contact the event organizers as some events may require purchase of tickets. Friday, February 24, 2012 Milwaukee Times Black Excellence Awards Dinner7:00pmItalian Community Center631 E. Chicago St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 Contact: Lynda Jackson 414-263-5088 Rep. Moore will honor award recipients at the Milwaukee Times Black Excellence Awards Dinner with certificates in recognition of their contributions to the community. ~~~Saturday, February 25, 2012 Milwaukee Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Founder’s Day Luncheon11:30amItalian Conference Center631 E. Chicago St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 Contact: Jackie Zeledon 414-333-3384 Rep. Moore will join the Milwaukee Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. as they celebrate 99 years of sisterhood, scholarship and service during their annual Founders Day Luncheon. Rep. Marcia Fudge of Ohio will deliver the keynote address. ~~~Sunday, February 26, 2012 Metropolitan Baptist Church 75th Anniversary Celebration10:45amMetropolitan Baptist Church1345 W. Burleigh Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53206Contact: Rev. Keith Parrish 414-562-7200 Rep. Moore will join the members of Metropolitan Baptist Church in recognition of their church’s 75th anniversary. The event will celebrate the church and its decades of empowering the citizens of Milwaukee. ~~~Wisconsin State Council of Machinists Conference6:00pmConcourse Hotel1 W. Dayton St., Madison, WI 53703 Contact: Scott Parr 414-416-3810 Rep. Moore will deliver the keynote at the Wisconsin State Council of Machinists Conference. Her speech will center on the need to strengthen the manufacturing industry and job creation. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on FacebookFor Immediate ReleaseFebruary 24, 2012 Contact: Nicole Y. Williams or Staci Cox (202) 225- 4572 ***MEDIA ADVISORY***Gwen Moore to Attend Community Events This Weekend Milwaukee, WI – This weekend Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will be attending a variety of community events throughout her congressional district. Please note: Media who wish to attend these events should contact the event organizers as some events may require purchase of tickets. Friday, February 24, 2012 Milwaukee Times Black Excellence Awards Dinner7:00pmItalian Community Center631 E. Chicago St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 Contact: Lynda Jackson 414-263-5088 Rep. Moore will honor award recipients at the Milwaukee Times Black Excellence Awards Dinner with certificates in recognition of their contributions to the community. ~~~Saturday, February 25, 2012 Milwaukee Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Founder’s Day Luncheon11:30amItalian Conference Center631 E. Chicago St., Milwaukee, WI 53202 Contact: Jackie Zeledon 414-333-3384 Rep. Moore will join the Milwaukee Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. as they celebrate 99 years of sisterhood, scholarship and service during their annual Founders Day Luncheon. Rep. Marcia Fudge of Ohio will deliver the keynote address. ~~~Sunday, February 26, 2012 Metropolitan Baptist Church 75th Anniversary Celebration10:45amMetropolitan Baptist Church1345 W. Burleigh Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53206Contact: Rev. Keith Parrish 414-562-7200 Rep. Moore will join the members of Metropolitan Baptist Church in recognition of their church’s 75th anniversary. The event will celebrate the church and its decades of empowering the citizens of Milwaukee. ~~~Wisconsin State Council of Machinists Conference6:00pmConcourse Hotel1 W. Dayton St., Madison, WI 53703 Contact: Scott Parr 414-416-3810 Rep. Moore will deliver the keynote at the Wisconsin State Council of Machinists Conference. Her speech will center on the need to strengthen the manufacturing industry and job creation. ### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.22.2012	It is a shame that in a country so rich with resources, that we continue to ignore the issue of poverty among Americans. Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Poverty in America Awareness Month.“Today, the unemployment rate stands at 8.6 percent and despite recent economic growth more than 43 million Americans including 14.7 million children live in poverty, the highest in the more than 50 years since we have been tracking this data. The poverty rate among women climbed to 14.5 percent in 2010 from 13.9 percent in 2009, the highest in 17 years, and minority communities continue to be disproportionately impacted by higher unemployment and will experience dramatically higher rates of poverty.“It is a shame that in a country so rich with resources, that we continue to ignore the issue of poverty among Americans. Sadly, the Republican-led Congress seems content to respond to our economic crisis by attempting to balance the budget on the backs of the poor and cutting vital programs that would keep our children off of the streets and in school and keep families in their homes and fight hunger. Consequently, many Americans are forced to make hard decisions between paying the rent, buying food, receiving health care or paying for utilities. These are impossible decisions that no one should have to make.“In an effort to address this dire situation in our country I introduced the Rewriting to Improve and Secure an Exit Out of Poverty Act (the RISE Out of Poverty Act or the RISE Act), an overhaul of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Block Grant(TANF). It is clear that for the past fifteen years TANF has systematically failed to adequately respond to the growing needs of our most vulnerable populations - eliminating entitlements, imposing harsh work requirements, and establishing barriers to education and training.“As a former welfare recipient who was able to work her way out of poverty, I understand the acute need to revamp this program that has been failing our most at-risk populations. It is time that we break down these barriers to assistance and provide low-income families with the support they need and deserve. The RISE Act will make sweeping, common sense reforms to the TANF program to ensure that it works for, rather than against the populations it was originally intended to serve.“As we emerge from the holiday season, it is critical that Congress and the entire country recommit to the fight against poverty and pursue a strong, sustained, and comprehensive response to help end hunger, homelessness and poverty in America. By defeating poverty we will restore our failing economy and put our nation back on a path to prosperity.”In an effort to bring attention to this national crisis, the Catholic Campaign for Human Development (CCHD) designated January as “Poverty in America Awareness Month.” To learn more about this initiative please click here. To learn more about Congresswoman Moore’s RISE Act, please click here.###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	Today, I am proud to join with all Americans as we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. As our nation commemorates Martin Luther King Jr. Day, let us remember the legacy of the man who spread a message of peace and justice and cha Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) joined the nation in commemorating the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. She released this statement:“Today, I am proud to join with all Americans as we celebrate the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. As our nation commemorates Martin Luther King Jr. Day, let us remember the legacy of the man who spread a message of peace and justice and challenged America to fulfill the true promise of Democracy.“It has been 44 years since the death of Dr. King, yet the movement that he sparked so many years ago still lives on through us all. Prior to his passing, Dr. King announced plans for a Poor People’s campaign. The effort was formed to shine a light on the plight of the poor and working poor, and would have culminated with a March on Washington demanding a $12 billion Economic Bill of Rights guaranteeing employment to the able-bodied, incomes to those unable to work and an end to housing discrimination.“Sadly, 44 years later this country continues to ignore the issue of poverty among Americans with a Republican-led Congress that seems content to respond to our economic crisis by attempting to balance the budget on the backs of the poor and cutting vital programs that would keep our children off of the streets and in school and keep families in their homes and fight hunger.“In the spirit of Dr. King and his ‘Dream’ for equality for all people, I introduced the Rewriting to Improve and Secure an Exit Out of Poverty Act (the RISE Out of Poverty Act or the RISE Act), an overhaul of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Block Grant(TANF). It is clear that for the past fifteen years TANF has systematically failed to adequately respond to the growing needs of our most vulnerable populations - eliminating entitlements, imposing harsh work requirements, and establishing barriers to education and training.“Today as we celebrate this great man and his remarkable courage in the struggle for justice and peace, let us recommit to providing economic relief to the millions who are suffering across this country by addressing the root causes of poverty. We must provide support for education, job training, childcare, fair and affordable housing, universal healthcare and a living wage in an environmentally sound and sustainable economy that provides opportunity for all people. Only then will we truly realize Dr. King’s ‘Dream’.”###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	For 39 years the Roe v. Wade decision has protected the reproductive choice of women giving them the opportunity to deal with the issue of unintended pregnancy in a safe and private manner. Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) recognized the 39th Anniversary of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision which is this Sunday, January 22. She released this statement:“For 39 years the Roe v. Wade decision has protected the reproductive choice of women giving them the opportunity to deal with the issue of unintended pregnancy in a safe and private manner.“Prior to this decision 1.2 million women resorted to illegal abortions each year where they encountered unsanitary conditions, unlicensed and unscrupulous doctors, and very dangerous situations. These ‘back-alley’ abortions often resulted in infection, hemorrhage, disfiguration and even death.“It is imperative that we not allow anyone to attempt to erode this decision that has been so crucial to women’s health.“The right to choose is an important and deeply personal decision that should be afforded to every woman. It is my hope that we continue to uphold this right so that women can continue to receive a full range of reproductive health services.”###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	The President delivered a great speech tonight. His vision for restoring the economic security to the middle class by focusing on American manufacturing, energy, skills for American workers, and a renewal of American values was a very timely message for Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address to Congress.“The President delivered a great speech tonight. His vision for restoring the economic security to the middle class by focusing on American manufacturing, energy, skills for American workers, and a renewal of American values was a very timely message for Congress and the people of this country.“I was particularly pleased to hear him focus on the need for reviving our manufacturing sector. After years of watching American companies ship jobs overseas, we are finally beginning to see entrepreneurs and manufacturers deciding to keep factories and production facilities here in the United States. This is evident in my home state of Wisconsin with companies like Master Lock which began bringing production back to Milwaukee—the same place where the company was founded in 1921. Manufacturing is a critical part of the economy in Wisconsin, and it will be important to invest in strengthening this industry to ensure that we have more good jobs here at home.“Additionally, his plans to invest in the education of our students, and training for our workers will be necessary to fill the jobs of the future and provide much needed opportunities for the long-term unemployed.“The President’s plans to expand American energy by investing in American energy sources and alternative energy will be extremely important as we work to create a cleaner, greener environment.“Paramount in his speech was the need for a return to American values in this country - a country where everyone gets a fair shot and we provide for the most vulnerable of our society.“It is my hope that my colleagues will heed the President’s call to work together for the betterment of our country. We have a responsibility to govern, and not simply block all progress for the American people as the Republicans have done since President Obama took office. It is our moral obligation as Members of Congress to continue to fight on behalf of our constituents and our country so that they can achieve the ‘American Dream."###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	Since 1926, Americans have recognized black history annually, first as •Negro History Week' and later as Black History Month. Every February, we come together as a nation to reflect on the many contributions of African Americans in this country and t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month.“Since 1926, Americans have recognized black history annually, first as ‘Negro History Week’ and later as Black History Month. Every February, we come together as a nation to reflect on the many contributions of African Americans in this country and throughout the world.“Black history is American history. From the beautiful poetry of Langston Hughes, to the fortitude of Ida B. Wells, to the sweet sounds of Stevie Wonder, to local Wisconsin trailblazers like Vel Phillips and Reuben K. Harpole, Jr. – black history has and continues to be intricately woven into the fabric of our nation.“As we celebrate Black History Month, it is important that we also honor Dr. Carter G. Woodson who had the vision for the celebration of black history, and more importantly for the study of black history. Without his efforts, black history wouldn’t have even been documented so that we might pass on this invaluable knowledge.“Additionally, it is important that during this Black History Month that we rededicate ourselves to addressing the issues that disproportionately affect communities of color such as high unemployment, access to affordable health care, access to quality education, and poverty.“Throughout the month of February and beyond I encourage all people, in my district and across this country, to learn about the many and varied contributions of African Americans to the growth and betterment of our nation.###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	Today's jobs report was very encouraging on a variety of fronts. With 257,000 jobs added by private businesses, this marks the 23rd consecutive month of private sector job growth. Additionally, we are seeing increases in pay and significant growth in Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the announcement by the Department of Labor that the economy added 243,000 jobs in January and the unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent:“Today’s jobs report was very encouraging on a variety of fronts. With 257,000 jobs added by private businesses, this marks the 23rd consecutive month of private sector job growth. Additionally, we are seeing increases in pay and significant growth in the manufacturing sector.“Most notably, African American unemployment dropped from 15.8 to 13.6 percent. This is the first time in months that we have seen any significant positive change in the employment numbers for African Americans.“While this is good news, we still have a long way to go to ensure that we are providing greater opportunities for employment for all Americans."###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	I am extremely pleased to hear that Komen will continue their partnership with Planned Parenthood. The services provided by Planned Parenthood are so critical to women and families – particularly those who are low-income. Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released this statement following the announcement by the Susan G. Komen for the Cure that it will revise its grant requirements and restore funding to Planned Parenthood:“I am extremely pleased to hear that Komen will continue their partnership with Planned Parenthood. The services provided by Planned Parenthood are so critical to women and families – particularly those who are low-income.“Over the past few days the groundswell of support from the community for Planned Parenthood and the overall commitment to fight against breast cancer has been both inspiring and amazing. We have once again proved that the power truly belongs to the people.“We must never politicize women’s health. The issue of combating breast cancer is bigger than any partisan politics. Let us continue to work together so that we can once and for all find a cure for this disease.”###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	More than thirty years since the first cases of AIDS were reported, HIV continues to devastate the United States. Sadly, the African American community bears the brunt of the HIV/AIDS epidemic - with blacks representing only 12 percent of the population Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (W-4) released this statement acknowledging National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day.“More than thirty years since the first cases of AIDS were reported, HIV continues to devastate the United States. Sadly, the African American community bears the brunt of the HIV/AIDS epidemic - with blacks representing only 12 percent of the population yet accounting for 44 percent of all new HIV infections in 2009.“While the number of new HIV infections per year among blacks is down from its peak in the late 1980’s, it has exceeded the number of infections among whites since that time. Even more devastating is the fact that the AIDS diagnosis rate for black men was the highest of any group, followed by black women.“It is past time that we shine a light on this critical health issue that continues to plague our community and work to create real solutions that will save precious lives.“In honor of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness day and this year’s theme ‘Changing the course of HIV/AIDS, 1 Black Life at a time’, I call upon everyone to take action now by raising awareness within our community and educating people on how to protect themselves from this deadly disease. I applaud the organizers of this worthwhile effort and will continue to work with them and others to bring an end to the scourge of HIV/AIDS both in this country and across the globe.”National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day was created in 2001 by a coalition of five national non-profit organizations to raise awareness about HIV/AIDS among the African American community. Celebrated each year on February 7th, National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day encourages African Americans and all Americans to “Get Educated, Get Involved, and Get Tested”. For more information on National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day or how to get tested visit www.blackaidsday.org.###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	Today's announcement reaffirms President Obama and his administration's commitment to ensuring women are able to access birth control as part of their overall health care. I believe this decision is sensitive to the concerns of religious institut Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement on the Obama administration’s announcement on the birth control coverage benefit under the Affordable Care Act:“Today’s announcement reaffirms President Obama and his administration’s commitment to ensuring women are able to access birth control as part of their overall health care. I believe this decision is sensitive to the concerns of religious institutions yet maintains critical access to coverage for women without an increased cost burden. I applaud the administration’s diligence in navigating this delicate balancing act between religious ideology and women’s health.“While this is a welcomed announcement I remain cautiously optimistic as I recognize that there will still be those that will continue to fight against access to much this needed contraception. This is a clear reminder that as long as we have a flawed employer-based health insurance system rather than some kind of public option, the disabled, those with pre-existing conditions – and in this case women – could be subjected to the ideology of their employers.“It is my hope that the administration will continue to stand up for the rights of women and their reproductive health. I will continue my advocacy here in Congress to ensure that women have a voice regarding their health.”### For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
02.22.2012	It was so wonderful to have President Obama come to Milwaukee to highlight the great investments that Master Lock has made in our city. It is my hope that Master Lock will be a model for other companies here in my district and across this country on the Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) accompanied President Barack Obama on Air Force One to Milwaukee and on a tour of the Master Lock facility. She released this statement:“It was so wonderful to have President Obama come to Milwaukee to highlight the great investments that Master Lock has made in our city. It is my hope that Master Lock will be a model for other companies here in my district and across this country on the benefits of ‘insourcing.’“The President’s budget proposes major investments that will encourage other companies to follow Master Lock’s lead. This includes $140.8 billion for research and development and tax incentives for manufacturers to create jobs here at home.“Today, the city of Milwaukee and the 4th Congressional District of Wisconsin served as a shining example of how investing in America can help us begin to rebuild our economy."###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	While I have some reservations about this legislation, I believe the passing of this of this bill is a positive step in the right direction and a great victory for the American people. Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement following the passage of the Temporary Payroll tax Cut Continuation Act. The legislation passed by a vote of 293-132. She released this statement:“While I have some reservations about this legislation, I believe the passing of this of this bill is a positive step in the right direction and a great victory for the American people.“This bill addresses our immediate economic priorities. It extends the payroll tax cut for 160 million Americans, ensures tens of millions of seniors can continue to see the doctor of their choice under Medicare, and extends unemployment benefits for the millions of hard-working Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own – including about 31,000 Wisconsinites.“There is still much work to do to keep our economic recovery moving in a positive direction for all Americans – particularly those most in need. We must continue to move forward in a bipartisan manner to do what is right for the American people.”###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	On Saturday, February 25, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with Senators Herb Kohl and Ron Johnson will host Academy Day 2012. This event will allow prospective service academy students the opportunity to speak with cadets and midshipmen. share: f t Milwaukee, WI –On Saturday, February 25, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with Senators Herb Kohl and Ron Johnson will host Academy Day 2012. This event will allow prospective service academy students the opportunity to speak with cadets and midshipmen. Additionally, students will be briefed on important procedures regarding the application process. The appointment process for the academies is extremely competitive. Students will be evaluated on both their academic ability and leadership skills.“Every year, I am so pleased to be able to provide students from my congressional district with an opportunity to be appointed to a U.S. Service Academy,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “U.S. Service Academies provide a top-notch education and provide students the tools and knowledge necessary to serve our nation. I encourage all those who are interested to attend this event and learn about the many opportunities offered by our U.S. Service Academies.”Applications must be received by October 19, 2012 to be considered. For additional information on the program and to download the application, please click here.WHO: Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4)Senator Herb Kohl & Senator Ron JohnsonREPRESENTATIVES FROM THE FOLLOWING ACADEMIES:U.S. Coast Guard Academy U.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Merchant Marine Academy U.S. Military Academy at West PointU.S. Naval AcademyWHAT: Academy Day 2012 Military Meet and GreetWHEN: Saturday, February 25, 20129:00 AMWHERE: Hamilton High School Auditorium6215 West Warnimont AvenueMilwaukee, WI 53220-1399###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.22.2012	This is good news. A sharp drop in unemployment and a year of consecutive private-sector job growth shows that the Democratic policies set by Congress and the President are working. But make no mistake: we have a long way to go. Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after it was reported that the economy added 103,000 jobs last month:“This is good news. A sharp drop in unemployment and a year of consecutive private-sector job growth shows that the Democratic policies set by Congress and the President are working. But make no mistake: we have a long way to go. “Unemployment and joblessness in Milwaukee’s African American community is among the highest in the country. We must do better. Progress is good, and we must ensure that everyone can share in it.”###
02.16.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder seeking to ensure that funds from the recent foreclosure and mortgage-servicing settlement would in fact be used to assist troubled homeowners and not for other means. share: f t Letter sent in response to Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walkers attempt to use settlement funds for budget shortfallWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder seeking to ensure that funds from the recent foreclosure and mortgage-servicing settlement would in fact be used to assist troubled homeowners and not for other means. This action is in response to the decision by Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen to use a portion of the state’s $140 million share of the settlement to help the state budget instead of its intended purpose.The letter reads as follows:February 16, 2012Attorney General Eric HolderU.S. Department of Justice950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20530-0001Dear Attorney General Holder:As you may know, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen recently indicated their intention to use a portion of the state’s $140 million share of a national settlement over foreclosure and mortgage-servicing abuses to help the state budget rather than assist troubled homeowners. Governor Walker claimed the funds would be spent to close a budget deficit in response to the State’s unanticipated revenue shortfall. I strongly believe that this action would be inconsistent with the context and intent of the lawsuit and unfair to the people of Wisconsin, who continue to struggle as a result of the fraudulent behavior of Wall Street.Therefore, I respectfully request your Department’s attention to this matter and urge you to work to ensure that all settlement funds are used for their rightful purpose. It is my understanding that the language of the agreement is not yet finalized. I would encourage your Department to work to include language that states that servicer payments can only be used in accordance with the intent and context of the lawsuit.It is disingenuous for Governor Walker and Attorney General Van Hollen to siphon money from this agreement that was meant to help Wisconsinites to bailout the state budget. The funds from the settlement should be used as they were intended - to help the victims of the housing crisis in Wisconsin whose homes were foreclosed upon. As the language of the settlement agreement is finalized, I urge your Department to work in any way possible to include fair and concise guidelines to ensure these funds are used for their intended purpose.I applaud President Obama and his Administration’s commitment to vigorously pursue its investigation of mortgage services, putting in place new protective guidelines to guard consumers against unscrupulous lenders and bringing about justice for those who have fallen victim to predatory practices. This settlement is an extremely positive step towards bringing relief to the thousands of desperate homeowners and deeply affected victims of unfair mortgage loan servicing practices and foreclosure abuses in my state. It is my hope that you can make certain Wisconsinites receive the much needed assistance that they deserve.Thank you in advance to your urgent attention to this matter.Sincerely,Gwen S. Moore (WI-4)Member of Congress###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.13.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the decision by Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen to use a portion of the state's $140 million share of a national settleme share: f t Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement in response to the decision by Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen to use a portion of the state’s $140 million share of a national settlement over foreclosure and mortgage-servicing abuses to help the state budget rather than assist troubled homeowners.“Thousands of Wisconsin families continue to struggle as a result of the fraudulent behavior of Wall Street. It is simply not fair for Governor Walker and Attorney General Van Hollen to siphon money from this agreement that was meant to help Wisconsinites to bailout the state budget. I believe the monies from the settlement should be used as they were intended - to help the struggling families of Wisconsin whose homes were foreclosed upon. I call upon Mr. Walker and Mr. Van Hollen to use those funds specifically for those purposes.”###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.13.2012	As a Member of the House Budget Committee, I feel that President Obama has presented Congress with a very fair and balanced budget. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement on President Obama’s proposed budget for the 2013 fiscal year:“As a Member of the House Budget Committee, I feel that President Obama has presented Congress with a very fair and balanced budget.“I was particularly pleased to see that the President’s budget includes investments that would be critically important for Milwaukee, and for Wisconsin as a whole. For example, he has emphasized infrastructure and manufacturing – a vital job sector in my district – which will help rebuild and grow our economy.“The proposals outlined in the budget add up to over $350 billion in short-term job creation programs that would start working this year. This includes $140.8 billion for research and development, tax incentives for manufacturers to create jobs here at home and $476 billion for transportation and infrastructure programs over six years - including new rail and road projects, such as inter-city passenger rail.“Additionally, the President’s budget protects the social safety net, and holds a great deal of promise for unemployed people and families in need in places like Milwaukee, Wisconsin—which has been decimated not only by the economy, but by the truly extreme budget cuts that Governor Scott Walker has perpetrated against the people of the state by cutting programs such as local aid and school funding to the bone.“The President also recognizes that we must take a responsible, balanced approach to budgeting. That’s why this budget includes revenues. For every $1 in revenue that the budget would raise from high-income earners and corporations, the plan would cut $2.50 in spending. That amounts to over $1.5 trillion in new taxes for the wealthy, hedge fund managers, and corporations.“Through this balanced approach, the budget put forth by the President today would achieve four trillion in deficit reduction over ten years. The budget’s revenue streams reflect our need to ensure that everyone, including the wealthiest Americans, pay their fair share.“Overall, this is a blueprint for getting back on track by making essential investments—while reducing the deficit at the same time. I support the President’s effort and look forward to working to put forward the best possible budget through my role on the House Budget Committee."###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.09.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in favor of the STOCK Act, which would explicitly ban insider trading by members of Congress and their aides on non-public information. Additionally the bill would impose new disclosure requirements under which share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in favor of the STOCK Act, which would explicitly ban insider trading by members of Congress and their aides on non-public information. Additionally the bill would impose new disclosure requirements under which lawmakers must publicly report any stock or securities transaction within 45 days of when the transaction occurs. She released this statement."While I do have some concerns regarding the removal of certain Senate provisions from the House bill, I believe this legislation is a good step toward further clarification of current law.“It is my hope that this legislation gives comfort to the American people that the information provided to Members of Congress is being used for the public good and not personal gain."###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.08.2012	Rep. Moore, along with 99 of her colleagues, were recognized for their legislative work to help advance this generation of children. share: f t Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) was acknowledged for her efforts to help America’s children.Rep. Moore, along with 99 of her colleagues, were recognized for their legislative work to help advance this generation of children. “I’m honored to receive this recognition,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “In our current economy, it is increasingly important to not let our children fall through the cracks. As the song says, ‘the children are our future,’ therefore we must ensure that our children have the necessary support and resources to be successful in this world – the strength of our nation depends on it.”This past year, Rep. Moore has taken positive steps towards helping low-income children. In March, she introduced the School Social Workers Improving Student Success Act. “It has been proven that high-risk students perform better in schools where social workers are active and present. This legislation would help ensure that these social workers are hired and retained.” In addition to helping at-risk children at school Rep. Moore, along with Congressman Jim McGovern (MA-3), sponsored a letter to FY 2012 Agriculture Appropriations Conferees requesting they allot sufficient funds to ensure these children will have food assistance through the WIC program.In December, she introduced the Rewriting to Improve and Secure an Exit Out of Poverty Act (the RISE Act). Among other actions to help low income families, this Act would guarantee child care for TANF work-eligible recipients, as well as stipulate that the number one goal of TANF is child poverty reduction.“As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to do everything we can to help our children. I have always and will continue to put our children first.”First Focus Campaign for Children is a national bipartisan children's advocacy organization based in Washington, DC. This award is part of their campaign to recognize the top 100 Members of Congress who advocate on behalf of children in policy and budget decisions. To find out more about First Focus Campaign for Children, visit their website at http://www.ffcampaignforchildren.org/###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow Gwen Mooreon Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.08.2012	Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the release of over $1.2 million in grant funding for the Housing Authority of the City of Milwaukee. share: f t Funding to Help HACM Provide Education and Job Training for their ResidentsWashington, D.C. – Recently, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), along with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), announced the release of over $1.2 million in grant funding for the Housing Authority of the City of Milwaukee.This grant is part of the Capital Fund Education and Training Community Facilities (CFCF) program that uses these funds to construct or renovate facilities that offer educational opportunities to low income children and adults. The grant program allocates funding for job training as well. CFCF supplies this capital through Public Housing Agencies that provide these services. Through this grant, the Housing Authority of the City of Milwaukee will offer adult learning and job training courses to housing residents. These funds will be used to renovate and construct a 5,890 square foot facility to educate public housing residents. With over 50,000 unemployed Milwaukee area inhabitants, this grant will be beneficial in boosting the local economy. “This funding will offer low income residents the opportunity to enhance their education and job marketability,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “If we wish to facilitate economic growth, we must do everything we can to put Americans back to work."###For "Moore" News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.07.2012	This evening, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (W-4) will join Planned Parenthood of Metro Washington for a reception and the DC Screening of the new documentary "A Vital Service: African American Stories of Reproductive Health Care." share: f t Documentary Highlights Critical Need for Access to Health Services for African AmericansWashington, DC –This evening, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (W-4) will join Planned Parenthood of Metro Washington for a reception and the DC Screening of the new documentary “A Vital Service: African American Stories of Reproductive Health Care.”“A Vital Service” is an original documentary produced by Planned Parenthood Federation of America that provides a powerful glance at the clinicians, educators, patients, activists, and supporters in African-American communities. The film includes personal stories from the women and families who have benefitted from having access to the critical health services offered at Planned Parenthood health centers.“We all know that African Americans face numerous obstacles to obtaining affordable, high-quality health care services,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Reducing health disparities and increasing access to preventive health services such as birth control is part of a true civil rights agenda. Regrettably, some of my colleagues are pursuing a more divisive agenda such as the Prenatal Nondiscrimination Act. Instead, I urge them to focus on the real issues affecting the African-American community such as affordable health care and well paying jobs.”“This documentary highlights the amazing work Planned Parenthood has been doing to reduce racial disparities in reproductive health care, including the high rates of cancers, sexually transmitted infections, and unintended pregnancy among African Americans.”“A Vital Service” aims to spur a dialogue on topics that are often seen as taboo or difficult, particularly in the African-American community. The film can be used to build support for important services, such as cancer screenings, Pap tests, affordable birth control, and testing and treatment of sexually transmitted infections. And it can help eliminate the stigma associated with talking about sexual and reproductive health.The reception and screening will be followed by a Q&A panel discussing the critical role that health care reform and women’s health care programs play in reducing health disparities.WHO:Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4)Jamal Simmons, Political Analyst and Principal at the Raben Group (Moderator)PANELISTSJirair Ratevosian, Legislative Director, Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA-9)Jamila Perritt, Medical Director, Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington DCDr. Alicia Smith-Withers, Board Member, Religious Coalition for Reproductive ChoiceTanisha Humphrey, Advocates for Youth Student Activist, Georgetown UniversityJasmine Burnett, Founder & Lead Organizer, SisterSong NYC; National Mobilization Chair, Trust Black Women PartnershipWHAT: A Vital Service: African American Stories of Reproductive Health Care Documentary ScreeningWHEN: Tuesday, February 7, 20125:30PMWHERE: Capitol Visitors Center, SVC 212-210Washington, DC(One the Senate Side of the Capitol Visitors Center)
02.03.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced a bill that will take important steps towards ensuring that parents and legal guardians are afforded legal representation in all stages of a child welfare case. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced a bill that will take important steps towards ensuring that parents and legal guardians are afforded legal representation in all stages of a child welfare case.There are over 400,000 kids in the foster care system in the United States, many because their parents or guardians are accused of abuse or neglect. Professionals and parents agree that removing a child from his or her family can be traumatic and that foster care in many cases does a poor job of preparing children to adulthood. For this reason, child welfare law is structured, through federal law incentives, to limit removal of children from their home unless absolutely necessary for the child’s safety, and promotes their reunification with their family. New research powerfully supports these goals by showing that children often have better life outcomes when efforts are directed towards keeping a family together.“A vast majority of current federal dollars are spent towards the administrative costs of running the system and the overall cost of foster care, yet very little funding is designated towards ensuring that parents - especially low-income and minorities - have quality legal representation throughout all stages of a child welfare case,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “High quality counsel help parents access necessary services, advocate for increased visitation, negotiate reasonable and realistic case plans, and provide parents with someone who is on their side. It is for these reasons, that I have introduced this legislation to ensure that parents are afforded quality legal representation across all stages of child welfare proceedings.”One of the most fundamental arenas for ensuring the safety, stability and permanence for abused and neglected children is through our nation’s court systems. Recently reauthorized under the Promoting Safe and Stable Families program (IV-B of the Social Security Act), The Court Improvement Program (CIP) has been instrumental in improving child welfare outcomes in state courts. The CIP has helped reduce the caseload delay, and also worked to stimulate fresh approaches to improving the court outcomes of children and their families.“This legislation builds upon the successful framework of the CIP, adding an additional component for parental legal representation,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Child outcomes improve and courts function more effectively when all parties have quality legal representation. This legislation gives parents, alongside officials and judges, a voice when the best interests of their child are at stake.“Our overall goal is to keep families together, not tear them apart. This legislation is a positive step towards sustaining the American family."###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
02.03.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to the conference report to the FAA Air Transportation Modernization and Safety Improvement Act (H.R. 658). The House approved the conference report by a 248-169 vote. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to the conference report to the FAA Air Transportation Modernization and Safety Improvement Act (H.R. 658). The House approved the conference report by a 248-169 vote. She released this statement:“Rather than bring a ‘clean’ FAA bill to the floor that would make the needed system improvements - including the adoption of the Next Generation system to keep up with rising demands, and provide greater consumer protections - House Republicans chose to channel Scott Walker and add labor provisions that could make it harder for unions in the railroad and aviation industry to organize. It is for this reason that I could not in good conscience support this legislation.“Let me be clear - I fully support modernizing our nation’s aviation system to ensure greater protections for travelers including members of our military and the diligent and hardworking federal employees who continue to maintain and operate this system safely and efficiently. Additionally, there are several provisions in the FAA reauthorization conference report that I support, including an amendment I authored asking the Department of Transportation Inspector General to examine the airports that have successfully incorporated small, minority-owned and disadvantage business enterprises into federally funded projects and making recommendations on how to spread those best practices across the nation. “Unfortunately, my Republican colleagues have once again chosen to inject partisan politics into what should be a purely bi-partisan piece of legislation.“We need an aviation system that works for everyone, including the employees of the system. This cannot be achieved through this piece of partisan legislation which pits unions and longstanding labor protections against each other.”###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
01.23.2012	It is a longstanding tradition to invite national and local figures to the address who have made a positive impact on our country. Congresswoman Moore joins a number of her colleagues in honoring our troops and their unwavering commitment to our country b share: f t Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) will host Major General Marcia M. Anderson as her special invited guest for the annual State of the Union address by President Obama.It is a longstanding tradition to invite national and local figures to the address who have made a positive impact on our country. Congresswoman Moore joins a number of her colleagues in honoring our troops and their unwavering commitment to our country by inviting a service member from her Congressional District to sit in the House gallery for the address.“I am so pleased to have Major General Marcia M. Anderson join me tomorrow evening for the President’s address,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “She has distinguished herself as a leader among her peers, becoming the Army’s first African American female two-star general, and continues to serve our country with honor and integrity.“Our service men and women have given so much to this country, and invitation to the State of the Union is the least we can do to show our eternal gratitude for their service.”Major General Marcia M. Anderson has commanded at the Company level through General Officer. She has also served in a variety of staff positions at Battalion, Brigade, and Division level to include S-1, S-3, S-4, and G-1, as well as an Assistant Division G-3. In July 2005, she assumed Command of the 6th Brigade, 95th Division (Institutional Training), where she was responsible for the 95th Division (Institutional Training) Drill Sergeant School located at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, as well as the conduct of Intermediate Level Education (ILE) and Combined Arms Exercise courses for officer professional development over an eight state area. In June 2006, General Anderson was appointed acting Assistant Division Commander-Operations for the 95th Division (Institutional Training) in Oklahoma City, Okla. In April 2007, she was confirmed for promotion to Brigadier General and in October 2007, assumed command of the 85th Support Command (Regional Support Group West), Arlington Heights, Ill., which supports the collective training efforts of First Army. General Anderson was later named Deputy Commanding General-Support of First Army West. She assumed responsibility as Deputy Commander of the U.S. Army Human Resources Command 1 October 2010. Effective 1 October 2011, Major General Anderson was assigned as the Deputy Chief, Army Reserve (IMA) with duty at the Pentagon. Individual Mobilization Augmentee (IMA) positions perform special missions and projects and may also be ordered to active duty. Her military education includes the Adjutant General Basic and Advance courses, Basic and Intermediate Government Auditing, Command and General Staff College Course, Advanced Joint Professional Military Education, Capstone, and the United States Army War College, where she was awarded a Masters Degree in Strategic Studies. General Anderson has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science from Creighton University and a Juris Doctorate degree from Rutgers University School of Law. Her military awards and decorations include the Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal (with 3 Oak Leaf Clusters), Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, Parachutist Badge, and Physical Fitness Badge.As a citizen-Soldier, General Anderson is employed by the United States Courts, where she serves as the Clerk of Bankruptcy Court, Western District of Wisconsin, located in Madison, WI. She is married to Amos Anderson. ###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
01.20.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) applauded the decision by the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to ensure access to affordable birth control, and not further expand the refusal provision to the birth control coverage benefit under share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) applauded the decision by the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to ensure access to affordable birth control, and not further expand the refusal provision to the birth control coverage benefit under the Affordable Care Act.The ruling from HHS implements a key provision of the Affordable Care Act requiring that employers cover preventive health services, including birth control, free of charge through their health plans. HHS announced today that it will maintain its current exemption for churches, rather than expanding it more broadly, but religiously-affiliated organizations such as church-affiliated hospitals, universities, social service organizations and similar institutions will be given a year-long phase-in to comply with the rule.“This is a victory for women across this country,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Not only will women be able to continue to receive birth control – a necessary preventative health measure for women - but it will remain affordable which is crucial in these tough economic times. I am pleased that the administration has once again chosen to stand up for the rights of women and affirm their commitment to providing them with the health services they deserve."###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow Gwen Mooreon Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
01.19.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) expressed disappointment in Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker's decision to turn down Early Innovator Grant funding from the federal government which would have helped implement a health insurance exchange. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) expressed disappointment in Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker’s decision to turn down Early Innovator Grant funding from the federal government which would have helped implement a health insurance exchange. She released this statement:“Once again Governor Walker has ignored the needs of the people Wisconsin in an effort to appease the Tea Party by turning down federal funding that would have assisted the state in establishing a much needed health insurance exchange.“Under Scott Walker’s Democratic predecessor, Jim Doyle, Wisconsin was making great strides toward improving our health systems – expanding Medicaid coverage and upgrading the state’s IT systems. In many ways, we were several steps ahead of the Affordable Care Act Congress passed and President Obama signed into law in 2010.“Instead of building on these efforts Scott Walker has chosen to thwart this progress, blocking much needed funding and potential jobs from people of Wisconsin.“This is simply unacceptable. I will continue to fight to ensure that the people of Wisconsin get the health services they need and deserve.”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
01.04.2012	Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), applauded President Obama's announcement that he will appoint Richard Cordray as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau during the Senate recess. share: f t Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), applauded President Obama’s announcement that he will appoint Richard Cordray as head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau during the Senate recess. She released the following statement:“For more than six months Republicans have obstructed the appointment of Richard Cordray in an effort to protect their special interests and prevent the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau from fulfilling its mandate to ensure that consumers get the information they need to make the financial decisions they believe are best for themselves and their families.“Throughout his career Richard Cordray has fought to uphold the rights of the American Consumer. I am confident that he will continue to work to ensure that all Americans are given the necessary consumer resources and protected from any unfair, deceptive or abusive financial practices as head of this very important agency.“I applaud President Obama for taking this bold step on behalf of the American people.”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.23.2011	Milwaukee, WI – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement following the passage of the Unemployment Compensation, Payroll Tax Cut Extension. She released this statement:“Today is a great day for the American people. This extension will ensure 160 million Americans will not see their taxes go up and 2.2 million Americans will not lose their unemployment benefits – including about 31,000 Wisconsinites. What a wonderful gift to give the American people some financial stability and peace of mind for the holidays.“When Congress returns in the New Year, we must recommit ourselves to truly addressing the dire economic situation we currently face in this country and provide long-term sustainable relief to middle-class and low-income Americans.”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.22.2011	Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement regarding Wisconsin State Rep. Tamara Grigsby."I was extremely saddened to hear that State Rep. Tamara Grigsby had taken ill. Tamara is a very dear friend and a strong and dedicated advocate for the people of Wisconsin. As we approach this holiday season, I hope and pray that she has a full and speedy recovery. My thoughts and prayers continue to be with her and her family at this critical time."###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.22.2011	Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4), Co-Chair of the Caucus onWomen’s Issues, released the following statement regarding Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner’s remarks regarding First Lady Michelle Obama."It is unfortunate that my colleague Mr. Sensenbrenner would make such distasteful and demeaning comments about our First Lady Michelle Obama. His comments were inappropriate and have no place in our public discourse.“I am pleased that he has apologized to the First Lady and I would hope that he and all of my colleagues would use better judgment when making comments in the future.”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.22.2011	Milwaukee, WI - Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement upon news that a deal has been struck between the House and Senate on the two-month extension of the payroll tax cut. “Well I guess it’s true, miracles really do happen around the holidays. My Republican colleagues have finally come to their senses and agreed to pass the much-needed payroll tax-cut extension.“This extension will ensure middle and low-income Americans will not see their taxes go up and 1.8 million Americans will not or lose their unemployment benefits – including about 31,000 Wisconsinites.“What a wonderful gift to give the American people some financial stability and peace of mind for the holidays.“It is my hope that upon returning to Washington in the New Year that we work to enact real long-term legislation that will work on behalf of all Americans – particularly those most in need”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Gwen Moore (WI-4), Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, applauded the Obama Administration’s recently released National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security. The plan embodies and sets forth the United States’ commitment to ensuring that women around the world play an equal role in promoting peace and achieving just and enduring security. The goal of the plan is to empower half the world’s population as equal partners in preventing conflict and building peace in countries threatened and affected by war, violence and insecurity. Achieving this goal is critical to U.S. national and global security. “The creation of this plan represents a tremendous opportunity for women in the U.S. and abroad,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “By developing a plan that reflects our values and elevates the promotion of women, peace and security at all levels of our own government, we set an example that shows the U.S. indeed can walk the walk, not just talk the talk. This plan is a positive step in the right direction for our country.”The National Action Plan requires agencies, led by the Departments of State, Defense, and USAID, to come up with implementation plans to meet national objectives. “There is no question this plan is needed,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “At the State Department’s Women of Courage Award ceremony earlier this year, I heard inspiring stories of women from all corners of the world who choose, at great personal risks to themselves and their families, to make a difference in their nations. I also think about the courageous women who stood in Tahrir square in Egypt, faced down Qaddafi’s guns in Libya, and who helped end the rule of Zine el-Abidine Ben Ali' in Tunisia. “A strong U.S. plan will help these women and others to be genuine partners in building peace. I applaud Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Ambassador Verveer - for their strong and continued leadership and look forward to working to secure full and swift implementation of the key elements of this plan.” To learn more about the U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace and Security, please click here. ###For “Moore” News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement on Republican efforts to block passage of the Senate Amended Short-Term Extension of Unemployment Insurance and Payroll Tax Cuts.“I hope the American people are paying attention because during these past couple of days, Republicans have shown their true colors. Even with a majority of their own party voting in favor of this legislation in the Senate, House Republicans are willing to obstruct any sort of assistance to the American people – particularly the middle-class and low-income.“How shameful it is that Republicans would once again engage in political theater and in the process put the financial stability of American families in jeopardy. If they fail to act, on January 1st, Americans may see their taxes go up, lose their unemployment benefits – including about 31,000 Wisconsinites - and doctors’ Medicare payments will be slashed. This is simply unacceptable.“It’s time for Republicans to cut the games and pass this legislation. The American people need and deserve this.”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following statement following the Senate passage short-term extensions of the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits:“The Senate passage of short-term legislation is like putting a band-aid on a hemorrhaging wound – it is totally inadequate and does not fully address the dire economic situation we are currently facing in this country.“In fact, this legislation could possibly make things worse for many Americans in the hardest-hit states, who with little warning may lose access to their unemployment benefits under the 20-week Extended Benefits program.“Every day, more and more Americans are slipping into poverty. Census data released this week revealed that 1 in 2 Americans are poor or low-income. This legislation is a result of Republicans once again catering to millionaires and billionaires and kicking the middle-class and low-income to the curb.“The American people deserve better than this and I call on my colleagues to do away with these temporary band-aids and pass real legislation that can truly heal this country’s economic problems.”###For “Moore”News UpdatesFollow Gwen Mooreon Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Rush Holt (NJ-12) and U.S. Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) today led a group of 44 Members of Congress in expressing disappointment in the anti-scientific decision by U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius to limit the availability of Plan B emergency contraception.Last week, Secretary Sebelius overruled career scientists at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, who had recommended that emergency contraceptives be sold over-the-counter. As the Members wrote, “Science has confirmed that the drug is safe and effective with appropriate use and health experts have demonstrated that an age restriction is unnecessary. Your decision marks the first time a Health and Human Services Secretary has overruled FDA scientists. This is a profoundly troubling outcome from an Administration that stated science should be the foundation for such decisions. As you look ahead to future decisions affecting the health of millions of women, including those relating to birth control access, we urge you to put science first.”The full text of the letter follows below.Secretary Kathleen SebeliusU.S. Department of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, D.C. 20500 Dear Secretary Sebelius,We write to express our disappointment over your decision not to make the emergency contraceptive Plan B available over the counter for all girls of reproductive age. Emergency contraception is a safe and effective medication that prevents pregnancy if taken soon after sexual intercourse. As you know, emergency contraception does not cause an abortion, but prevents pregnancy. Emergency contraception has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) since 1999. In 2006, the FDA approved emergency contraception for over the counter sales for individuals ages 18 and older, and it has been available over the counter for women age 17 and older since 2009. Providing emergency contraception over the counter for all girls of reproductive age would be consistent with the policies of many countries around the world, including the United Kingdom. Denying over the counter access will harm the effort to prevent unintended pregnancies.Science has confirmed that the drug is safe and effective with appropriate use and health experts have demonstrated that an age restriction is unnecessary. Your decision marks the first time a Health and Human Services Secretary has overruled FDA scientists. This is a profoundly troubling outcome from an Administration that stated science should be the foundation for such decisions. As you look ahead to future decisions affecting the health of millions of women, including those relating to birth control access, we urge you to put science first.Sincerely,Rep. Rush HoltRep. Gwen MooreRep. Charlie RangelRep. Barbara LeeRep. Sam FarrRep. Diana DeGetteRep. Chellie PingreeRep. George MillerRep. Bob FilnerRep. Pete StarkRep. Mike QuigleyRep. Laura RichardsonRep. Alcee HastingsRep. Linda SanchezRep. Jerrold NadlerRep. Carolyn MaloneyRep. Steve CohenRep. Eleanor Holmes NortonRep. Joseph CrowleyRep. Gerry ConnollyRep. Jesse Jackson Jr.Rep. James McGovernRep. Peter DeFazio Rep. Adam Smith Rep. Gary Ackerman Rep. Lynn Woolsey Rep. John Olver Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Chris Murphy Rep. Mike Honda Rep. Kathy Castor Rep. Nita Lowey Rep. Niki TsongasRep. Ted DeutchRep. Edolphus TownsRep. Steven RothmanRep. Janice HahnRep. Doris MatsuiRep. Lucille Roybal-AllardRep. Rosa DeLauroRep. William KeatingRep. Jay Inslee
12.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted against the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act (the REINS Act), that would essentially prevent federal agencies from protecting our public health. Under the REINS Act, Congress would have to approve every “major rule” regulatory proposal, consequently degrading our water supply, our food supply, workplace safety, and product safety. In addition, this Act would further reign in the ability of Veterans Affairs to effectively provide needed support and services to our nations veterans. The measure passed by a vote of 241-184.“Time and time again, Republicans have advocated for legislation that would dirty our air and water supply, injure our workers and consumers, destroy our environment, and harm our veterans,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “In a time where millions of Americans are unemployed, legislation that would further hurt our citizens is inexcusable.“Supporters of this Act claim that the cost of regulations harm the economy. However, the lack of regulations harm human life. One cannot place a price tag on the value of a human. People are not commodities. Our veterans are not commodities.” Representative Moore introduced an amendment to the REINS Act that would exempt any rule relating to veterans. Her amendment was not adopted.“The REINS Act would add yet another process to the already convoluted veterans services procedures,” said Rep. Moore. “With more soldiers dying from suspected suicide than from hostile combat, the last thing our service men and woman need is a longer and more cumbersome system. They cannot afford to wait for services to which they are entitled. “Additionally, The REINS Act would disassemble regulations that have kept our nations citizens healthy for decades. “Ironically, the REINS Act would undermine federal regulations that were created by Republicans. This Act would prevent Teddy Roosevelt’s food and safety regulations as well as subsequent legislation that allowed federal land agencies to protect Americas environmental gems. “In these desperate economic times, the last thing Americans need from their Congress is an attack on their health and safety.”Opponents to the REINS Act include: AFL-CIO; AFSCME; American Lung Association, Breast Cancer Action; Consumers Union; Easter Seals; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace, & Agricultural Implement Workers of America; Natural Resources Defense Council; OMB Watch; People for the American Way; Public Citizen; Service Employees International Union; Union of Concerned Scientists; United Food and Commercial Workers International Union; and U.S. PIRG.Click here to view Rep. Moore’s speech on the House floor.For a copy of the full amendment, please contact Nicole Y. Williams at (202) 225-4572.###For "Moore" News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.07.2011	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Gwen Moore expressed her disappointment in a decision by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to overrule the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) proposal to significantly expand young women’s access to a critical medication that can prevent unintended pregnancies.“I regret that HHS has stepped in and overridden the FDA’s long-overdue decision to remove the unnecessary age restriction on Plan B One-Step emergency contraception,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “The FDA’s proposal would have meant that emergency contraception would be brought out from behind the pharmacy counter, onto the shelves with other similar contraceptive methods. Medical experts, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, agree that Plan B is perfectly safe for over-the-counter use for anyone at risk of an unintended pregnancy, including younger women. I fervently hope that HHS is not putting politics or ideology over science in their decision.” Plan B One-Step is a safe and effective emergency contraceptive that is meant to be taken within 72 hours after contraceptive failure or unprotected intercourse. Plan B prevents fertilization from happening, and does not work if the woman is already pregnant.“I thought we could all agree on the importance preventing unintended pregnancy, especially among teenagers,” said Rep. Moore. For the past few years, my home city of Milwaukee has worked very hard to reduce our epidemic teen birth rate. We’ve seen a 15% drop since 2005, when our teen birth rate was second in the nation only to Baltimore. But we still have a long way to go. A recent study released by United Way of Greater Milwaukee showed that statutory rape is among our biggest challenges to reducing teen pregnancy. Seventy-one percent of babies born to Milwaukee’s teenage girls were fathered by men at least 20 years of age. These pregnancies have serious consequences not only for these young women—who often experience tremendous isolation and vulnerability—but for their communities at large. Decisions like the one made today by HHS will only exacerbate the problem in places like Milwaukee.”###For "Moore" News UpdatesFollow GwenMoore on Twitter @RepGwenMooreandLike Gwen Moore onFacebook
12.06.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) introduced the Rewriting to Improve and Secure an Exit Out of Poverty Act (the RISE Out of Poverty Act or the RISE Act), an overhaul of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Block Grant(TANF). Original co-sponsors include Reps. Danny Davis (D-IL), Edolphus Towns (D-NY), John Conyers (D-MI), Benny Thompson (D-MS), Donna M. Christensen (D-VI), Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-DC), Pete Stark (D-CA), Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-IL), and Maxine Waters (D-CA).Fifteen years ago Congress replaced the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) Program with TANF - a program that eliminated entitlements, imposed work requirements, and established barriers to education and training. Fifteen years later we continue to mourn the failures of TANF and its inability to lift low-income families out of poverty.“When we ended welfare as we knew it, our economy was booming,” said rep. Gwen Moore. “The unemployment rate was 5.6 percent, there was unprecedented growth in employment and earnings among single-parent families, and the poverty rate fell to 13.7 percent. Instead of continuing to strengthen this safety net by building on the successes of AFDC we now find ourselves facing one of the worst poverty crises in the history of our country.“Today, the unemployment rate stands at 8.6 percent and despite recent economic growth more than 43 million Americans including 14.7 million children live in poverty, the highest in the more than 50 years since we have been tracking this data. Additionally, the poverty rate among women climbed to 14.5 percent in 2010 from 13.9 percent in 2009, the highest in 17 years.“It is clear that TANF has systematically failed to adequately respond to the growing needs of our most vulnerable populations. That is why I am pleased to introduce the RISE Act which would make sweeping, common sense reforms to the TANF program to ensure that it works for, rather than against, the populations it was originally intended to serve.”Key provisions of the RISE Act will:Index the block grant for both inflation and child population growth in the state since 1996. Replace the current contingency fund with one based on the Emergency Contingency Fund enacted in the Recovery Act which helped to create over 260,000 jobs, Lift all time limits on work participation requirements and the 30% state cap on education, Adjust the federal work participation requirements so that states could get credit when individuals with disabilities participate in work-related activities - even if the nature of those activities or the number of hours do not match the standard TANF requirements, Guarantee child care for TANF work-eligible recipients, Pass through all child support collected directly to the family, Eliminate full family sanctions and lifetime sanctions and establish a Pre- and Post-Sanction Review Process requiring states to continuously work with families that are subject to sanction or have already been sanctioned, Stop the clock during a recession, and Stipulate that the number one goal of TANF is child poverty reduction.“As a former welfare recipient who was able to work her way out of poverty with the help of AFDC, I understand the acute need to revamp this program that has been failing our most at-risk populations,” said Rep. Moore. “It is time that we break down these barriers to assistance and provide low-income families with the support they need and deserve.”Supporters of the RISE Act include: 9to5, National Association of Working Women; Campaign for Community Change, Center for Women Policy Studies, Coalition on Human Needs; Community Action Partnership; Legal Momentum; LIFETIME; Nashua Soup Kitchen & Shelter; Inc.; National Association of Social Workers, National Center for Law and Economic Justice; National Health Care for the Homeless Council; National Network to End Domestic Violence; NETWORK, A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby; The Arc of the United States; Welfare Warriors; Wisconsin Coalition Against Domestic Violence; Women for Economic Justice (WEJ); Women of Color Policy Network, NYU Wagner; YWCA.For a copy of the full legislation, please contact Nicole Y. Williams at (202) 225-4572. ###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.02.2011	Proposes amendment to protect Veterans, Seniors and Low-Income IndividualsWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to H.R. 3010, the Regulatory Accountability Act. During debate on the bill Rep. Moore proposed an amendment would ensure that a relevant executive agency considers the needs of our nation’s most vulnerable, at-risk subpopulations, including Veterans, low-income individuals, and the elderly, when considering new action. The amendment was not adopted. The bill passed by a vote of 253-167. She released this statement:“My Republican colleagues continue their sideshow by bringing bill after bill to the House floor claiming that they will create jobs by limiting the size and reach of government, and repealing regulations that help and protect millions of Americans.“Like magicians they try to convince the American public with sleight of hand and deception that the cost to industry far outweighs health and safety protections. “Once we get past all of the flashing lights, smoke and glitter we see that this bill that we are considering today is no different.“HR 3010 would do far more than just simply “modify” the executive rulemaking process. It would require agencies to adopt the least costly regulations, instead of taking the most protective steps necessary to ensure the health and safety of Americans, especially those most vulnerable. “It would also add dozens of new procedural hurdles, without any promise of additional resources, which could tie up agency action for years, when we know that so many Americans desperately need help right now. These tough economic times are hard for everyone, especially those that are disproportionately affected by the economic crisis. We no longer have time for tricks, illusions and silly gags.“We must stop the trickery and come back to reality. “We must agree that it is a good policy for executive agencies to consider our nation’s veterans who, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, face an 11.7 percent unemployment rate which is substantially higher than the national average“We must agree to consider the disproportionately damaging health affects that air pollutants have on our low-income communities as the EPA considers implementing provisions in the bipartisan Clean Air Act. “And we must agree that the executive branch must take into account the needs of our nation’s seniors who have become the subject of a dangerous debate in Washington over the future of entitlement programs.“It’s time to put down the magic wands and pick up our voting cards and support legislation that protects the least of these.”To view Congresswoman Moore’s floor statement, please click here.###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.01.2011	Stands up for Worker RightsWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to the “so-called” Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act. During debate on the bill Rep. Moore presented a motion to strike the enacting clause. Below are her remarks.“Mr. Chair, I hope all of my colleagues have gotten their tickets for the show because once again my Republican colleagues have turned the hallowed halls of Congress into a place for political theater, or better yet, a circus, and the joke is on working class Americans.“Today’s so-called Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act is another scene in this unfolding plot to undermine American workers.“It would be comedy if it weren’t such a tragedy for the American people. Every day, the American people are forced to play the part of the clown Pagliacci. They watch Republicans put on this performance – claiming to want to create jobs, while behind the scenes they work to dismantle the rights of the American worker. And like Pagliacci, the American people must learn to laugh with tears in their eyes.“Today’s installment of tragic theater stars the more appropriately renamed by my democratic colleagues - Election Prevention Act. This bill would permit employers to delay indefinitely a union election by mandating delays in the union election process and failing to place limits on how long an election can be delayed. These delays would allow more intimidation and harassment of employees, including hiring union busting companies.“In Wisconsin, we have seen this song and dance before. Under the guise of deficit reduction, Governor Walker rammed through legislation that cuts state employee benefits and strips unions of their collective bargaining rights.“Ohio too has seen this horrific curtain call with Governor John Kasich and the Ohio Republican legislature’s passage of State Bill 5.“But what Governors Walker and Kasich and so many others are not prepared for is the second act of this drama.“When the curtain opened on November 8th in Ohio voters flocked to the polls in record numbers, and with a resounding voice repealed SB5. Making it clear that they would not allow Republican politicians to take away the right of hard-working Americans.“The staging continues in my state – the great state of Wisconsin – where in just two weeks we have gathered 300,000 signatures poised to Recall Governor Scott Walker.“The American people will not be upstaged by this anti-union, anti-worker and anti-family play.“Our nation’s middle class is demanding to bargain for more of the wealth that they created. “Mr. Chair, this clear attack on workers’ rights departs from a long-preserved American tradition of democracy in the workplace. It’s time for us to close the curtain and pull the hook out on this circus act, and bring up the lights on real legislation that creates real jobs.”To view Congresswoman Moore’s floor statement, please click here.###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.01.2011	Washington, DC – Today, in commemoration of World AIDS Day, Congresswoman Gwen Moore called for a renewed focus and commitment across the globe to fighting the HIV/AIDS epidemic.“As we recognize World AIDS Day, we must all recommit ourselves – as a global community - to combating the scourge of HIV/AIDS.“Globally an estimated 33.3 million people have HIV. More than 25 million people between 1981 and 2007 have died from the virus, making it one of the most destructive pandemics in history.“In the United States, there are over 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS, and about 20 percent of them do not know they are infected. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there are approximately 50,000 new HIV infections every year and more than 16,000 people with AIDS died in 2008.“In my district, we have seen an increase in the number of cases with Milwaukee county accounting for 57 percent of all cases reported in the state. Additionally, we are seeing a dramatic increase of cases among African American men who have sex with men (MSM). Today, Young Black MSM accounted for 38% of cases with known risk exposure in Milwaukee County in 2010 compared to 6% in 2000.“Today, many scientific advances have been made in HIV treatment, there are laws to protect people living with HIV, and we understand so much more about the condition. Still, people do not know the facts about how to protect themselves and others from HIV, and stigma and discrimination remain a reality for many people living with HIV. World AIDS Day is important as it reminds the public and Government that HIV remains a huge across the globe. There is still a vital need to raise money, increase awareness, fight prejudice and improve education.“I have joined with my colleagues in support of a number of measures that address the HIV/AIDS epidemic including supporting critical HIV and hepatitis provisions in the Essential Health Benefits (EHB) package such as annual screening for HIV as a preventative procedure. I also support full funding for a range of HIV/AIDS programs, such as the Ryan White Care Act"In the spirit of World AIDS Day and this year's theme of ‘Getting to Zero’ - in hopes of achieving zero new HIV infections, zero discrimination and zero AIDS-related deaths - I call on my colleagues to take advantage of this moment and come together in a bipartisan manner with the administration to find the will and the funding necessary to stop this disease.”World AIDS Day is held on 1 December each year and is an opportunity for people worldwide to unite in the fight against HIV, show their support for people living with HIV and to commemorate people who have died. World AIDS Day was the first ever global health day and the first one was held in 1988.###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
12.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) praised a letter sent by 50 BadgerCare advocate groups to Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius calling for the agency to deny the recent request from the Wisconsin Department of Health Services (DHS) for a waiver of federal maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements. “This request for a waiver of federal MOE requirement is just another attempt by our wayward Governor Scott Walker to balance the budget on the backs of the low-income Wisconsinites,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “During these tough economic times we need to be figuring out how to increase health services to the less fortunate, not strip them away. “I want to applaud all of the advocate groups who have joined together to stand up for the rights of these families and ensure that they receive the health services that they deserve.”The letter in part stated, “The effects of the changes proposed by DHS are clearly at odds with congressional intent to significantly reduce the number of uninsured Americans by building on the Medicaid and CHIP coverage that states already have in place.” “Approval of the DHS waiver request would be very damaging for Wisconsin and a dangerous national precedent. A waiver would reduce BadgerCare coverage by more than 64,000 people and would conflict with the MOE requirements of federal law. A waiver would increase bureaucratic red tape and the number of uninsured children in Wisconsin, reversing decades of progress made on both fronts under Republican and Democratic governors.“A waiver would also increase low-income families’ out-of-pocket health care costs, pricing needed care out of reach for some, and it could be particularly harmful for children with special health care needs and other people with disabling conditions who rely on BadgerCare. In addition, a wavier would imply HHS’ approval of a process that lacked meaningful public input based upon the fact that essential details of the proposal were not made available in advance of any public hearing opportunities.”To view the letter in its entirety, please click here.### For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.21.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) released the following the statement following the announcement by Co-Chairs of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, Senator Patty Murray and Representative Jeb Hensarling, that the committee did not reach a bipartisan agreement:“Once again Republicans have chosen to protect the wealthiest Americans instead of investing in the majority of the American people.“While Democrats were proposing a plan that would have significantly reduced our deficit and supported major economic growth, Republicans continued to talk loud and do nothing. This process has shown that while Republicans may talk a good game - when it comes time to make the tough choices that will help this country rise out of these tough economic times - they are unwilling to make the bold decisions this country needs to move forward.“I am proud of the work of the House Democratic appointees and will continue to work with them and others to ensure that we reach a fair and balanced solution to our economic problems that address our deficit while also putting Americans back to work.” ###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.18.2011	“Is this a balanced budget, or unbalanced priorities?” – Rep. Gwen Moore Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to H. J. Res. 2, which proposes a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. The House voted 261-165 to reject the resolution – falling short of the two-thirds majority needed. She released this statement: “With the passage of this ‘so-called’ Balanced Budget Amendment, I commiserate our loss of a balanced perspective on what we, as elected representatives of the people of the United States, regard as assets and liabilities on our balance sheet—as well as our loss of perspective on what ‘good government’ really means, as we balance our policy priorities in this moral document: our budget. “‘Balancing the budget’ sounds so simple, and so appealing, but that’s not a truthful description of what this balanced budget amendment would do. This amendment is nothing but a Trojan horse hiding the Republicans’ true intentions, which would require major cuts to vital programs, dramatically shrinking the size of government and enshrining this agenda in the United States Constitution.“What a perversion—to see children and seniors who need health care; students who need the government to invest in their higher education; communities subjected to natural disasters such as hurricanes and wildfire; American folk who need clean water and clean air—as liabilities on the American balance sheet. “According to analysis released this week by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the amendment we’re considering today could force cuts to all programs by an average of 17.3 percent by 2018. Social Security would be cut by $184 billion in 2018 alone, Medicare would be cut by $117 billion in 2018, and Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) would be cut by $80 billion in 2018. “What kind of country lauds a ‘balanced budget amendment’ that achieves this balance on the backs of children, students, working-class families, the disabled, the hungry, the infirm, the elderly, and the environment?“Is this a balanced budget, or unbalanced priorities?” ###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.17.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in favor of H.R. 2112, which includes three full-year appropriations bills for funding of departments and related agencies — Agriculture, Commerce-Justice-Science and Transportation-HUD. Combined, the three bills provide about $128 billion in discretionary spending, which is in line with the Budget Control Act that was passed earlier this year. The bill passed the House by a vote of 298-121. “While I am not particularly pleased with some of the language in this bill that could possibly weaken our nutrition standards, this appropriations bill makes a number of critical investments in programs that will help the American people during these tough economic times,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “I am particularly pleased with the $6.62 billion provided for the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program, which is about $570 million more than the House approved in June. “Additionally, the package also includes $2.3 billion in emergency funding for disaster relief and requires that an additional $300 million in regular appropriations for HUD's community development program also be used for disaster relief activities. “Overall, this bill is a positive step in the right direction and will help put the American people back to work.” ###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.16.2011	Funding to Help LSSWI Housing for Persons with DisabilitiesWashington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) along with U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced the release of over $1.2 million in grant funding for the Lutheran Social Services of Wisconsin and Upper Michigan, Inc (LSSWI). This grant is part of the Section 811 Program which is designed to enable very low-income persons with disabilities to live as independently as possible in the community by increasing the supply of rental housing with the availability of supportive services. Under this program, interest-free capital advances to nonprofit organizations to construct or rehabilitate rental housing with supportive services for very low-income persons with disabilities who are at least 18 years old. The advance remains interest-free and need not be repaid as long as the housing remains available for very-low income persons with disabilities for at least 40 years. “These funds will enable Lutheran Social Services of Wisconsin and Upper Michigan, Inc. to continue providing these much needed services to the people of the 4th Congressional District of Wisconsin,” said Congresswoman Gwen Moore. “I applaud the Administration for continuing to work to provide funding to programs like LSSWI that serve our hardest hit communities.” ###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) voted in opposition to H.R. 822, The National Right-to-Carry Reciprocity Act of 2011 a bill that would have required states that permit the carrying of concealed handguns to recognize conceal-and-carry permits from other states. The bill would have also provided that states would be required to allow non-residents to transport and carry concealed weapons within their borders as long as the individual carries valid, government-issued photo identification and a concealed-carry permit from their home state, and the individual is not otherwise prohibited by federal law from doing so. The bill passed by a vote of 271-154. “Once again while the American people want Congress focused on jobs, Republicans continue to bring legislation to the House Floor that will not create a single job,” said Rep. Gwen Moore. “Instead of trying to put more guns on our streets, we need to be focusing on putting the American people back to work. “Considering the horrific acts of gun violence that have taken place throughout our country over the past year we need to be working to strengthen our gun laws, not make it easier for guns to travel across state lines.” ###For More News UpdatesFollow Gwen Moore on Twitter @RepGwenMoore andLike Gwen Moore on Facebook
11.14.2011	For Immediate ReleaseNovember 9, 2011Contact: Nicole Y. Williams(202) 225- 4572Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) applauded the rejection by voters of SB5 in Ohio, the Voter ID law in Maine and a ban on abortions in Mississippi. She released this statement: “Last night voters across this country returned the power to the people by sending a resounding message that ‘Main Street’ will not be silenced or ignored. “In Ohio, voters went to the polls in record numbers in an effort to repeal State Bill 5. A resounding majority of the Ohio community made it clear that they will not allow Republican politicians to take away the right of hard-working Americans“I also applaud the people of Maine for rejecting a law requiring voters to enroll at least two days before an election, restoring a four-decade policy of allowing registrations as late as Election Day. Their actions show that they will not stand for Republican efforts to suppress voter turnout. Earlier this month I introduced The Voter Access Protection Act and The Same Day Registration Act, which will combat the coordinated effort sweeping several state legislatures to restrict voting rights. “In Mississippi, we saw a victory for women with voters rejecting a measure that would have made it the first state to ban abortion by declaring that life begins at conception. “These referendums were truly a victory for the working class of this country as well as a woman’s right to choose. Thank you to the people of Ohio, Maine and Mississippi for fighting back. I stand with you and will continue to fight for the rights of all Americans.”
11.14.2011	Washington, DC – 53 House Members have signed onto a letter sponsored by Congresswoman Moore and Congressman Jim McGovern to the FY 2012 Agriculture Appropriations Conferees urging them to adequately fund the WIC program to ensure much needed continued food assistance for thousands of low-income and at-risk women and young children. The letter is still open for signatures.Signatories include Rep. Moore, House Hunger Caucus Co-Chair McGovern, and Reps. Baca, Berman, Blumenauer, Brady, Butterfield, Capps, Christensen, Chu, Cicilline, Y. Clarke, H. Clarke, Cleaver, Cohen, Conyers, Critz, D. Davis, DeFazio, Doyle, Ellison, Grijalva, Gutiérrez, Hastings, Hinchey, Holt, Jackson Jr., H. Johnson, Kucinich, B. Lee, Maloney, Matsui, McDermott, Meeks, Norton, Pascrell, Payne, Pingree, Rangel, Reyes, Richardson, Rothman, Roybal-Allard, Rush, Sablan, Schakowsky, Sewell, Slaughter, Stark, Sutton, Thompson, Towns, and Wilson.The letter reads as follows:November XX, 2011The Honorable Harold RogersThe Honorable C.W Bill YoungThe Honorable Jerry LewisThe Honorable Frank WolfThe Honorable Jack KingstonThe Honorable Tom LathamThe Honorable Robert B. AderholtThe Honorable Jo Ann EmersonThe Honorable John Abney CulbersonThe Honorable John R. CarterThe Honorable Jo BonnerThe Honorable Steven C. LaTouretteThe Honorable Norm DicksThe Honorable Rosa DeLauroThe Honorable Ed PastorThe Honorable David E. PriceThe Honorable Sam FarrThe Honorable Chaka FattahThe Honorable Adam B. SchiffDear Conferees,As you begin to conference on the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies FY 2012 Appropriations bill, we respectfully request your leadership in providing adequate funding for the WIC program.As you know, nationally WIC serves roughly 9 million mothers and young children. The program provides nutritious foods, counseling on healthy eating, and health care referrals to low-income pregnant and postpartum women, infants, and children under age 5 who are at nutritional risk. WIC prenatal care benefits reduce the rate of low birth-weight babies by 25% and very low birth-weight babies by 44%. More importantly, for every dollar spent on a pregnant woman on WIC, up to $4.21 is saved in Medicaid for her and her newborn baby because WIC reduces the risk for preterm birth and low-birth-weight babies by 25% and 44%, respectively.Despite the WIC program’s cost-effectiveness and the undeniable benefits that the program provides to mothers and young children, the program is currently facing impending funding challenges. The $733 million cut to the WIC program included in the House-passed FY 2012 Agriculture Appropriations bill would result in funding levels too low and, coupled with rapidly rising food prices, the loss of benefits for hundreds of thousands of eligible low-income women and young children next year. While we believe the Senate-passed FY 2012 WIC funding level of $6.582 billion ($581 million above the House level) is a good starting point, we believe the uncertainty of future food price estimates warrant an even higher funding level that ensures that we are not hindering the WIC program’s ability to serve. Under the guise of deficit reduction, the House-passed bill puts the ability of thousands of eligible low-income women and children to put food on the table at risk. The fact is that WIC provides significant return on investment and is itself a deficit reduction strategy – yielding significant long-term healthcare cost savings through improving nutrition, birth outcomes, breastfeeding rates, and improved infant and young children’s growth and development. With 46.2 million people currently living in poverty, including 16.2 million children, we must continue to find ways to strengthen the already fledgling safety net, not weaken it.We urge you to push for clean and adequate funding for the WIC program and to reject any additional cuts or changes to the program. Thank you for your consideration of this request.GWEN MOORE JIM MCGOVERNMember of Congress Member of Congress
11.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (WI-4) extended her support for our veterans, service members and their families in recognition of Veteran’s Day."Today we pause to honor the service and tremendous sacrifices that our men and women in uniform and their families make on a daily basis. They honorably carry out their duties for their county and I believe we have a moral responsibility to keep our promise to the people who have served our nation. “Over 12 percent of our nation’s veterans who have served since the September 11, 2001 attacks are currently unemployed and hundreds of thousands of veterans are finding themselves homeless on any given day. It is inexcusable for Congress to stand idly by as an additional 40,000 estimated troops come home to a dismal and challenging job market at the end of the year.“I recently joined President Obama in support of the White House initiatives to help veterans gain employment including the ‘Veterans Gold Card’ and the Veterans Job Bank website that will provide much needed aid in connecting veterans to jobs that best fit their unique skill sets and experience. Additionally, providing a tax credit to firms that hire unemployed veterans and veterans with service-connected disabilities through the Returning Heroes and Wounded Warriors tax credits is a smart way to get these brave men and women back to work and on the pathway to self-sufficiency. “The best way to honor all of our military troops, veterans and their families around the world who continue to proudly serve our country would be to further dedicate ourselves to providing them with the necessary support and resources that they deserve. I remain committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that the needs of our veterans are taken care of.”
10.26.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) stated her strong support for President Obama’s new proposal to ease the burden of student loan debt. Rep. Moore encouraged residents of her district to find out whether they might be eligible for the new program.“Tuition costs have risen dramatically in the past few years, at the same time as more and more graduating students have struggled to find good jobs. The President’s new program would cap student loan payments at a more manageable level and allow people to consolidate their debt, making it easier for them to avoid default. This plan could bring relief to millions of individuals and families, especially in this time of economic hardship.”The President’s new “Pay As You Earn” proposal would improve the current income-based repayment plan—which allows student borrowers to cap their monthly payments at 15% of their discretionary income—by reducing that limit to 10% of discretionary income. Borrowers would also be allowed to consolidate their federal loans and receive a reduction in their interest rate.“I applaud President Obama on his plan to address the worsening student debt situation. This repayment program could keep hundreds of dollars in the pockets of struggling young people from Wisconsin. I urge my constituents who are eligible to apply.” Borrowers should visit www.studentaid.ed.gov/ibr to determine whether or not income-based repayment is right for them.
10.21.2011	Washington, DC -- Today Congresswoman Gwen Moore made the following statement about the withdrawl of troops from Iraq.“I applaud the President on this announcement and I honor our men and women in uniform who have given so much to our country and to the Iraqi people. I remember with great sadness the 31,000 wounded Americans and 4,400 who lost their lives in Iraq. Iraq’s democracy and future will now fully and finally belong in the hands of those who really controlled it all along – the Iraqi people and their leaders – not our military."
10.21.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04) made the following statement about the Voter ID lawsuit brought forth by the League of Women Voters against the state of Wisconsin.“I applaud the League of Women Voters for their commitment to preserving one of our most sacred democratic rights. Requiring a strict photo ID card at the polls disenfranchises minorities, low-income folks, the elderly, students, and other vulnerable populations. For example, we know that 78% of African American males age 18-24 do not have driver’s licenses. This law is a direct and blatant attack on the same citizens who have struggled throughout our nation’s history for the right to vote. Obtaining the documentation needed to get an ID, like a birth certificate, costs money and time. Taking time off from work to travel and wait in line for hours at the DMV is not something that many disadvantaged Wisconsinites can afford to do. The League of Women Voters has a rich experience fighting for voter equality, and it is no surprise that they are leading the charge to strike down this modern day poll tax.” “I plan to introduce a bill in Congress that would bar the requirement of photo IDs as a requirement to vote in federal elections. When I took my oath as a Member of Congress to uphold and defend the United States Constitution, I took it very seriously. Our right to vote is one of the most protected rights of any that we enjoy in our democratic system. In fact, the constitution was amended five times over our nation’s history to reflect this American ideal. I will continue to fight, much like my predecessors before me, to make voting an equal opportunity regardless of race, status, and age."
10.14.2011	Milwaukee, WI – Today, Representative Gwen Moore joined her pro-choice Democratic colleagues in fighting against Republicans’ attempt to limit women’s access to reproductive health services.The House of Representatives considered and passed H.R. 358 (251 to 172), legislation which includes unprecedented restrictions on abortion coverage. This bill would threaten women’s ability to purchase private health insurance that includes abortion coverage, even if they use their own money. It also codifies and expands sweeping provisions that allow health care providers to refuse to provide abortion-related services.“This bill is an ideological distraction from what should be our top priority,” said Rep. Moore. “At a time when the Republican majority should be using its power to create jobs and turn this economy around, the majority is using its power to turn against women.”Rep. Moore is Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues and a longtime advocate for women’s access to comprehensive health care services. To view one of Rep. Moore’s floor speeches in opposition to H.R. 358, visit http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EaL-0zO312I
10.13.2011	Washington, DC -- Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), made the following statement about the free trade agreements passed yesterday by the House of Representatives.“I voted against the trade deals with Colombia, South Korea, and Panama, passed by Congress yesterday, because they do not go far enough to meet the goal of fair and balanced trade. The trade agreement with South Korea continues to incentivize the shipping of American jobs overseas and contains weak rule-of-origin provisions which could ultimately undermine both South Korean and American workers. Additionally, the Panama agreement does little to close gaping tax loopholes or curb ongoing financial secrecy and tax haven activities. Most disturbingly, the trade deal with Colombia, a country that has continued to fail to effectively address anti-union violence, represents a direct affront to trade unionists everywhere.“In my district, we are no strangers to violence against those who choose to fight for worker’s rights. In 1886, in an event now known as the Bayview Massacre, thousands of building-trades workers and Polish laborers gathered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin to strike against their employers to demand an eight-hour work day. They were met with gunfire by the National Guard and seven people lost their lives. The threat in Colombia is much worse. Since 1985, there have been over 2,500 trade unionist killings in Colombia and the number of killings has only increased since this deal was signed in 2007 by President Bush.“I believe that a trade deal with Colombia is an insult to basic workers’ rights and human rights and we should not stand idly by while unionists continue to be terrorized for standing up for the rights of workers. We must learn from our own history and reject trade deals in countries where advocating for workers’ rights can be a de facto death sentence.“It doesn’t make sense to enact trade deals that will put American workers in harm’s way, lead to significant job loss, and increase our country’s deepening trade deficit during a time of economic recovery."
10.12.2011	Milwaukee vs. St. Louis on Capitol Hill TooWashington, DC – As the National League Championship Series resumes tonight at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO) are making a friendly wager on which team will win the pennant and advance to the World Series.If the St. Louis Cardinals win, Congresswoman Moore will provide Congressman Clay’s staff with a case of Budweiser and a selection of Milwaukee’s finest bratwurst.If the Milwaukee Brewers are victorious, Rep. Clay will provide Rep. Moore’s staff with a case of Miller High Life and deep dish pizza from Pi, a legendary St. Louis pizzeria favored by President Obama. “There is no doubt that the Brewers will win the next three games, but I need to call Brewers Manager Ron Roenicke right away and tell him just how dire this situation is,” Rep. Moore said. “I am loathe to purchase Budweiser. The only beer I ever buy or drink is High Life.” “The Cardinals are on a roll; Albert is awesome; Chris Carpenter is warming up; and the Rally Squirrel is ready, said Congressman Clay. And I am surprised to learn that they actually brew beer in Milwaukee!”Game Three of the National League Championship series is slated for 7:05p.m CDT this evening at Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis. The series is tied one game apiece.
10.11.2011	Washington, DC– Today Reps. Gwen Moore (D-WI), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), along with 82 of their colleagues, sent a letter to Rep. Cliff Stearns expressing concern over a recently launched investigation into the financial accounting of Planned Parenthood. The letter notes that Planned Parenthood already submits documentation on a regular basis to the Department of Health and Human Services as well as to state Medicaid programs that fully demonstrates its strict compliance with federal funding requirements, as well as all restrictions on the use of any federal funds for abortion services.“This investigation is an unfortunate waste of taxpayer dollars—and the timing couldn’t be worse. Working families can’t afford yet another distraction from our nation’s top priority: getting people back to work, and protecting people who have been hit hard by the economy,” said Rep. Gwen Moore (WI-04).“Every year three million women and men count on Planned Parenthood for life-saving health care, meaning there are millions of reasons to support Planned Parenthood, but there’s only one reason for this unfounded investigation: to create an ideological distraction,” said Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-28). “The American people know better and want this Congress should focus on getting people back to work.”“I’m a strong believer in Congressional oversight, but this investigation is nothing more than an unnecessary political stunt,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20). “My colleagues and I hope Chairman Stearns will reconsider pursuing this investigation and join us in focusing energy on getting Americans back to work.” The letter is available here
10.05.2011	Milwaukee, WI – Today, Representative Gwen Moore urged servicemembers and veterans to apply for benefits they have earned in the face of a fast approaching deadline for filing claims. Servicemembers, veterans and beneficiaries of servicemembers who were involuntarily extended under the military’s stop loss policy between September 11, 2001 and September 30th, 2009 are eligible for retroactive stop loss special pay of $500 for every month or partial month served in stop loss status. According to the Defense Department, over 82,000 claims have been paid for a total payout of $308 million. Payments have averaged $3,739. “Our men and women have been asked to sacrifice so much. We all have a duty to ensure that they receive the benefits they have earned,” said Rep. Moore.In 2008, Congresswoman Moore was an original cosponsor of legislation to provide stop loss compensation payments. Congress approved these payments in 2009 and has since extended the deadline for applications to ensure that all servicemembers who are eligible have the opportunity to receive the payments that they have earned. The claims deadline is October 21, 2011. According to the Defense Department, despite outreach efforts, some 120,000 servicemembers may be eligible but have still not submitted claims. Those who served in the Army and believe they are eligible can call 877-736-5554 for more information. For the Marine Corps, the phone number is 877-242-2830. For the Navy, 901-874-4427. For the Air Force, 800-525-0102. Additional information about eligible and how to complete applications can also be found online (please click here.) “Time is running out. If you even think you could qualify, I urge you to take action today."
10.03.2011	Washington DC -- Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore made the following statement on the GOP's refusal to bring up the China Currency Reform Bill:“As we celebrate the one year anniversary of House Passage of the China Currency Reform bill on a bipartisan basis, we are reminded once again of the House Republican Leadership’s failure to consider meaningful legislation to help create jobs, level the playing field for American businesses, and prevent the off-shoring of U.S. manufacturing jobs. The China Currency Reform Act would not only prevent the Chinese government from suppressing the value of its currency giving them an unfair advantage over U.S. small manufacturers and exporters nationwide but it could more importantly create an estimated 1 million to 2 million jobs. The Senate is beginning debate on this important bill this week. As a cosponsor of identical House legislation that House Republicans have refused to move out of Committee, further inaction is a direct affront to the cries of the American people, 6 million of which have been out of work for 27 weeks or more. 174 Democrats including myself have signed a discharge petition to bring this bill to the floor and I hope that the House will do so."
09.23.2011	Amendment Improves One-Sided Study of Clean Air RegulationsWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment written by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) that would require regulators to consider the public health of Americans and the impacts on low-income communities when analyzing clean air regulations.The underlying bill, the TRAIN Act, would create an 11-member interagency committee to examine the cumulative effects of current and proposed Environmental Protection Agency regulations on U.S. energy and manufacturing industries and energy prices. The bill would require the committee to consider a multitude of factors in their analysis that, as originally written, overwhelmingly focused on the costs to industry, while ignoring the benefits to public health, the environment, and the communities that unevenly share the burdens of air pollution.Congresswoman Moore said, “We’ve seen the tremendous public health benefits associated with EPA regulations that reduce the hazardous air pollutions in our air, and we know that often low-income communities are at disproportionately high risks from pollution. To not ignore the health benefits enjoyed by all Americans, and the assistance that low-income communities receive from cleaner air, would be dishonest to a true cost-benefit analysis.” Moore’s amendment requires the interagency committee to study the public health and impact on low-income communities along with other factors designed to show the burden of EPA regulations on the energy business sector.Moore continued, “I had my first asthma attack shoveling coal into a furnace at a very young age. As an individual who grew up with asthma in a low-income community, I know the importance of environmental justice and why it is essential that we include it in these debates." Moore’s amendment to the TRAIN Act passed by a recorded vote of 337-76. The underlying bill passed the House by a vote of 249-169.
09.20.2011	Washington, DC — U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) reintroduced legislation that would apply standard Department of Transportation (DOT) contracting goals for minority-owned and operated small businesses to future high-speed rail construction projects. Congresswoman Moore said, “My bill simply holds high-speed rail projects to the same standards as other infrastructure projects funded by the federal government. Minority-owned businesses have more acutely felt the impact of this recession. This legislation would ensure fairness and tear down the barriers that have traditionally ensured that these businesses are last in line.” The DOT’s Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program helps give small businesses owned and operated by economically and socially disadvantaged individuals a better chance to work on federally-funded transportation projects. Since 1998, DOT has been required to direct at least 10 percent of total funding for highways, highway safety, public transportation and aviation construction to such small businesses. Moore’s bill would apply the same 10 percent standard to high-speed rail funding to help create an unbiased contracting process for small businesses owned and operated by women, African-Americans, Native-Americans, Latino-Americans, Asian-Americans among others. Moore said, “Small businesses are key to economic growth and development, and especially right now, they need every opportunity they can get."
09.15.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Marcia Fudge (D-OH) introduced the “Fair and Equitable Postal Service Access Act,” legislation to require the Postal Service to consider the needs of the most vulnerable in communities affected by proposals to close Post Offices. In Milwaukee, the Postal Service has proposed to close or consolidate five post offices concentrated in the city’s north side in a predominantly lower-income African American neighborhood. “My bill is common sense legislation that will require the Postal Service to take the particular needs of a community, especially those who are elderly, low-income, or without access to transportation, into account when it makes a decision about closing a post office,” Rep. Moore said. “For many in my district, local post offices provide a range of services that they simply may not have the resources or ability to access elsewhere.” "I'm happy to join my colleague on this bill that will help ensure post office closings will not disproportionately harm elderly and low-income populations,” Rep. Fudge said. “These are the people least able to utilize online resources or other means, but let's not forget that closure of any post offices will mean job losses."The Fair and Equitable Postal Service Access Act would:• Require the Postal Service to specifically consider when reviewing whether a post office should be closed or consolidated if such a move would decrease access to postal or non-postal services for elderly individuals, economically disadvantaged individuals, individuals with limited mobility, or individuals without reliable and affordable access to the Internet.• Explicitly require the Postal Service to address the impact that closing or consolidating post offices would have on these groups. • Prevent the Postal Service from closing or consolidating retail post offices if it would result in a disproportionate, unreasonable, or undue burden on the elderly, economically disadvantaged, or individuals lacking access to transportation or the Internet. The Postal Service has proposed closing some 3,600 out of its over 38,000 retail facilities. “Federal law already makes clear that the postal service shall not make ‘any undue or unreasonable discrimination among’ postal users,” said Moore, “This legislation puts teeth into that law by requiring greater scrutiny of the impact on vulnerable populations that are too often not considered."
09.08.2011	Washington,DC -- Today, Rep. Gwen Moore made the following statement regarding the President’s address to the Joint Session of Congress.“Tonight, the President sat down with Republicans and Democrats to focus on the public’s most pressing need: that we together address the critical task of creating jobs. I applaud the President for identifying significant tax initiatives that have traditionally been supported by the Republican Party. But our Republican colleagues can’t simply rely on tax policy alone to fix our employment crisis. They must work with us on other vital job creation measures, such as providing aid to states and localities, infrastructure development, and assisting the long-term unemployed."
07.29.2011	Washington DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the House passed Speaker John Boehner’s plan to raise the debt ceiling:“Difficult issues are resolved when the two parties meet halfway. Yet, this legislation requires no sacrifice from Republicans. In fact, after Speaker Boehner’s first version failed to gain enough support, he added even more of what Republicans want.“There are no new revenues – like ending subsidies for oil and gas companies. The debt limit increase is tied to cuts dollar for dollar. This unbalanced, one-sided, cuts-only approach will hurt our most vulnerable. There’s no way around that. And ultimately, Speaker Boehner’s plan will force cuts in Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid. “Since Speaker Boehner left talks with President Obama one week ago, U.S. stocks have lost more than $400 billion in value.“This is a moment in history where real bipartisan compromise is possible. Most of us agree that in the short term, Congress must pass an increase in the debt ceiling because failure to do so would be catastrophic and would harm every single American, rich or poor. In the long term, Congress must find a balanced approach with compromise from both sides to ensure our nation’s fiscal health."
07.28.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) joined together to introduce the “SAFE Teen Act,” legislation to help schools address the problem of teen dating violence.U.S. Senators Mike Crapo (R-ID) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) introduced the companion bill in the Senate.“Young women aren’t immune to dating violence, and in fact, many will unfortunately experience it in one form or another. We need to make sure we’re talking to our children about dating violence so that they can identify signs to stop these patterns and hopefully prevent it altogether,” said Representative Gwen Moore.“This nation’s greatest asset is our children. Our shared future depends on their success and we can’t let dating violence limit their aspirations,” said Representative Dave Reichert. “Teen dating violence, unfortunately, occurs in all of our communities and contributes to the increasing school drop-out rates nationwide. To reverse this trend, I am proud to support the SAFE Teen Act, which will provide resources for comprehensive awareness, education, and prevention programs designed to combat teen dating violence. By recognizing this problem and acting to address it, we can teach the next generation valuable lessons that will allow them to succeed in schools and beyond.”“Our children’s safety and well-being is always our top priority, and this bill takes a proactive step in protecting our children from dangerous relationships—and their lifelong consequences,” said Senator Crapo. “The SAFE Teen Act enables schools to tackle dating violence with awareness and prevention initiatives that will continue the steady progress that we have already made in combating teen dating violence within our schools and communities.”“Teen dating violence is a growing threat to the safety of our children. We must make sure that young people can recognize warning signs in their relationships and that our schools have the resources to help prevent dating violence. This bipartisan legislation would provide schools with the resources needed to create effective prevention and awareness programs,” said Senator Whitehouse.About 72 percent of 8th and 9th graders report dating; 1 in 4 adolescents reports emotional, physical, or sexual violence each year; and 1 in 10 adolescents reports being a victim of physical dating violence. Over 40 percent of young people who report they are victims of dating violence say that the incidents occurred in a school building or on school grounds.The “Stop Abuse for Every Teen Act” or “SAFE Teen Act” would:Authorize schools to use existing grant funding for teen dating violence preventionHighlight teen dating violence prevention as part of the comprehensive, community prevention program, Safe Schools, Healthy Students, that already funds prevention activitiesSupport better teen dating violence data to understand the scope of the problem as well as having a means of measuring the impact of prevention programs and policiesSupport promising practices to further replicate, refine and test prevention modelsThe legislation does not include any mandates and is budget neutral without any additional funding.At least 15 states have passed teen dating violence laws that urge or require school boards to develop curriculum on teen dating violence, most without additional funding or guidance. The federal legislation attempts to correct this problem by allowing schools to incorporate teen dating violence prevention into existing school safety programs. Schools are also encouraged to train school personnel on the issue and incorporate response mechanisms into school policies.The legislation is supported by Futures Without Violence, and a coalition of domestic violence and education advocacy organizations that support the legislation, including the National Education Association, American Federation of Teachers, Love is Not Abuse Coalition, Jewish Women International, Girl Scouts of the USA, and RAINN.
07.13.2011	Washington, DC– Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded Wisconsin Department of Health Services Secretary Dennis Smith for an apparent turn-around to support the city of Milwaukee’s application for Federal grant funding to help fight and prevent chronic diseases.Last month, Secretary Smith said that he would not write a letter of support for the city’s application for Community Transformation Grants. Such a letter is needed for the application to be considered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. If Milwaukee is awarded a grant, the state has no administrative or financial obligation.Congresswoman Moore said, “There is federal funding out there that can improve the health of our people. It made zero sense to deny us the chance at this funding, and I’m glad Secretary Smith has changed his position. His reversal means that Milwaukee can at least throw its hat in the ring.”WhenMoore first learned that the city’s application would be denied without a letter of support from the state, she wrote to HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and asked her to consider applications from Wisconsin without state support. And just this week, she wrote to Governor Walker and urged him to reconsider this decision and support Milwaukee’s grant application. She also sent the letter to members of Wisconsin's Joint Finance Committee.Now, with a letter of support, the city will apply for as much as $4.8 million over five years to fight obesity and reduce deaths from heart attack and stroke.
06.24.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) wrote to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and asked her to consider applications from Wisconsin for the Community Transformation Grants without support from Governor Walker.The City of Milwaukee Health Department was informed that the Wisconsin Department of Health Services will not support the city’s application even though no state matching funds are required. Without a letter of support from the state, Milwaukee’s application will not be considered.Congresswoman Moore said, “For whatever reason, Governor Walker and his administration are so willing to deny the return of Wisconsinites’ federal tax dollars. This funding is available, and we should get a shot at it. The city can put it to good use to help fight asthma and diabetes. Yet, apparently in Madison some backward ideology trumps our health.”This fits with the pattern of Wisconsin returning or jeopardizing federal funding. Most recently, the Wisconsin State Legislature allowed nearly $90 million in extended unemployment benefits to lapse. State-level changes to food stamps, Medicaid and collective bargaining could jeopardize tens of millions of dollars to help hungry Wisconsinites eat, ensure maternal and child health, and fund transit systems across the state. The state has also returned $23 million that would have expanded broadband access in rural schools and $800 million for high-speed rail. The full text of Moore’s letter follows:Secretary Kathleen SebeliusU.S. Department of Health and Human Services200 Independence Avenue SWWashington, DC 20201June 24, 2011Dear Secretary Sebelius:I have recently learned that a Community Transformation Grant application from my district, from the City of Milwaukee Health Department, is in jeopardy because Governor Scott Walker’s administration continues to put political ideology above the health and well-being of the people of Wisconsin.As you know, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recently announced that under the newly-implemented Community Transformation Grants (CTG) program, community-based organizations can apply for a share of the more than $100 million available in the program’s first year. The Community Transformation Grants, which will be administered by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), are a key element of the Affordable Care Act’s prevention activities. CTGs will help improve health outcomes and reduce overall costs for our health system. These CTGs will allow communities to set up evidence-based projects to reduce chronic diseases, such as diabetes and heart disease, affecting local populations. Communities could use these funds to address a range of disease prevention and health promotion areas, including environmental health, HIV, cancer, and maternal, infant, and child health. The goal of this program is to improve the health of local communities, particularly among groups experiencing poor health and low access to quality, affordable health care.The residents of the City of Milwaukee, with its severe health disparities and high burden of chronic disease, would benefit greatly from such a program. This city is, unfortunately, known for its surprising and appalling health statistics. For example, Milwaukee’s infant mortality rate is higher than in all but six of the country’s 53 largest cities—and black babies in Milwaukee die at about 2.5 times the rate of white babies. Our incidence of asthma is second in the nation; an estimated 30,000 children in Milwaukee County have asthma. Milwaukee’s Community Transformation Grant proposal includes multi-pronged strategies for addressing these issues, as well as several of the City’s other pressing health problems.Given the dire need for CTG funding, the City of Milwaukee’s Health Department has spent over a year laying the groundwork for its application. The Health Department has prepared extensively for the application process by bringing together stakeholders, developing a detailed plan of action, amassing relevant data, and much more. They have formed a strong coalition with buy-in from all necessary partners. In sum, they are well-positioned to apply for, obtain, and administer a Community Transformation Grant. The City of Milwaukee’s application is one of just two anticipated from the State of Wisconsin.Unfortunately, this week the City of Milwaukee Health Department learned that their application will be stopped in its tracks because they will be denied the final step needed to complete the process: the letter of support from the state’s Department of Health Services. Despite the fact that no state matching funds are required, Governor Walker’s administration has indicated that it will not support such grant applications. This is not the first time that the Walker administration has turned away federal funds to make a political point, at the expense of Wisconsinites—and, in this case, it is at the expense of our health.The CDC has stipulated that without a letter of support from the state, community-based organizations’ applications for CTGs will not be considered. Considering the great need in Wisconsin, and the fact that the Governor will deny the return of federal tax dollars to the state to make an ideological point, I request that the CDC consider applications originating in Wisconsin without requiring a state letter of support. In fact, I would go one step further and urge you to reconsider this requirement altogether. We must allow access to critical Community Transformation Grant funding for all states, regardless of the political ambitions of their governors. Sincerely,Gwen MooreMember of Congress
06.23.2011	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment written by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) that would require the Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) to study the diversity of patent applicants. Congresswoman Moore said, “Data have helped us identify and address underrepresentation and diversity in the workplace and at colleges and universities. By simply asking people to take three seconds to identify themselves when they apply for a patent, we’ll be able to get a clear picture of who is actually applying and how underrepresented women and minorities are. And then with this information, we can find ways to encourage women and minority inventors to claim their intellectual property.”Moore’s amendment requires the PTO to study the diversity of patent applicants, including those who are minorities, women or veterans. Her amendment specifically prohibits any preferential treatment based on this study. Currently, no such data exists and private studies are incomplete.Moore continued, “We know women innovate. We know African-Americans and Hispanics innovate. We just need to make sure they’re getting credit for their ideas and contributions.”Moore made the amendment to the America Invents Act, which reforms the patent system. The overall bill is expected to pass the House.
06.23.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) and U.S. Senator Herb Kohl (D-Wis.) announced that YWCA of Greater Milwaukee will receive more than $5.7 million to help Milwaukee residents enter the workforce and maintain economic security.Congresswoman Moore said, “The sad facts are that many low-income people are forced into jobs where they can’t get sufficient training or that don’t pay enough to support families. Programs like this one at the YWCA are perfect because they recognize that many folks need training to enter the workforce as well as support to help them along the way. I’m thrilled that this funding is coming to Milwaukee to help people get and keep good jobs.”“The financial stress of unemployment or even a low-paying job doesn’t just weigh on the worker; their families and those who depend on them for food and housing are also affected,” Senator Kohl said. “Many non-custodial parents who have lost their jobs are finding it increasingly difficult to pay their child support. The funding provided by this Department of Labor grant will support the YWCA of Greater Milwaukee and their partners in providing job skills training and other employment supports so they can find well-paying jobs that will allow parents to continue to provide for their children.”The YWCA of Greater Milwaukee received the funding for its Supporting Families Through Work program from the Department of Labor’s Enhanced Transitional Jobs Demonstration Project grant program.Transitional jobs are short-term jobs that give participants on-the-job work experience along with an array of support services to help them overcome barriers to employment.The funding will be used to help participants get necessary jobs skills, enter the workforce, and complete high school or get a GED. The program also focuses on career development and helping participants meet family obligations, such as child support.“Our more than 15 years of experience managing employment and training services has shown that with the right program model we can effectively bridge job seekers with meaningful employment,” said Paula H. Penebaker, President and CEO of YWCA Greater Milwaukee. “This grant is a tremendous opportunity to empower others to provide for their families and move beyond poverty, and would have not been possible without the leadership of Senator Kohl and Congresswoman Moore. We are deeply grateful for their support and commitment to helping individuals with significant barriers to employment obtain the skills they need.”Both Moore and Kohl wrote to Labor Secretary Hilda Solis in support of YWCA receiving this funding.
06.22.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) new proposed rules for swifter union certification elections:“We need to throw everything we have at getting Americans back to work and getting our economy back on track. “Union participation and a strong middle class go hand in hand. And if we make it easier for workers who want to join a union to do so, we will bolster America’s middle class, which has been beleaguered by increased health care and education costs alongside stagnant wages.“In Wisconsin, which played a strong role in the early labor movement, unions are under siege. The misguided leadership in Madison has potential to further devastate our already strapped middle class. This is why I’m particularly glad that the NLRB wants to make it easier for workers to band together and strengthen our middle class.”
06.21.2011	Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the Wisconsin State Legislature blocking Federal funding from reaching unemployed Wisconsinites:“As protégés of Governor Walker, the Wisconsin legislature is blocking unemployed Wisconsinites access to extended benefits.“Are they living in some fantasy land where good, family-supporting jobs are easy to find? This failure to act tells the far too many unemployed Wisconsinites that they just aren’t trying hard enough to find a job. Yet, we know that’s not the case and new jobs just aren’t coming fast enough. “Congress passed increased benefits because it is taking people longer to find jobs, and it’s a shame that Wisconsinites aren’t getting this help."
06.16.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) decried a cut of $650 million to the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) nutrition program included in the Agriculture appropriations bill, which passed the House today.Speaking on the House Floor earlier this week, Congresswoman Moore highlighted that fact that one week of the Bush tax cuts could more than make up for this cut. She said, “If you compare this to the Bush tax cuts, which gave the average millionaire a $139,199 tax break in 2011, or $2,700 a week, that comes up to a total of $866 million to the wealthiest people in one week -- one week...”Citing previous legislation and cuts to programs that help low-income children, Moore continued that this bill, “doubles-down on not providing food to infants and children… We’ve already cut the entitlement and snatched the safety net from up underneath kids.” Her floor speeches can be seen here and here.The Center on Budget Policy and Priorities estimates that if food prices continue rising, up to 350,000 low-income women and children across the country will lose access to this program. WIC – a cost-effective program – provides nutritious food to pregnant women, mothers, and children under age 5 who are considered nutritionally at risk. Economists estimate that every $1 spent through WIC saves between $1.77 and $3.13 in health care costs in only 60 days after an infant’s birth.The bill also includes cuts to other hunger programs – including cuts to commodity foods and food banks.
06.15.2011	Washington, DC – United States Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) spoke in Washington, DC this morning as the National Trust for Historic Preservation named the National Soldiers Home Historic District one of the eleven most endangered historic places in the country.Congresswoman Moore said, “These buildings have served veterans since the Civil War. They are a rich part of Wisconsin’s history, and I will keep fighting to see that they remain part of Wisconsin’s legacy.”Just yesterday, the House passed legislation funding the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The legislation included an amendment written by Moore with the purpose of directing the VA to issue a report to Congress on plans to rehabilitate and re-use aging and outdated national landmarks within its infrastructure. Video of her floor speech can be seen here.Moore has successfully fought to ensure that these buildings and the grounds around them must be used to serve our veterans. And she has been working with the VA and the Department of Interior to preserve these buildings. Moore continued, “We have this spot in Milwaukee where those who fought to save our union received care because of legislation under President Lincoln. And now it’s our turn to ensure that those who have fought since then have a home here too."
06.08.2011	Washington, DC – Last night, the House of Representatives rejected a bipartisan amendment, which would have cut a $17 billion defense spending increase in half. The bipartisan amendment offered by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI) and Representatives Barney Frank (D-MA), John Campbell (R-CA), Rush Holt (D-NJ), Walter Jones (R-NC) and Ron Paul (R-TX) would have saved $8.5 billion. It specifically protected military personnel and would have prohibited reductions in military pay, health, and emergency war costs.Congresswoman Moore said, “Defense spending accounts for as much as Medicare and Medicaid combined. With many of my colleagues slashing those programs, we must also take a strong look at cutting defense spending. I’m disappointed that this amendment failed and that we now may be forced to make deeper and more painful cuts elsewhere.”Congressman Frank, the amendment’s lead sponsor said, “While many of us believe that no increase at all is justified at a time of fiscal austerity, my colleagues and I have put forward a more moderate amount which only cuts in half the increase proposed. We believe that it is essential that the House of Representatives show that it is prepared to put restraints on military spending and this amendment was drafted to maximize our chances of having that made clear.”The same representatives have also written a letter to President Obama and congressional leaders to demand cuts to the defense budget be part of meaningful deficit reduction. The Defense Department budget will make up almost 60 percent of discretionary spending that Congress will approve this year, and it is the only area with a funding increase under the Republican budget plan. Under their amendment, which was defeated by a vote of 244 to 181, next year’s non-war budget for the Defense Department would have been reduced to about $522 billion. The House approved the overall bill maintaining the $17 billion increase today. The legislation now heads to the Senate for consideration.
06.02.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore is working to keep the Milwaukee area eligible for crucial funding that trains first responders to prepare for and respond to terrorist attacks and natural disasters. The bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) originally included a provision to limit funding under the Urban Area Security Initiative to our nation’s ten cities most at risk of a terrorist attack. Moore was one of 13 Representatives who co-wrote an amendment to remove that language and allow urban areas like Milwaukee to once again qualify for this funding if DHS determines the area is at risk. Moore said, “If we enact an arbitrary restriction like this one, we might as well fax al Qaeda a list of the areas that will lose federal support.”The amendment passed by a vote of 273 to 150. The overall bill passed the House and now goes to the Senate for consideration.In a speech on the House Floor last night, Moore mentioned reports that intelligence found in Osama bin Laden’s compound indicated he instructed his followers to look at smaller U.S. cities for potential attacks. Her full speech can be viewed here.This bill comes on the heels of an announcement that DHS would no longer provide funding for Milwaukee and dozens of our nation’s cities due to mid-year budget cuts. Moore wrote to DHS Secretary Janet Napolitano and asked her to reconsider this decision. In her letter, she wrote: “Urban regions like Milwaukee…. should not be cut out of this important program when the Department has continued to assess a risk for these areas over the years, and when the threat continues to exist for an attack.” Her full letter can be read here
05.03.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) called on Governor Scott Walker to change his proposal to hire private-sector employees to determine eligibility for food stamps, which news reports indicate jeopardizes $20 million a year the state receives to help 800,000 low-income Wisconsinites buy food. Congresswoman Moore said, ”Wisconsinites pay taxes to Washington, and we deserve that money to come back to our economy. By pursuing these bull-headed and ideologically-driven policies, Governor Walker appears content with Wisconsinites’ Federal tax dollars being spent in Minnesota and Illinois – or any other state.”Earlier this year, Congresswoman Moore wrote to President Obama and asked him if Governor Walker’s proposal to hire private workers would jeopardize Federal funding. She also wrote to the Department of Agriculture (USDA) asking for a field investigation into Walker’s attempts to privatize administration of Wisconsin’s food stamps program. Her letter to President Obama can be read here, and her letter to USDA can be read here.USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack has called similar privatization efforts in Texas and Indiana “complete failures.” Indiana is currently in a lawsuit with IBM – the company it contracted to handle intake for health care and food assistance. The state broke the contract early after complaints and is being sued for $100 million. Moore continued, “Governor Walker is once again putting ideology above the well-being of Wisconsinites. Wisconsin could lose $20 million as he seeks to privatize food stamps. And this is on top of the $23 million he sent back that would have helped expand internet in rural schools. It’s even in addition to the $46 million in Federal transit funding at risk because of his divisive changes to collective bargaining."
05.02.2011	Milwaukee, Wis. – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after President Obama announced that Osama bin Laden – mastermind of the 9/11 attacks – was killed:“I applaud our military, our President, and his national security team for ridding the world of the dark presence of Osama bin Laden. He has held the world captive, and his death ends a tragic chapter in a horror story where extremists target innocent civilians with murder, mayhem and fear. “Bin Laden’s death brings a sense of relief to the families who lost loved ones on 9/11 and indeed every American. Our global partners and allies and peoples all over the world – regardless of race, creed, color, country, or religion – stand vigilant and unified with us today to rebuke this extremism and break free from the bondage of fear."
04.15.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the House passed Republican Paul Ryan’s (R-Wis.) budget:“As the Democratic alternative budgets showed, we can get our fiscal house in order without rationing health care for our seniors and low-income Americans. “The other side likes to talk about how Medicare is driving the deficit, but that’s just part of the story. The full story is that private health care costs – and we all know this to be true because we’re all paying more – are rising at a rapid clip, and Medicare can’t keep pace. “The debate we had on this budget could have been the same debate our nation had about the New Deal and Social Security. It could have been the same debate when Medicare and Medicaid became law. And this budget is turning back the clock and taking us to the ‘good old days’ when people are just on their own.”
04.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) and leaders from public interest groups spoke out against Governor Walker’s testimony before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) invited Walker to testify on a hearing about state budgets. Chairman Issa titled the hearing, “State and Local Government Spending Cuts: Choice or Necessity?”Congresswoman Moore said, “We know that Governor Walker’s push to eviscerate workers rights and cut services to seniors, children and low-income Wisconsinites isn’t about balancing the budget. It’s about ideology. This hearing proved that.”Although not a member of the committee, Moore questioned Walker during his appearance earlier today. Her questioning can be seen here. Unfortunately, the hearing was gaveled to a close when Moore concluded, and Walker was unable to respond.Common Cause President Bob Edgar said, "Chairman Issa opted today for political posturing, rather than a serious look at tough budget choices faced by state governments. His lead witness, Gov. Scott Walker, forced his state into tough but false choices, engineering $140 million in tax giveaways for his corporate supporters which he then "offset" by stripping away bargaining rights of public employees."Nick Nyhart, president and CEO of Public Campaign said, “Our political system has turned into a bizarro Robin Hood story in which the politicians take campaign cash from the rich just to give it right back, many times over, in the form of tax breaks, earmarks, and special deals. This is nothing more than political payback to big donors done on the backs of nurses, teachers, and firefighters.”Marge Baker, Executive Vice President of People for the American Way said, “It's time to end the political theatre. It's time to end the shameful and dangerous effort to use our real economic problems as an excuse to shift the burden of our country's debt to working Americans, while shielding billionaires and powerful corporations from paying their fair share.”
04.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement as it is becoming increasingly clear that House Republicans are unable to compromise on legislation that would keep the government open:“It is evident that this debate isn’t about numbers and budget cuts anymore – it’s about ideology. Speaker Boehner acknowledged the need for compromise when he said that they are ‘one-third of one-half of the government,’ but he is beholden to the extreme fringe of his party, for whom compromise might as well be a four-letter word. “Democrats have met Republicans more than halfway on cuts, and yet Republicans are willing to shut down the government over a decades-old policy fight -- access to reproductive health care for women.“And for this, Republicans are willing to delay pay to our troops and rob our economic recovery. Experts estimate that a shut down could cost our economy $8 billion a week. It’s incredulous that this comes down to access to birth control, which by the way, is supported by more than 80 percent of the public.”
04.05.2011	Washington, DC -- Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement after Chairman Paul Ryan unveiled the House Republicans’ budget proposal:“My friend Congressman Ryan has a job to do. He and I agree that we have to get our debt and deficit under control, but we disagree on how to do it.“He keeps saying that Americans deserve to be told the truth. Americans need to know that we cannot cut our way to a balanced budget. And any budget that includes tax cuts for the richest Americans and corporations is not the way to put us on the path to a balanced budget. We learned during the Bush years that tax cuts for millionaires don’t create jobs.“And we can have a conversation about reforming entitlement spending. But again, let’s be honest. Medicare isn’t growing unsustainably – the cost of private health care is growing unsustainably – by double digits annually – and Medicare can’t keep pace. Off the bat, we can save as much as $156 billion in Medicare Part D by negotiating with pharmaceutical companies to reduce the price we pay for prescription drugs. The Affordable Care Act stopped over payments to private Medicare Advantage plans saving $130 billion over 10 years. By fully implementing this law we will bend the cost curve downward and extend the life of Medicare for future generations. Ignoring this low-hanging fruit and turning Medicare into a voucher is an extreme proposal that actually amounts to rationed care. “We can balance the budget without doing it on the backs of working families. And that’s what I’ll be fighting for as we debate this proposal.”
03.18.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) wrote to President Barack Obama seeking ways to prevent negative impacts of Governor Scott Walker’s budget proposal.Her letter touches on some of Governor Walker’s most detrimental proposals including education, health care, food stamps, transit and energy and the environment.In her letter, Moore asks if the Governor’s significant education cuts and voucher and charter expansion jeopardize future Federal funding. She also requests that the administration refuse any Medicaid waiver that would limit health care and to classify birth control as preventive care to ensure access for Wisconsin women. She also asks if the Governor’s steps to privatize food stamps violates Federal law. She asks if the administration has power to allow cities and municipalities to apply directly for food stamps and transit funding. She also asks for guidance as to whether or not collective bargaining changes will cost the state Federal transit funding. Lastly, she asks the administration to issue rules that could allow wind energy to continue in Wisconsin, in light of Governor Walker’s proposed regulation.A signed copy of the letter can be read here. Full text of the letter follows:March 18, 2011Dear Mr. President:My state of Wisconsin is in turmoil over Governor Scott Walker’s changes to collective bargaining rights under the guise of balancing the budget.He recently presented his full budget for the 2011-2013 biennium. It comes as no surprise that his budget is as divisive as his attempt to end collective bargaining.His budget is less about numbers and more about ideology. He slashes education funding, eliminates teacher standards and ties the hands of city leaders to make up for the cuts. He could make seniors and the disabled wait in line for health care. He wants to deny health care to some of the most vulnerable Wisconsinites. He may try to completely privatize food assistance programs. He wants to end city recycling programs – and in separate legislation – he wants to stop wind energy. He has also jeopardized Federal transit funding.Wisconsin and our budget survived this recession much better than many other states. And while I respect the Governor’s duty to present a balanced budget, I question his wisdom to do it on the backs of the working class while giving tax cuts to corporations. I am sure you do too. There is no question about it. Governor Scott Walker’s budget will cost Wisconsin jobs. And when coupled with what Congressional Republicans are trying to do, my district and all of Wisconsin face a dual threat that could severely limit the state’s ability to participate in our nation’s economic recovery. We are under siege, and we need your help. I ask the following:EducationGovernor Walker’s budget expands access to the state’s voucher and charter programs. Before Governor Walker took office, the voucher program had minimal requirements. His budget eliminates testing requirements, income limits, and would allow voucher students to go to school anywhere in Milwaukee County. All this will do is take more funding away from Milwaukee Public Schools. Furthermore, he not only expands charter schools, but he also eliminates teacher licensing standards at these schools. Do these expansions put Federal education funding at risk? He is also cutting elementary and secondary schools statewide by nearly $1 billion, the University of Wisconsin system by $250 million and the state’s technical colleges by $76 million. Does this significant cut jeopardize future Federal funding due to insufficient maintenance of effort? HealthPlease stand strong and refuse any requests for Medicaid waivers that would let Governor Walker reduce healthcare for the elderly and poor. I know that HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has already issued guidance to states outlining ways to reduce costs without drastically curtailing eligibility. I am concerned Governor Walker did not see this guidance as his own health secretary has advocated for states to drop out of Medicaid all together. I – along with many Wisconsinites – believe that Governor Walker can balance the state budget without limiting access to health care.Beyond eliminating state funds for family planning, Governor Walker has also proposed ending state requirements that health insurance policies covering prescription drugs provide coverage for birth control. This will only compound Congressional Republicans’ assault on women’s health care. As regulations implementing health insurance reform are written, I ask that contraceptives be appropriately classified under preventive health so that Governor Walker’s efforts won’t limit Wisconsin women’s access to birth control.Social ServicesFederal law requires that public employees determine eligibility for families to receive food stamps. Governor Walker’s budget would both transfer administration of the program from our counties where families can easily seek answers and get help to the state. He would also privatize administration of this program that many parents rely on to feed their children. This change may not violate the letter of the law, but it certainly violates the spirit. Can your administration issue an opinion on if the governor’s proposal violates Federal law? Also, could administration rule making authority be used to allow cities and municipalities to apply directly for this funding to counteract the governor’s proposal? If not, what legislative changes would you need to do so?Clean Energy and EnvironmentFor America to compete in the 21st century global economy, we need to lead the world in new, clean-energy technologies. Governor Walker has proposed onerous regulation on wind energy that some have said would effectively end further wind energy development in Wisconsin, which would cost the state at least $1.8 billion in investment. Can your administration please issue rules on wind farm standards that could allow this industry to thrive in Wisconsin?His budget eliminates support for city recycling programs. As you know, Wisconsin’s economy relies on a healthy and clean Lake Michigan from shipping to tourism. I am concerned this is just the opening act of an effort that could jeopardize our economy and advances we have made in industries such as water technologies. TransitAs Milwaukee County Executive, Scott Walker was no friend to public transportation. His budget moves transit out of transportation to compete with more priorities for funding, which inevitably will lessen funding.Also, Federal law prohibits altering collective bargaining rights of workers performing transit work. It appears his effort to break public sector unions jeopardizes nearly $50 million in Federal transit money coming to the state. Can your administration issue guidance to Governor Walker as to whether or not his changes to collective bargaining rights will cost the state these transit funds? If the state has indeed lost these funds, could administration rule making be used to allow cities and municipalities to apply directly for these funds? If not, what legislative changes would you need to do so?This may seem exhaustive, but it is just the tip of the proverbial iceberg. His budget will do real damage to Wisconsin. And every day, I grow increasingly concerned that his ideological stubbornness will cost our state good jobs and lock us into this recession longer than we would have otherwise been.Thank you for your assistance.Sincerely, Gwen MooreMember of Congress
03.16.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) introduced legislation that would help schools hire or keep school social workers.School social workers provide a range of services to students from counseling to crisis intervention to addressing truancy. Students who benefit from school social workers face multiple issues at home and school, including disability, poverty, abuse, teen pregnancy, drug addiction, bullying, or more. Congresswoman Moore said, “Kids face big difficulties at home even before they show up to school. These affect their learning and can make them act out, withdraw, or even skip school all together. School social workers have a proven track record of helping students overcome obstacles in their lives and succeed in school, which we know is necessary for future success.”School social workers have been proven effective for improving students’ academic performance, conduct, mental health, attendance and more. Specifically, Moore’s legislation – the School Social Workers Improving Student Success Act -- creates a grant program to help high-need schools hire and retain school social workers to help the most at-risk students.With tightening budgets across the country – including nearly $1 billion of proposed K-12 cuts in Wisconsin alone – Moore’s legislation would help ensure that students do not lose school social workers due to budget cuts. Moore’s bill is supported by the School Social Work Association of America and the National Association of Social Workers.
03.14.2011	Milwaukee, Wis. – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) was in Madison this past weekend to welcome home the “Fabulous 14,” the 14 Wisconsin State Senators who blocked consideration of legislation that would have stripped public workers of nearly all of their collective bargaining rights.Congresswoman Moore said, “By taking a stand, these courageous 14 senators took a major risk and showed great courage. By prolonging debate on this issue, the ‘Fabulous 14’ elevated it to the national consciousness. While this battle may be over, the war continues.”Moore framed a poem about Rosa Parks in honor of the 14 senators. Moore had Federal officials – including Senator Herb Kohl, Representatives Tammy Baldwin and Ron Kind, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, and Representatives John Lewis, Barbara Lee, Jan Schakowsky, Keith Ellison and others sign the poem’s frame. Governor Walker and Republicans in the State Legislature worked around the 14 senators’ protest, and the changes to collective bargaining were signed into law last Friday. Returning to the state after weeks, the senators were welcomed home by a crowd – according to some estimates – of 100,000
03.10.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after Wisconsin State Senate Republicans passed legislation that would strip Wisconsin’s public workers of most of their collective bargaining rights and allow an unelected appointee of Governor Walker to change Wisconsin’s low-income, disabled and senior health care programs with little legislative oversight:“Last night, Wisconsin Republicans proved what we have been saying for a long time – Governor Walker’s desire to eviscerate collective bargaining in Wisconsin is about ideology not about the budget. “We’ve already seen a lot of buyer’s remorse in Wisconsin. It’s no wonder that Governor Walker wants to move beyond this. But instead of negotiating in good faith with workers and listening to Wisconsinites, he rammed this through the State Senate with no debate. “Over the years, Wisconsin’s state health care programs have been among the most successful in the country. In one action in the dark of night, Wisconsin Republicans have jeopardized the health of women, children, and our seniors. With Governor Walker in the driver’s seat, we can kiss goodbye the more than 30 years of bipartisan history in Wisconsin of protecting women’s health – ranging from breast exams to STD tests to birth control. “He may think our memories are short, but we will not forget this. It’s despicable."
03.04.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the news that the economy added just under 200,000 jobs last month and how Governor Walker’s proposed budget could prevent Wisconsin from sharing in our nation’s recovery:“This is great news and the best all-around jobs report we have seen in three years. It sends a message of confidence to employers and is exactly what we need to get our economy back on track. “I’m concerned that Wisconsin may not share in this good news. Governor Walker is making layoffs today because of his stubbornness and refusal to negotiate with workers. The lives and livelihoods of workers and their families should not be used as pawns in an ideological fight.“Governor Walker should know that no state can be open for business if we slam the doors to educational opportunity and take away workers’ rights. His recently proposed budget would stunt Wisconsin’s recovery – not move it forward. For Wisconsin to share in America’s recovery, our state needs to make the right investments. “Our economy cannot recover and businesses cannot grow in Wisconsin if we are losing jobs when other states are gaining them."
03.04.2011	Washington, DC –U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) and Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Chairman Emanuel Cleaver, II led the CBC in writing to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker and asking him to give Wisconsin’s public workers a seat at the negotiating table.Congresswoman Moore said, “The Congressional Black Caucus is often referred to as the conscience of the Congress. Today, we’re locking arms and standing in solidarity with Wisconsin’s public servants. The assault on workers has gone on long enough, and it must stop.” Earlier this week, the members of the CBC, including Congresswoman Moore, spoke on the House Floor in support of Wisconsin’s public workers. A clip of Congresswoman Moore’s speech can be viewed here .The full text of the CBC’s letter follows:Dear Governor Walker:The Congressional Black Caucus stands in solidarity with Wisconsin’s public workers in opposition to your legislation that cuts their employee benefits and strips unions of their collective bargaining rights. Your proposal is blatantly un-American by severely limiting workers’ say on hiring, firing, assignments, and overall worker protections. This union-busting legislation should also not be considered as it jeopardizes the viability of the people during these tough economic times. While we respect your efforts to protect the state budget, your proposed anti-union legislation is both misguided and shortsighted. Wisconsin was the first state to give public sector workers the right to organize and unions continue to play an indispensable role in ensuring the health, safety, and security of the American workers and children. Unions have been critical in the effort to end child labor, establish a fair work day, create financial security, provide unemployment insurance, and establish just wages. It is their inalienable right to defend and protect themselves through collective bargaining. Your legislative proposal will hurt workers in the state, lead to stalled economic growth, and higher unemployment rates. Wisconsin’s working people share your dedication to balancing the budget and have demonstrated their commitment to fiscal responsibility by yielding to demands presented by your administration. Much of their acquiescence was even against their own self-interests and the needs of their families. This includes:• Paying half the retirement system’s cost—5.8% of pay• Paying 12.5% of health care cost, doubling and tripling their current contribution levelsClearly, they have made sacrifices to realign state budgets. However, these sacrifices must be distributed equally amongst the population as a whole—not solely on the backs of the state’s public servants. Union workers are not aiming to drain Wisconsin’s coffers for their own benefit; however, they are merely asking for a voice in your administration concerning the needs of their families and communities. Your constituents and Americans all across the country have made it clear that unionization is a cherished right worth protecting. Unions have not only empowered this nation, but helped create and maintain the American middle class. Responsibility to protect this most basic right must outweigh any commitment to state budget constraints. We urge you to work with your public servants and give them what they rightfully deserve—a seat at the table. A signed copy can be viewed here on Congresswoman Moore’s website.
02.28.2011	Milwaukee, Wis. – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the Wisconsin State Assembly passed a bill that nearly eliminates collective bargaining for public workers:“We’ve known for a long time that these worker provisions aren’t about balancing the budget. We’ve seen it clearly as workers offer up more and more financial concessions. This is about busting unions. And a recent prank call just confirmed it. “Workers have indicated they’ll give up a lot for the good of our state. Now what about Governor Walker? Since when is compromise a dirty word?“This Governor’s proposals are extreme – and recent polling shows it. For years, Republican and Democratic governors alike have at least brought workers to the table. “This fight is far from over. I stand in solidarity with our teachers, our civil servants, our prison workers and all of our public employees.“While the worker provisions are bad enough on their own – this budget repair bill does damage across the board. We could jeopardize transit funding to many communities. Those in need may lose health care with no legislative oversight. The state could sell power plants without competitive bidding which could benefit major donors. We should all be extremely troubled by this."
02.17.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement regarding Federal grants awarded to Wisconsin being returned to Washington as well as news that Wisconsin may refuse Title I education funding:“Scott Walker is channeling Sarah Palin and wants to take us down a road to nowhere.“Wisconsin has traditionally ranked at the bottom when it comes to a return of our taxpayer dollars. In 2009 we jumped from 48th to 21st, and that’s in large part due to a 128 percent increase in grant funding coming to the state. Returning money to Washington will just drive us back down.“It started with the return of $800 million to build high speed rail, leading to the creation of jobs in Illinois and California. Now he’s returning tax dollars that would have increased broadband in schools and helping people file complaints with their insurance companies. What’s next? Governor Walker has taken a twisted view of our state’s motto. It’s Forward, not backwards. “And if he does indeed refuse funding for schools that educate our state’s poorest kids, it’ll be a punch to the gut. If he wants to shut down these schools, he should just come out and say it. Let’s have that debate. It’s hard enough for our kids to learn today, and without this funding, our kids won’t stand a chance.“Someone needs to let Scott Walker know that Sarah Palin doesn’t share Wisconsin values. But, based on protests in Madison, there are many Wisconsinites who seem to want him to follow one page out of her playbook – retire early."
02.14.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the Republican spending bill introduced late last Friday night:“Republicans made a promise to the American people – that turning our economy around and creating jobs is their top priority. This does absolutely nothing to accomplish that goal – in fact, it moves us backwards.“We have to get our debt under control – that’s absolutely critical to our nation’s future. But you know what else is absolutely critical to America’s future success? Scientists trying to find a cure for cancer. Grants that help middle-class families afford college for their kids. Fixing our nation’s crumbling infrastructure. Helping low-income children succeed in school. We won’t move forward by slashing more than $2.5 billion from the National Institutes of Health. We won’t move forward by slashing $800 per student for Pell Grants. We won’t move forward by slashing transportation funding and cutting 25,000 construction jobs. We won’t move forward by forcing 200,000 kids out of Head Start.“Capricious cuts – all in the name of debt reduction – are irresponsible. Spending cuts alone cannot fix our debt problem. The only thing that will get us out of this mess is shared sacrifice."
02.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on efforts that would nearly eliminate Wisconsin public employees’ collective bargaining rights:“Milwaukee and Wisconsin became what they are today because of our strong and skilled workforce. We know better than most that when our workers thrive, our economy thrives. The facts tell the story clearly – a strong community fighting for workers’ rights goes hand in hand with strong middle class wages. “The Governor is cavalierly trying to eliminate rights that Wisconsin workers have historically fought and died for. Public workers are not the enemy. They are skilled and trained workers. They are taxpayers, volunteers, neighbors and friends. They should be invited to the table and treated with respect – just like they have been historically by Republican and Democratic governors alike.“Just like we do in Washington, leaders in Wisconsin need to make some tough budget decisions. But eliminating the rights of our public workers is an attack on Wisconsin’s middle class. It’s an attack on our state’s rich history. And it’s a crushing blow to our working families who are struggling to climb out of this recession.“Wisconsin cannot recover and grow again without a strong middle class.”
02.14.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement in response to the President’s budget just submitted to Congress:“The President’s budget is clearly austere, and it’s also realistic about the cuts we have to make. He knows that we have to do this in a responsible way – unlike my Republican colleagues who recently introduced legislation that makes deep and drastic cuts that will immediately cost jobs and threaten our recovery.“I’m glad that the President included revenue raisers – like finally letting the Bush tax cuts expire and ending subsidies to oil companies. Americans can stand to be told the truth, we can’t just cut and grow. We can’t balance our budget on spending cuts alone. As a share of our economy, Federal taxes are the lowest they have been since the 1950s. To get out of this, everyone must share in the pain.“I’m concerned about cuts to help low-income folks heat their homes because we know cold winters in Wisconsin. I’m concerned about cuts to the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative because we know how important Lake Michigan is to Wisconsin’s economy, history and legacy.“As a member of the Budget Committee, I am going to fight. During these times of austerity, I’m going to fight for struggling working families so that they can have a good future. I’m going to fight for students and make sure that we aren’t putting their futures on hold. I’m going to partner with the President on forward looking initiatives so that we can leave our children and grandchildren a better America."
02.03.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-Wis.), Barney Frank (D-Mass.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Jared Polis (D-Colo.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.) wrote to the Secretaries of Defense and Veterans Affairs to ensure that gays and lesbians discharged under “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” get the benefits they earned.Late last year, President Obama signed legislation authorizing the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” These letters come at a crucial time in the repeal process as Secretary Gates has requested a plan – by tomorrow – that moves repeal forward and recommends Department policy changes.The letters ask Secretaries Gates and Shinseki to address the issue of discharge characterizations in the repeal process. Some gay and lesbian service members discharged under “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” or previous policies were discharged in a way that may block access to health care for veterans, education through the GI Bill and other benefits.Congresswoman Moore said, “Even after we have ceremoniously repealed ‘Don’t’ Ask, Don’t Tell’ we know there are still consequences. For some gays and lesbians the policy might as well have been – don’t ask, don’t tell, don’t provide veterans benefits they earned. We need to get rid of that silent part because we can’t leave anyone behind as our nation moves forward."Congressman Frank said, “While we cannot completely undo the injustice that has been done to gay and lesbian service members, we can at least diminish the harm they suffered by preserving the benefits they earned.”Congresswoman Baldwin said, “It’s time to right a grievous wrong and fully recognize the military service of gay and lesbian Americans discharged under “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” One way of recognizing their service is to allow them the benefits they rightly earned. We cannot undo the injustice these former servicemembers have already suffered, but we can begin to serve them as honorably as they served our country.”Congressman Polis said, “All the men and women who wear the uniform of this country deserve not only our deepest respect, but also our unwavering support regardless of whether they are straight or gay. Repealing DADT was an incredible victory for our nation and strengthens our armed forces, but the fight is not yet entirely over. As we fully implement the repeal of DADT, we must take action to ensure fair treatment for the many soldiers who, despite bravely serving our country, were discharged under this policy. They have earned it."Congressman Cicilline said, “While the discriminatory DADT policy has been repealed, there are still soldiers who may suffer from lack of benefits due to a former dishonorable discharge. The brave men and women defending our country abroad put their lives on the line so that we at home do not have to. These courageous servicemen and women deserve the benefits they rightly earned.” Full text of the letters can be read here: Letter to Secretary Gates Letter to Secretary ShinsekiAlso signing the letters were: Representatives John Yarmuth, Henry Waxman, Luis Gutierrez, Shelley Berkley, Pete Stark, Bobby Rush, Ed Markey, Anthony Weiner, Lois Capps, Mike Doyle, Betty McCollum, Betty Sutton, Barbara Lee, Edolphus Towns, Danny Davis, Maxine Waters, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Russ Carnahan, Chellie Pingree, Al Green, Gregory Meeks, Bob Filner, Jan Schakowsky, Keith Ellison, Jim Moran, Karen Bass, Donna Edwards, and John Lewis.
01.26.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) offered an amendment to preserve every-day Americans’ opportunity to contribute to the Presidential Election Campaign Fund (PECF), which publicly funds elections and limits candidates’ ability to accept large donations.Congresswoman Moore said, “The Citizens United Supreme Court decision bestowed an uninhibited right of free speech, in terms of endless political donations, upon corporations. Eliminating publicly financed campaigns can silence that speech in every day Americans and allow corporations to dominate elections even more.”The House today considered legislation to eliminate the PECF. Currently, between 7 and 8 percent of Americans check the box on their tax returns to direct $3 of their tax liability to the fund, which amounts to about $50 million a year.Congresswoman Moore offered an amendment which would keep the PECF in tact by allowing Americans to instead donate $3 of their own money to the fund. The Congressional Budget Office scored Moore’s amendment as saving $400 million over 10 years.Moore said, “Rather than eliminating publicly financed campaigns all together, we should be working in a bipartisan way to reform this program. We don’t need to throw the baby out with the bathwater.”A point of order was raised against Moore’s amendment, and it would have been ruled out of order. She discussed her amendment on the House Floor earlier today, video can be seen here
01.25.2011	Washington, DC – United States Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), who sat with Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyoming), co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Caucus, made the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union speech tonight:“The President shared his vision of how we will win the future.“We must ensure that the next scientists, the next inventors, the next great job-creating ideas – are made right here in America. We must invest to create jobs. We must invest in education. We must invest in innovation. We must invest in rebuilding our great country. And the President proposed a 5 year budget freeze. This will be painful for many, but it’s a step to getting our fiscal house in order responsibly. “But Republicans want to take a giant leap beyond that freeze and move us backward. They’d take us back by slashing and burning some of our most important investments – investments in research and development; investments in our children; and investments in transportation and infrastructure. And even go back on the promises we have made to our seniors and our veterans.“Earlier today, Republicans approved a measure that could do just that. But they ignored a big piece of the budget pie – defense. They should take a cue from John Dillinger who said he robbed banks because that’s where the money is. That’s where the cuts are too. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates is calling on Congress to consider about $80 billion in cuts to defense spending. He gets that any solution to our fiscal mess needs to address unneeded defense spending. We need to consider those cuts.“The bottom line is that it’s regrettable that the GOP wants to take us back. They want to undo the progress we’ve made. They want to give up on making America competitive in the 21st Century. And to add insult to injury, their plans aren’t even fiscally sound. You just can’t balance the budget on spending cuts especially at the same time as working to get rid of the capital gains tax and the estate tax.”
01.19.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) won a prized seat on the House Budget Committee -- now chaired by Wisconsin Republican Paul Ryan.Following Democratic electoral losses and the subsequent reshaping of committees, many House Democrats lost committee assignments. In the previous Congress, Moore served on both the House Budget and Financial Services Committees. She was widely expected to keep only her seat on the exclusive House Financial Services Committee.Congresswoman Moore said, “I fought hard to stay on the Budget Committee to continue fighting for everyday working families. And the committee will be more important than it has been for some time -- what happens on the Budget Committee directly impacts which programs get funded and which ones do not. Chairman Ryan and I don’t always agree, but we always get along. I’m excited to continue working with him to achieve results for Wisconsin.” Moore also is serving in several leadership roles in the 112th Congress. She co-chairs the bipartisan Congressional Women’s Caucus and chairs the Democratic Women’s Working Group. Last month, now-Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi named Moore to the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, which recommends committee assignments for Democratic Members of Congress as well as leadership spots on House committees.
01.19.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the House voted to repeal the new health insurance reform law that will help more than 30 million Americans afford health insurance, give small businesses tax credits to help insure their employees and implement necessary consumer protections:“Republicans have the chance to walk the walk, but they are walking away from it. All throughout the debate on health insurance reform, Republicans said they supported consumer protections like the ban on pre-existing condition denials or charging women more than men for the same coverage. Where’d the support go over the past year?“As chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group, I led 45 of my colleagues in outlining to Speaker Boehner what’s at risk for women if this new law is repealed. Women were among those who gained the most, and now they’re among those with the most to lose. If this law is repealed, once again, a woman could be denied insurance because she’s been the victim of domestic violence. If this law is repealed, once again, a woman could be denied insurance because she’d been pregnant. If this law is repealed, once again, women could be charged more money for the same coverage as men.“Just today, I met with a father who told me the story of his 25 year-old daughter who is going to school. She needed emergency gall bladder surgery. Without reform, they would have had to pay out of pocket. Repeal has real consequences. “When Congress passed health insurance reform, I said that it wasn’t perfect, and that we’ll have to work to make it better. Recent polling shows that only 18 percent of Americans want the law completely repealed. Can we make this law even better? Yes. But should we take away the new protections? Should we repeal the security families now have -- knowing that they aren’t one diagnosis away from bankruptcy? No way!”
01.07.2011	Washington, DC – As House Republicans are preparing for a vote to repeal health care reform, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) is fighting to keep protections for women and tax credits for moderate and low-income families.Congresswoman Moore, Chair of the Democratic Women’s Working Group said, “For half of our population, simply being born female was a pre-existing condition. We fixed that. But Republicans want to take that protection away.”Women were among those who had the most to gain from health insurance reform. If the law were repealed, women would no longer be protected from:Discriminatory Gender Rating in Health Insurance Premiums. If the law were repealed, insurance companies again would be able to charge women more than men for the same coverage.Pre-Existing Condition Denial of Coverage: If the law were repealed, insurance companies could again deny women health insurance on the basis of pre-existing conditions, which have included pregnancy, c-sections, or having been a victim of domestic violence. Moore led 45 of her colleagues in writing to Speaker Boehner about how repealing the law would be devastating for women. A copy of the letter can be read here .Moore also co-authored an amendment, which would have preserved tax credits for moderate and low-income people to help buy health insurance. Her amendment was blocked by the House Rules Committee.Congresswoman Moore said, “Families at the brink of poverty are set to receive a tax credit to help them afford health insurance. Republicans must think that these families don’t need help. And after all their rhetoric about tax cuts stimulating the economy and not adding to the deficit, what’s wrong with helping families ease the burden of paying their monthly premiums?”A final vote on the repeal measure is expected next week
12.20.2010	Milwaukee Congresswoman at White House as President Signs BillWashington, DC –U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) was on hand at the White House today as President Barack Obama signed a modified version of her legislation – the Family Violence and Prevention Services Act (FVPSA), which expands and improves services to victims of domestic violence and their families.Congresswoman Moore said, “I’m so proud to watch President Obama sign this much-needed legislation into law. It’s a huge victory. Domestic violence shelters in Wisconsin and throughout the country have been absolutely stretched to their limits by increased demand, and they’ve been forced to turn victims away. Today, we’re standing with victims of domestic violence and saying that the status quo has got to go.” Highlights of the newly-enacted FVPSA also in Moore’s original version include:· Improving and expanding services for children exposed to domestic violence;· Helping teenage victims by expanding services to include dating violence;· Targeted, culturally-competent services specifically for victims in underserved communities; and· Making it easier for shelters to apply for grants by bringing FVPSA language in sync with the Violence Against Women Act.Moore continued, “Despite all of our gains, domestic violence is still a crisis. One in every four women will experience domestic violence in her life. In my state alone, deaths from domestic violence are the highest in a decade. This bill moves us forward in our fight to end domestic violence once and for all.”She spoke on the House Floor earlier this month, when her bill was considered as part of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act.Moore introduced FVPSA in November of 2009. This fall, she appeared on the Dr. Phil Show to talk about the need for her legislation. She was recently recognized for her leadership on this issue with an award from the National Network to End Domestic Violence.Moore has also written legislation that would help low-income victims escape domestic violence. It is difficult for any victim to escape, but that’s especially true for low-income people. Her legislation waives certain requirements of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program for victims of domestic violence, who often can be found by their abusers through program participation. She also worked to create the Brides Walk – an annual event held in Milwaukee – to help raise awareness of domestic violence in the Latino community.
12.16.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore made the following statement after she voted against legislation that extends Bush tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires and weakens the current estate tax rate, which together cost the government nearly $130 billion over two years:“These tax cuts were controversial when they were first enacted in 2001 and 2003 at a time when our country had a record surplus. And after that, we’ve had two unpaid-for wars, Hurricane Katrina, the oil spill, and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. When we talk about extending these tax cuts in a package with a price tag of more than $800 billion for two years at a time of record debt and deficit, we just can’t be serious. “After all their talk about debt and deficit, I think it’s absolutely nonsensical that the Republicans’ opening bid is tax cuts for millionaires or bust. The plight of the millions of unemployed ought to stand on its own, not be held hostage to the less than 40,000 of America’s richest families who stand to benefit from changes in the estate tax.“When it comes to extending tax cuts, it’s important to pick and choose. A wholesale extension – even of President Bush’s tax cuts for families earning less than $250,000 – disproportionately help our country’s highest earners.“It’s hard for me to see what will be different in two years that will make it easier to end the tax cuts then – and before we know it, they’ll be permanent and our budget will be balanced on the backs of our most vulnerable neighbors."
12.15.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after she voted to repeal “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”:“A recently released Pentagon study showed what many of us have known and argued for years. Letting gays and lesbians serve openly in the armed services will not have a significant impact on troop morale or unit cohesion. I hope this report puts that question to rest for many in Congress who are fighting this change even though nearly 80 percent of Americans support repealing this flawed and out-dated policy.“We’ve seen support from the top to the bottom of the Pentagon to repeal this policy that stands in direct opposition to the military’s high standards of honor and integrity because it forces patriotic Americans to lie about who they are.“It is my hope that the Senate acts swiftly to bring justice for gay and lesbian service members.”
12.09.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the Department of Transportation rescinded $810 million from Wisconsin to build high-speed rail in another state: “A month before he’s even been sworn into to office, Governor-elect Walker has lost good jobs for Wisconsinites. He’s denied our state an opportunity to be part of a new, nationwide transportation system that would have brought economic benefits along with it. “Instead of graciously accepting a return of our hard-earned tax dollars, Governor-elect Walker’s hard-lined position is sending them somewhere else to create jobs. “I hope to be proven wrong, but I think this will build a fence around Wisconsin. We’ll be forced to watch economic development in Illinois and in Minnesota as both states continue a commitment to a rail a line that connects Chicago and the Twin Cities. And it’s a gift we’ll have handed them.”
12.08.2010	Modified Version of Moore’s Family Violence and Prevention Services Act Heads to SenateWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a modified version of Congresswoman Gwen Moore’s (D-Milwaukee) Family Violence and Prevention Services Act (FVPSA), to expand and improve services to victims of domestic violence and their families.The House passed FVPSA unanimously as part of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act. The Senate is expected to pass the measure soon.Congresswoman Moore said, “This is a huge victory. Domestic violence shelters in Wisconsin and throughout the country have been absolutely stretched to their limits by increased demand, and they’ve been forced to turn victims away. Passing this legislation shows victims of domestic violence that we stand with them and won’t stand for this anymore.” Highlights of the House-Passed FVPSA also in Moore’s original version include:Improving and expanding services for children exposed to domestic violence;Helping teenage victims by expanding services to include dating violence;Targeted, culturally-competent services specifically for victims in underserved communities; andMaking it easier for shelters to apply for grants by bringing FVPSA language in sync with the Violence Against Women Act.Moore continued, “Despite all of our gains, domestic violence is still a crisis. One in every four women will experience domestic violence in her life. In my state alone, deaths from domestic violence are the highest in a decade. This bill won’t solve every problem, but it moves us forward in our fight to end domestic violence once and for all.”Moore introduced FVPSA in November of 2009. This fall, she appeared on the Dr. Phil Show to talk about the need for her legislation. She was recently recognized for her leadership on this issue with an award from the National Network to End Domestic Violence.Moore has also written legislation that would help low-income victims escape domestic violence. It is difficult for any victim to escape, but that’s especially true for low-income people. Her legislation waives certain requirements of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program for victims of domestic violence, who often can be found by their abusers through program participation. She also worked to create the Brides Walk – an annual event held in Milwaukee – to help raise awareness of domestic violence in the Latino community.
12.06.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) has been selected to serve on the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, which recommends committee assignments for Democratic Members of Congress as well as leadership spots on House committees.Congresswoman Moore said, “I’m honored to be selected to serve in this capacity. I look forward to working with my colleagues from across the country to help Democrats in Congress achieve our policy goals.”Moore, the only Wisconsinite currently serving on the committee, is one of 13 appointed members. The committee, chaired by Representatives George Miller (D-Calif.) and Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), also has 12 regionally selected members. Additionally, several standing committee chairs serve on the Steering and Policy Committee.
12.02.2010	Child Nutrition Bill includes Key Provisions Championed by MooreWashington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that includes provisions championed by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) that help increase access to school breakfast and afterschool snacks and meals for low-income children.Moore has introduced legislation that expands school breakfast programs and access to after school snack and third meal programs. The Healthy, Hunger Free Kids Act includes much of what Moore’s legislation aims to accomplish and now goes to President Obama to become law.Congresswoman Moore said, “Just last month, USDA reported that nearly 1 million American children don’t know when they’ll have their next meal. This is a crisis, and it’s not getting better. By helping schools offer more meals to students in need, either in the morning or after school, we confront this crisis head on. And even beyond that, we help improve chances for our kids to do better in school because we know that when children go to school hungry, it’s harder for them to succeed. I look forward to watching President Obama sign my provisions into law.”Provisions championed by Moore included in the legislation, include:A grant program to help schools expand or start school breakfast programs. And these grants are targeted to schools where the most students qualify for free or reduced priced meals.Allowing after school programs in every state to use existing funding to serve afterschool meals and snacks.The legislation also sets nutritional standards to help curb childhood obesity.
12.02.2010	Washington, DC -- Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after she voted against continuing $3 trillion in tax cuts enacted by President George W. Bush:“Every American knows debt is a serious problem, and we need to get our fiscal house in order. As a percentage of our economy, spending is the highest it’s been in 60 years and revenue is at the lowest. “We have to make tough spending cuts next year. If we start with $3 trillion in tax cuts out of the gate, those cuts will be even tougher. And they will disproportionately impact society’s most vulnerable. When we start talking about cutting help for seniors to heat their homes in winter, for kids to have a safe place to go after school, or even police and firefighters to protect our communities, we can’t talk out of both sides of our mouths.”
12.01.2010	Washington, DC –U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), member of the House Budget Committee, made the following statement after the President’s deficit commission released its report today:“We can all agree that we need to get a handle on our nation’s debt and deficit problems. And I come to the table with an open mind because we will all need to sacrifice. We’re all going to have to stomach some changes that we don’t like. This is the beginning of a needed discussion, and it will be a long process.“The question remains – who has to carry the burden? Working families have been squeezed through this recession and some austerity measures threaten to squeeze them even further. But they just can’t be squeezed any more. Furthermore, our economy can’t afford that right now either.“As Congress debates extending tax cuts for millionaires, it’s important to remember that those tax cuts and unpaid-for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan obliterated a budget surplus just a decade ago. It was then, and it is now, all about priorities. “I’m concerned about consequences of many of the proposed cuts on working families, seniors, and women and children. I’m concerned how certain tax increases – like the gas tax – will hurt those who were already having trouble filling up their cars. And I’m greatly concerned that it appears the proposal drastically cuts taxes for millionaires. I’m heartened to see that the commission looked at cutting unnecessary military spending and included a proposal to limit war-time spending.“As I study the commission’s report in further detail, as well as alternative proposals by colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I will work to make sure that working families, seniors and children don’t carry the burden of fixing our nation’s debt and deficit problems because they had no role in creating them.”
11.30.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Claims Resolution Act, which reauthorizes Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Contingency Fund for an additional year and includes payment for decades-old discrimination against African-American farmers and Native Americans.Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) said, “A short-term TANF extension is less than ideal. This recession is driving more and more families into poverty; in fact, more Americans are living in poverty today than at any time over the last 50 years. We need a long-term solution that strengthens our safety net.”Between 1981 and 1996, the Agriculture Department discriminated against black farmers in terms of loans and other assistance. In February of this year, USDA reached a settlement with remaining claimants. The bill also brings a resolution to a long-running class action suit against the Interior Department for mismanaging Native American land and not fairly distributing gas and oil royalties made off the land to Native Americans.Moore continued, “Institutional discrimination is real, and we should be embarrassed that it’s taken Washington this long to make this right. This long-overdue legislation brings justice to those who were wronged and moves us forward.”Earlier this month, the legislation unanimously passed the Senate. It passed the House by a vote of 256 to 152 and goes to President Obama for his signature.
11.10.2010	Milwaukee, Wis. – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the eve of Veteran’s Day to honor Wisconsin’s veterans:“As American men and women are deployed across the world, we keep them in our hearts and our minds. We must work to keep our promises to them when they return.“I’m proud of all we’ve done to expand access to care for veterans here in Wisconsin. We’ve added more counselors to help our vets deal with the invisible wounds of war. And we’re currently updating the Zablocki VA Spinal Cord Injury Unit so that we can adequately care for our returning vets, especially with the rising incidence of Traumatic Brain Injuries in Iraq and Afghanistan. When it’s fully operational, it will serve vets throughout Wisconsin and neighboring states. “I’m working with the Veterans Administration and the National Parks Service to help ensure that we can we restore the Civil War era buildings on Milwaukee’s VA grounds. President Lincoln chose that spot for us to care for the brave soldiers who risked their lives for our fledgling country, and these buildings are part of our state’s rich history. I’ve fought to make sure that they can’t be used for anything other than serving our vets, and I am working so that they can be maintained to remain part of Wisconsin’s legacy.“Nationally, we’ve improved the GI Bill. We’ve expanded services to include families. And we’ve been helping troops who were kept in Iraq and Afghanistan after they were supposed to come home. So far, we’ve made retroactive stop loss payments to about half of the eligible troops. But, that means there are about 70,000 some troops nationwide who qualify and may not know it. Troops and vets whose service was involuntarily extended between September 11, 2001 and September 30, 2009 are eligible. For more information on the payment, visit: www.defense.gov/stoploss.“The fight isn’t over. I won’t stop working until our veterans have all the support they’ve earned.”
11.09.2010	Milwaukee, Wis. – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after she spoke with Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood regarding Governor-Elect Walker’s efforts to stop high-speed rail:“I told Secretary LaHood that I will keep fighting to create jobs in Wisconsin – not in New York, Florida or Illinois. I will keep working to make sure that Wisconsin doesn’t lose these jobs. We won’t meet the goal of adding jobs when the first move is subtraction.“Secretary LaHood told me that if Wisconsin stops the train, DOT has no choice but to take the funding back.“I also learned that Secretary LaHood is eager to sit down with Governor-Elect Walker to make sure he knows exactly what’s at risk and that he has the most accurate numbers, especially when it comes to the operating cost. I hope Governor-Elect Walker takes him up on that offer.”
11.08.2010	Milwaukee, Wis. – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded the news that Wisconsin will receive emergency food assistance for families impacted by flooding last summer.Individual and family eligibility requirements are:On July 22, 2010 either living or working in Milwaukee zip codes, 53205, 53206, 53209, 53210, 53211, 53212, 53216, 53218, 53222, 53224 and 53225:Had loss of food, home damage or income loss due to flooding and aftermath.Did not receive maximum FoodShare benefits for July 2010.Congresswoman Moore said, “Every little bit helps, and I’m so glad that some Milwaukee families who have been struggling to recover from the flood will get extra help to buy their groceries.”Those currently enrolled in FoodShare, and who:Have received replacement benefits after the flooding will automatically receive disaster benefits on their Quest cards on November 25, 2010.Have not received replacement benefits after the flooding can apply by calling 1-888-947-6583 beginning tomorrow, November 9, 2010 until November 17, 2010.Current FoodShare enrollees do not have to apply in person. Families who have already received the maximum benefit and are therefore ineligible will be notified by the state Department of Health Services.If you are not currently enrolled in FoodShare and had loss of income and disaster related expenses you may be eligible for a one-time emergency benefit. To determine eligibility, you must complete an application in person from November 9, 2010 until November 17, 2010.Milwaukee County residents can apply at either of the following locations:Coggs Building UMOS South1220 West Vliet Street 2701 South Chase AvenueMilwaukee, WI 53205 Milwaukee, WI 53207
11.05.2010	Milwaukee, Wis. – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today wrote to Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle and Governor-Elect Scott Walker after the decision to temporarily stop work on Wisconsin’s high-speed rail project.The full text of Congresswoman Moore’s letter follows:November 5, 2010Dear Governor Doyle and Governor-Elect Walker:It is critical that Wisconsin continue work on the high-speed rail line from Milwaukee to Madison that will eventually connect to the Twin Cities in Minnesota.Offering more options to connect people to their jobs is an economic win-win for our state. This is especially true for low-income people, many of whom have no viable transportation option and can’t get to where the jobs are. And as part of the vision of a nationwide high speed rail network, the economic benefits to our state will be plentiful.In Milwaukee, Talgo will create jobs building cars for high speed rail. They will build cars for rail in Oregon, and they should be able to build rail cars to be used in Wisconsin as well. Stopping work on the project puts these jobs in great jeopardy. This is about our future, not about our past.We all share the same goal of creating good jobs for Wisconsinites. The election is over, and this shouldn’t be about politics. It should be about people and family-supporting jobs. Undoubtedly, building a high speed rail line creates jobs. And more jobs will come once it is operational.Furthermore, the truth remains, if the funding isn’t used in Wisconsin for high-speed rail, the funding will not be used in Wisconsin at all. Sending this funding back is misguided and does nothing to help Wisconsin taxpayers. If anything, it sends their money away to build high-speed rail somewhere else.As it stands today, Wisconsin gets less back from the Federal government than Wisconsinites pay in Federal taxes. Sending $810 million back to Washington only makes this worse. Sincerely,Gwen MooreMember of Congress
11.04.2010	Contract for Marinette could Create Jobs in MilwaukeeMilwaukee, Wis. – Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) has long worked to help Wisconsin-based Marinette Marine get a contract to build new naval ships.The contract could create jobs at Milwaukee-based DRS Power & Control Technologies, Inc., which makes electronic parts for the ships.Congresswoman Moore said, “To help bring our economy back, we have to build things in Wisconsin again. I know we have the best workforce and that no one can out build us. I will keep working to ensure that these ships can be built in Wisconsin, and help suppliers create jobs in Milwaukee and throughout the state.”Moore was active in getting the U.S.S. Freedom commissioned in Milwaukee, and she has spoken to the Secretary of the Navy and written to the President in support of bringing this work to Wisconsin.
10.07.2010	Milwaukee Congresswoman Given Visionary Leadership Award by National Network to End Domestic ViolenceWashington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) was honored by the National Network to End Domestic Violence (NNEDV) for her work to end domestic violence and help victims recover.Congresswoman Moore said, “I am extremely honored to receive this award – but this isn’t a time to celebrate, it’s a time to refocus and redouble our efforts. We have a real crisis on our hands. In my state alone, deaths from domestic violence are at the highest in 10 years. The increased incidence of abuse along with the fact that shelters are operating on shoe-string budgets – fails victims – and we can do better. Shelters cannot do more with less. We need to expand services. We need to give victims and their families a safe place. And we need to end domestic violence.”Moore authored bipartisan legislation – The Family Violence Prevention and Services Act -- that would expand and update vital services for victims of domestic violence and their families. The bill authorizes funding for essential services that help keep shelters open. It also improves culturally sensitive services and therapy for children to help break the cycle of violence. She recently appeared on the Dr. Phil show to discuss the need for her legislation, which is currently supported by 119 U.S. Representatives. Video of her appearance can be seen here. Moore has also written legislation to help low-income victims escape domestic violence. It can be very difficult for any victim to escape an abuser, but that’s especially true for low-income people, who often can be found by their abusers through certain requirements of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program. Her legislation waives some of those requirements to keep victims safe.Moore also worked to create the Brides Walk – an annual event held in Milwaukee – to help raise awareness of domestic violence in the Latino community.The awards are given in October to commemorate Domestic Violence Awareness Month. U.S. Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) was also recognized along with the Mary Kay Foundation and SafePlace and the MIJAS Program, a local domestic violence program in Olympia, Wash. Photos are available upon request. More information on the event and awardees can be found here.
10.05.2010	Moore Worked to Include Funding in Wall Street Reform BillWashington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) announced that Wisconsin will receive more than $51.5 million to help keep unemployed homeowners in their homes.This announcement comes on the heels of news that after months of decline, foreclosure rates in Southeastern Wisconsin rose last month.Moore, a member of the House Financial Services Committee, worked to create this new program in recently enacted Wall Street reform legislation. The bill was signed into law last July and the Housing Department began distributing the funding today.Moore said, “This new and important program gives families a real sense of security during these uncertain times. By helping unemployed homeowners stay in their homes, in many cases, we can prevent a bad situation from getting even worse.”Under the program, qualified homeowners can receive up to $50,000 in low-interest loans to help pay their mortgage payments and avoid foreclosure. Moore continued, “Foreclosures played a major role in the financial crisis and further threaten the security of families who have fallen on hard times. This crucial provision does double duty – it helps keep families in their homes and helps communities by reducing foreclosures.”
09.30.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) announced that $1.2 million is headed to Milwaukee to help spur community development in low-income areas.Two Milwaukee-based Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) will each receive $600,000 to help provide loans to small businesses and for affordable housing.The awards to Legacy Bancorp, Inc and North Milwaukee State Bank are part of $25 million announced nationwide through the Treasury Department’s Bank Enterprise Award program. Recipients were chosen based on lending and investment in areas where 30 percent of the population lives at or below the poverty level and where unemployment is 1.5 percent higher than the national average. Congresswoman Moore said, “It’s not news that people are struggling and Milwaukee is hurting. And recent reports just tell us what we already knew – this recession is driving more people into poverty. This will help lift up some of our city’s most distressed neighborhoods by leveraging private investment.”
09.23.2010	Washington, DC-- Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded House passage of much delayed legislation to help small businesses expand and create 500,000 jobs. President Obama is expected to sign the bill into law on Monday.Congresswoman Moore, a cosponsor of the legislation and member of the House Financial Services Committee said, “There’s some irony in today’s vote. As House Republicans unveiled an agenda with lofty rhetoric about helping small businesses – what did they do? They did what they always do -- they said no. And they continue to hold tax-cuts for 97 percent of our small businesses hostage to tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires.”The bill makes $30 billion in loans available to community banks and provides incentive for banks to increase lending. It also extends and enacts tax cuts to help small businesses expand and create jobs. Tax relief for small businesses passed today, includes:Elimination of capital gains from key small business key investments.The highest small business expensing limit – up to $500,000.Allowing self-employed Americans to deduct the cost of their health insurance.Moore continued, “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and have created more than half of our nation’s new jobs over the past 15 years. This will help small businesses that are ready to grow and create jobs, but have been held back because of limited access to credit.”The legislation is completely paid for by closing tax loopholes for corporations that ship jobs overseas. It passed on a mostly party-line vote of 237 to 187.
09.23.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after House Republicans introduced their legislative agenda:“Don’t be fooled – there’s nothing new about this.“Tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires and breaks for big businesses didn’t create jobs over the last 10 years. Why would we think it would be any different this time?“Government has a rightful role to protect consumers from greed and fraud, but this agenda gives power back to corporations. We’ve had enough of that – we know right where it leads us.”
09.22.2010	(Washington, DC) – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) said that Wisconsin families will have a greater sense of security when it comes to their health care as key consumer protection provisions included in health insurance reform legislation go into effect tomorrow.Congresswoman Moore said, “For far too long, insurance companies could tell a child born with asthma – ‘Sorry, we can’t help you -- preexisting condition.’ For too long, they could tell someone just diagnosed with a major illness – ‘Sorry, we aren’t covering you anymore.’ For too long, they could tell someone who has always paid premiums – lying sick in the hospital, ‘Sorry, we’re not paying anymore. You’ve met your limit.’ Enough is enough. Wisconsinites can breathe a sigh of relief and feel more secure that this won’t happen ever again.”The following key consumer protections go into effect – for plans beginning or renewed starting tomorrow:Coverage cannot be canceled because you get sick.Children with preexisting conditions cannot be denied insurance. This provision will apply to all people in 2014.Children can stay on their parents’ insurance until age 26.Insurance plans cannot have lifetime payment limits.Insurance plans’ annual payment limits begin phase out -- will be completely eliminated by 2014.Moore continued, “These reforms give families peace of mind that rug won’t pulled out from under them the second someone gets sick. I’ll be the first to say it – this law isn’t perfect. We’ll have to improve it along the way, but I will stand up for these reforms and fight any effort to repeal them. ”Key provisions also go into effect for women. Beginning tomorrow, women purchasing new plans will have the following benefits:No deductible or co-pay on preventive services such as mammograms, immunizations and pre-natal care.No longer need a referral to see an OB-GYN.
09.18.2010	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after FEMA amended Milwaukee's disaster declaration following last summer's flood to include individual assistance:“When he was here on Labor Day, I spoke to President Obama about how our community is struggling to recover from the flooding and how much we need help.“I am thrilled that FEMA saw what we have seen – the devastation and how much families are hurting - and is finally granting individual assistance.“While this won't fix every issue, it will help families rebuild or replace essentials and give a greater sense of security and safety before winter.”###Constituents with disaster-related damages are encouraged to register with FEMA by calling (800) 621-3362, TTY (800) 462-7585 for people with speech or hearing disabilities, or online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov.
09.16.2010	Washington, DC –Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the Census Bureau’s report that nearly 43.6 million people in America are living in poverty – the highest number over the past 50 years:“We’ve known that this recession and persistent unemployment are hurting our families, and this report clearly shows the impact. With one in five children living in poverty, we must act.“While the private sector has been adding jobs consistently over the past months, it’s just not happening fast enough. We’re working to help small businesses expand and create jobs, and we recently passed legislation to prevent massive layoffs in cities and states across the country. There is still more that needs to be done to get us fully out of this recession. “This report should be a wake up call to Congress as we debate extending tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. We are in the toughest of times, and we need to get our priorities straight. I will keep fighting for people who are struggling every single day.”
09.08.2010	Congresswoman Worked to include Funding in Wall Street Reform LegislationWashington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded an announcement that Milwaukee will receive nearly $2.7 million to help neighborhoods fix and maintain properties that are vacant due to foreclosure.Moore worked with her Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) colleagues on the House Financial Services Committee to include funding for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) in recently enacted Wall Street reform legislation.Congresswoman Moore said, “Many of our neighborhoods are still reeling from foreclosures, and the situation may not get better until our economy has fully recovered from this recession. This crucial funding will help the city fix properties and reduce blight in the hardest hit neighborhoods.”Recent reports show that Southeastern Wisconsin’s foreclosure filings fell in June and July of 2010 (compared to the same months the year before), but that filings rose last month. The State of Wisconsin will receive an additional $5 million. NSP helps communities stabilize housing markets by purchasing and redeveloping foreclosed and abandoned properties. Foreclosures not only weaken property values and the housing market, they can devastate neighborhoods and increase blight and crime.
08.18.2010	Milwaukee, Wis.– U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore made the following statement after learning that FEMA denied the state’s application for individual assistance following last month’s torrential rain storm and flooding:“I am extremely disappointed that FEMA will not be providing individual assistance, especially as I remain concerned about the safety of people in homes that may not have a working furnace come winter. “I am as committed as ever to working with state, local and federal officials to find resources to help our communities recover and rebuild.”
08.11.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after President Obama signed a disaster declaration granting FEMA public assistance to help Milwaukee County recover from recent flooding and as FEMA still considers the state’s application for individual assistance:“I am so glad that communities will get Federal help to clean up from these storms and fix roads and bridges and schools, and I thank the President for acting so quickly.“Over the course of a couple hours – houses were ruined, precious life was taken and lives were devastated. And safety is a concern of many families who may be living without water heaters or don’t know if their furnaces will work come winter.“My office has talked with FEMA this afternoon and FEMA said they are still reviewing the state’s application for individual assistance. I urge them to quickly approve this request because the toll from these storms is all too real and people need help.”
08.10.2010	House Comes Back into Session to Pass Fully Paid-For Emergency LegislationWashington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) supported emergency legislation that will keep more than 160,000 teachers in classrooms throughout the country and help ease state budget shortfalls and keep essential services, including Medicaid.Congresswoman Moore said, “We’re in a dire situation and states and cities continue laying off teachers. This bill not only prevents massive layoffs in our already struggling economy – it also recognizes that larger classes deny our kids a quality education.”Wisconsin stands to keep an estimated 3,000 teachers from losing their jobs under this legislation. And according to the National Education Association, more than 1,000 of these jobs will be in Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District, which Moore represents. Additionally, more than 40 governors, including 16 Republicans, support extending Medicaid assistance to states, as is done in this bill. Last month, Congresswoman Moore led 116 of her colleagues in asking House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and House Minority Leader John Boehner to bring this funding up for a vote. The full letter can be read here . Wisconsin will receive $229 million to help provide health care services through Medicaid.The legislation is fully paid for by closing tax loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas as well as rescinding already appropriated funding that is no longer needed. It also reduces the deficit by $1.4 billion over the next 10 yearsThe bill also ends increased food stamp benefits in 2014, a few years earlier than would have happened otherwise. Congresswoman Moore offered an amendment, which would have kept these increased levels in place until 2015 and would have offset additional funding by cutting nearly $3 billion from the Education Department’s Race to the Top competition, which was the offset used by the House earlier this year to pass funding for teachers’ jobs. The House Rules Committee prevented her amendment from being considered.The legislation now goes to President Obama for his signature.
07.30.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a provision authored by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) to ensure that Gulf Coast residents – including the fishermen and business owners impacted by the BP oil spill – have a voice in clean up and restoration.Congresswoman Moore said, “It’s going to take a long time to clean up this mess and restore the Gulf. The people who live off of and enjoy these beaches, marshes and wetlands need a say in how this gets done.”Moore’s provision was included in the manager’s amendment to the CLEAR Act, legislation that will implement new drilling safety standards, hold BP responsible and eliminate liability limits, and strengthen federal drilling oversight. The legislation sets up a task force – to be made up of Gulf State governors and the heads of relevant Federal Agencies. Her provision requires the task force create a Citizen’s Advisory Board – including fisherman and business owners impacted by the spill – to assist in its work.Congresswoman Moore spoke on the House Floor about her provision earlier today. Video can be seen here .The legislation also creates a new conservation fund – paid for by oil revenues – to protect the Great Lakes and oceans.The legislation now goes to the Senate for consideration.
07.29.2010	Moore Also Worked to Include Funding for Hoan BridgeWashington, DC – Today, an amendment offered by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) to help qualified small and minority-owned businesses compete for transportation projects passed to the transportation funding bill for fiscal year 2011.The House is expected to vote on the overall bill later this evening.Congresswoman Moore said, “When it comes to Federal contracts, small businesses have a tough time getting their foot in the door. And that’s doubly true for minority-owned small businesses. We need to do better than that to help pull our economy out of this recession. My amendment sends the message that helping qualified small businesses participate in transportation projects must be a top priority.”Moore’s amendment increases funding for small and minority-owned business outreach efforts by $325,000. Specifically, her amendment directs $225,000 for counseling and technical support to help small businesses apply for federal transportation work and $100,000 to the U.S. Department of Transportation office charged with developing policies to help ensure fair competition for small businesses.Moore also offered an amendment to help cover costs to redeck the Hoan Bridge. Her amendment, which would have directed $500,000 for use on the Hoan, was ruled out of order Moore spoke on the House floor with Congressman John Olver, Chairman of the House Appropriations Transportation Subcommittee, about working in the future on the bridge. Additionally, the bill also allows for $250 million in transit funding to be used for operational costs. Congress must pass separate legislation to free up the funding, which would ease the burden on local transit agencies, which – just like Milwaukee County’s – have turned to fare increases and service reductions.
07.28.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed bipartisan legislation that reduces the sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine offenses.Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) said, “In the 1980s, Congress passed a drug enforcement law that focused on the particular type of substance, not the action itself. That was misguided and created a 100 to one sentencing disparity that disproportionately impacted African American communities across the country. This disparity is unjust and unjustified. I’m glad that Congress acted in a bipartisan way to fix it.”The 1986 law triggered five year minimum sentences for possession of five grams of crack cocaine and 500 grams for powder cocaine. The House-passed bill reduces that disparity, requiring a five year minimum sentence for 28 grams of crack cocaine. Last year about 1,500 people were convicted for crack cocaine possession of somewhere between five and 25 grams, and near 80 percent of those convicted are black.The legislation, which now goes to President Obama for his signature, also strengthens penalties for major offenses such as drug trafficking and targeting children.The legislation is supported by many law enforcement and civil rights organizations, including: National District Attorneys Association, National Association of Police Organizations, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the American Bar Association, NAACP and the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights.
07.28.2010	Washington, DC –Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a provision written by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) that will help ensure that the Old Soldier’s Home and the grounds around it must be used to serve our veterans.The provision is included in the bill that funds the Department of Veterans Affairs. Last year, Moore wrote the same provision, and it was signed into law.Moore has been working with the VA Secretary to see what it will take to restore these historic buildings. The Soldier’s Home is currently under consideration for National Landmark Status, and Moore supports this designation.Congresswoman Moore said, “President Lincoln chose this spot for us to care for the brave soldiers who fought in the Civil War. These buildings are part of our state’s rich history, and I am working so that they can be maintained to remain part of our legacy.”
07.27.2010	Washington, DC -- Today U.S. Congresswoman (D-Milwaukee) announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) could begin preliminary work in Milwaukee County as soon as tomorrow.Congresswoman Moore said, “Getting FEMA here as soon as possible is critical to help us recover from this disaster. I have no doubt that FEMA will immediately see that we’re hurting and that damage is severe. I implore them and state officials to complete assessments swiftly so that Federal assistance can be here as soon as possible.”Yesterday, Congresswoman Moore wrote to FEMA asking them to respond to this emergency immediately. She also – along with Senators Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl – wrote in support of the state’s expected application for disaster assistance. Specifically, FEMA will begin preliminary damage assessments that are needed for the state to formally apply for disaster assistance.“The storm came and went in hours, and I’ll keep working as long as it takes to help Milwaukee cope with the damage. And this necessary step helps get us there.”
07.27.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement after she voted against funding for the war in Afghanistan:“I am very concerned that our country is engaged in an open-ended effort in Afghanistan with now higher troop levels.“Earlier this month, I cast my vote to change course in Afghanistan. I voted to make a timeline to safely bring our troops home, and I voted to stop any surge in troop levels. Those amendments failed. I cannot support the bill before the House today because it is silent on those critical issues even as concerns about our policy in Afghanistan continue to grow.”
07.27.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement on the announcement that Wisconsin is not among the finalists for the second round of Race to the Top funding: “Education is a civil rights issue. It’s about equal opportunity – plain and simple. “We all want all of our children to have the best education possible. And in many places, we have work to do to get there. But this method tells kids in Milwaukee, Green Bay, Madison – or anywhere in our great state – that they have to wait while a kid living in another state gets a chance at a better education. “Making winners and losers out of our kids flies in the face of equal opportunity.”
07.26.2010	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore made the following statement about assistance for those suffering impacts of the recent storm damage and flooding:"Mother nature cruelly left her mark on our city. And we are suffering. "I came home on Saturday to find my basement flooded. But some homes are totally uninhabitable, and others are severely damaged to the point that could take years to repair. Less than a dozen blocks away from me are 3 houses whose foundations have already collapsed, and a number of others that are at risk of having to be torn down. These are Milwaukeeans that have lived in them for decades-- this is scary for them and they need our help. Not just them, but people in every community in our district felt the impact of this storm and the resulting flooding. And we’re all mourning the tragic loss of life of this young man from Cudahy, Kyle Prelesnik, as a result of this terrible storm." "I'm working with the Governor, elected officials, and other Members of the Wisconsin Congressional delegation to make sure that people get the help they need. The sooner the state applies for a disaster declaration, the sooner needed federal resources can help.”"The storm came and went in hours, and I'll be here working as long as it takes to help families cope with its damage."
07.22.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the House passed a long-delayed extension of unemployment benefits and sent it to President Obama to become law:“Unemployment benefits have had a long history of bipartisan support – and that’s the way it should be. Unfortunately, most Republicans have been standing in the way of helping those in need and instead talking about extending George Bush’s tax cuts for millionaires. This is about priorities, and the distinction between ours couldn’t be clearer.“Any person looking for a job today knows how hard it is. Democrats are keeping our commitment to them and working every day to create jobs and protect our fragile economic recovery.“I look forward to seeing President Obama sign this bill to provide much-needed relief to Americans struggling to get a job.”
07.21.2010	Includes Provision championed by Moore to Help Unemployed HomeownersWashington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) was on hand as President Obama signed legislation that will hold Wall Street accountable, strengthen consumer protections, and ensure that taxpayers will never again be on the hook for Wall Street’s mistakes.Moore is the only Wisconsinite on the House Financial Services Committee, which helped craft this legislation.Congresswoman Moore said, “It was made all too clear – what happens on Wall Street impacts every Main Street and every family. This reform will help prevent another crisis and help protect families’ savings.”The new law includes $1 billion, championed by Moore, to help unemployed homeowners avoid foreclosure. Qualified homeowners can get as much as $50,000 in loans to help pay their mortgage payments.Moore said, “Foreclosures played a major role in the financial crisis and further threatened the security of families who have fallen on hard times. This crucial provision does double duty – it helps keep families in their homes and helps communities by reducing foreclosures.”Key provisions of the reform include: Creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that will make the terms of loans, mortgages and credit cards transparent and fair and end abusive practices like hidden fees;Ends predatory lending practices that contributed to the subprime mortgage crises and foreclosures;Gives company shareholders a say on CEO pay and golden parachutes;Ends TARP and makes sure that big banks and Wall Street – not taxpayers – pay for their mistakes; andStrengthens oversight to protect 401ks, retirement plans and college savings.The current recession – due in large part to a lack of oversight and accountability on Wall Street – has led to the loss of 8 million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings, property values and Americans’ net worth.
07.15.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the House Committee on Education and Labor passed child nutrition reauthorization legislation that includes key provisions of a bill introduced by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) to help hungry children get nutritious breakfast.Congresswoman Moore said, “The facts are clear – hungry kids have trouble learning. A good breakfast helps students focus during the school day. I thank Chairman Miller and the committee for including this grant program.”The following are provisions championed by Moore included in the committee-passed bill:A grant program to help schools expand or start school breakfast programs.Grants are targeted to schools where the most students qualify for free or reduced priced meals.In July of last year, Moore along with Senators Herb Kohl and Russ Feingold (both D-Wis.) introduced the Student Breakfast and Education Improvement Act of 2009. Specifically, their legislation would set up a competitive grant program to help schools expand or start school breakfast programs, and priority would be given to schools where more than 75 percent of students are eligible for free or reduced-priced meals. Recent data shows that nearly 5.2 billion lunches are served through the free and reduced price school meal program, but less than 1.9 billion breakfasts were served over the same period.The legislation now goes before the full House for consideration.
07.15.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) called on the U.S. Senate to take immediate action on legislation that would extend much-needed unemployment benefits and create jobs.Congresswoman Moore said, “The House has passed sweeping jobs bills and long-term extensions of unemployment benefits – that give some support to those searching for work in this difficult climate– only for them to languish in the Senate. This delay threatens our fragile recovery and punishes people who are hurting.”Moore continued, “This is about priorities. We keep working to create jobs and help those in need. And our efforts are opposed at every turn by Republicans. They say that we should extend the Bush tax cuts for millionaires with an enormous price tag, yet they continually block unemployment extension. The distinction couldn’t be clearer.”Specifically, the following priorities of Congresswoman Moore have passed the House and are awaiting consideration in the Senate:Unemployment Extension: The House has passed long-term unemployment benefits extension multiple times this year. The Senate has only been able to pass short-term extensions and has not been able to pass any extension for months – largely due to Republican filibusters. Traditionally, these extensions pass with broad bipartisan support. Unemployment benefits have been proven to be one of the most effective ways to immediately generate economic activity. It’s estimated that every one dollar of unemployment benefits generates at least $1.61 in economic activity. Summer Jobs: The House has passed funding to expand successful summer jobs programs that provide work experience to youth and help them contribute to family budgets and learn skills needed for long-term employment. The House has passed funding for summer jobs expansion three times this year. Keeping Teachers in Classrooms: The recently-passed Emergency Supplemental bill included $10 billion – completely offset – to keep about 140,000 teachers in classrooms throughout the country to help prevent class sizes from increasing to as many as 50 kids. Larger class sizes inevitably deny children the chance at a better education.Increasing Lending to Small Businesses: In May, the House passed legislation that would make $30 billion in loans available to community banks at a five percent rate and provides incentive for banks to increase lending. The loan’s interest rate can drop to as low as one percent the more a participating bank loans to small businesses. Studies have shown that small businesses have created more than 60 percent of new jobs over the last 15 years.
07.14.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after the Export-Import Bank voted to provide loan guarantees that save jobs in Milwaukee and could allow Bucyrus to manufacture equipment for a coal plant in India:“We know that there is no better equipment than what we can make here – that’s why our workers got the job. And that’s why I have been working with the Export-Import Bank since January to help Bucyrus do this work.“This new vote is hope for many families who have been struggling through this recession. I am so glad that the Export-Import Bank reconsidered this decision.”
07.08.2010	Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) responded to State Senator Plale and State Representative Sinicki’s letter they sent her yesterday regarding identifying sources of funding to help repair and maintain the Hoan Bridge. In her letter, Moore identified a grant program as well as additional Federal resources that could help finance repairs.The full text of Congresswoman Moore’s letter follows:July 8, 2010Dear State Senator Plale and State Representative Sinicki:Thank you for your letter yesterday to find additional Federal funds to fix the Hoan Bridge. I completely agree with you that we need to fix the bridge, which is a vital connector in our communities.We can all agree that the bridge needs to be safe. It needs to be repaired. It needs to be maintained. That’s the bottom line. And I am as committed as anyone to making sure that it can safely meet the needs of our communities for years to come.You suggested that funding headed to Wisconsin to build high-speed rail be diverted and instead used to repair the bridge. That’s just not possible. If Wisconsin does not use that funding as the state requested in an application, the funding goes back to the Federal Railroad Administration and will be used to complete a high-speed rail project in another state.Members of my staff have been in contact with representatives at the Wisconsin Department of Transportation regarding a grant program that the city and state could potentially use to help fix the Hoan Bridge. Pre-applications for the TIGER II grant program are due by July 16, 2010. I have enclosed a summary and background information on those grants and the application process.Additionally, it has come to my attention, that the Federal Highway Administration has recently informed the state that it will receive more than $743 million dollars in Fiscal Year 2010. It’s my understanding that this about $100 million more than the state expected to receive. And as you know, it is up to you and other officials in Madison to decide how to direct this additional federal funding.The U.S. House of Representatives will have to consider the surface transportation reauthorization bill in the near future. I stand ready to work with you and any one else to work to include authorization for the Hoan Bridge in this bill.I appreciate your advocacy for this important bridge and the safety of the people who use it.Sincerely,Gwen MooreMember of Congress
07.02.2010	Congresswoman Also Voted to Change Direction in AfghanistanWashington, DC – Late last night the U.S. House of Representatives passed emergency funding legislation that included domestic priorities championed by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee); however, it did not include an amendment supported by Moore that would have added more funding to create jobs. The amendment would have directed funding to states and cities to help shore up public employment, like firefighters, police officers, teachers and others who communities rely on every day. The amendment was not made in order by the House Rules Committee. Moore said, “While we have seen some signs of recovery, too many people are still struggling. This amendment would have helped localities immediately hire people for critical work. I am going to keep fighting to create jobs until we have a full and robust recovery."The bill did include $10 billion – fully paid for – to keep about 140,000 teachers in classrooms throughout the country. Moore recently attended a rally in support of saving 700 teaching jobs in Milwaukee Public Schools. Congresswoman Moore said, “We know that larger class sizes deny our kids a shot at a better education. They need every qualified teacher we have. I wanted to save even more teachers’ jobs, but this funding is crucial to keep teachers in classrooms across the country.”It also included $1 billion for a proven and successful jobs program for our youth.Moore said, “Helping teens get work helps cushion family budgets and provides real-life experience and future opportunities. We need to give teens every possible chance to succeed.”Congresswoman Moore also supported amendments to the spending bill, which failed to pass, that would have changed military course in the war in Afghanistan, which is now in its 10th year.One amendment would have only allowed military funding to be used for withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan as well as stop any troop surge in Afghanistan.The second amendment would require a timetable for withdrawal from Afghanistan.
07.01.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement after the House voted 270 to 153 to extend unemployment insurance through November:“While we have seen some signs that our economy is starting to recover, far too many people are still unemployed. Our commitment to them shouldn’t end until this recession does.“And we have either passed or tried to pass long-term extensions of unemployment benefits several times only for it to meet opposition from Republicans in the House and Senate. Helping out those looking for work should not be partisan.”
06.30.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after speaking with Fred Hochberg, President of the Export-Import Bank on its decision that could save jobs in Milwaukee and could allow Bucyrus to manufacture equipment for a coal plant in India:“I’m hopeful that Bucyrus will be able to complete this work. I wrote the Export-Import Bank in support of these jobs back in January and have remained in contact with them throughout the process.“We know that there is no better equipment than what we can make here. But we also know, there will be equipment, either way. This project will go forward, and we’re working to make sure that our workers get the job.“I will continue to work with the Export-Import Bank in my capacity as a member of the House Financial Services Committee to make sure that we have explored every avenue to keep the work here.”
06.30.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today introduced legislation that would help unemployed people feed their families.While some signs of economic recovery have been seen in Wisconsin and throughout the nation, many people still have difficulty finding work. This is especially true for those who have been unemployed for many months. Many of these individuals need the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) – or food stamps – to feed their families. Before passage of the Recovery Act, unemployed individuals could only receive SNAP food stamps for up to three months. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, signed into law last year, allowed unemployed low-income individuals to receive SNAP benefits all year. Congresswoman Moore said, “Our commitment to helping people get through this recession shouldn’t end until the recession does. While our economy is showing signs of growth, many have yet to feel it personally. My bill helps ensure that those trying to make it can buy food.”Recognizing that there is still a long road ahead to a full and robust recovery, Moore’s legislation would extend the Recovery Act provision by another year.In Milwaukee County, there are just over 34,000 unemployed people who rely on food stamps to feed their families. Statewide, nearly 80,000 unemployed Wisconsinites need this help. And it is estimated that without food stamps 6 million unemployed Americans would otherwise not be able to buy food.
06.30.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), member of the House Financial Services Committee that crafted the bill, today voted for the final version of Wall Street reform legislation that will strengthen consumer protection, hold Wall Street accountable and make sure that big banks – not taxpayers – pay for their mistakes.Congresswoman Moore said, “Years of letting Wall Street and Big Banks run amok and gamble with your hard-earned money are coming to an end. This bill makes Wall Street accountable, strengthens consumer protections and ensures that taxpayers will never again be on the hook for Wall Street’s mistakes.”The bill includes $1 billion, championed by Moore, to help unemployed homeowners avoid foreclosure. Key provisions of the legislation include: Creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that will make the terms of loans, mortgages and credit cards transparent and fair and end abusive practices like hidden fees;Ends predatory lending practices that contributed to the subprime mortgage crises and foreclosures;Gives company shareholders a say on CEO pay and golden parachutes;Ends TARP and makes sure that big banks and Wall Street – not taxpayers – pay for their mistakes; andStrengthens oversight to protect 401ks, retirement plans and college savings.The current recession – due in large part to a lack of oversight and accountability on Wall Street – has led to the loss of 8 million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings, property values and Americans’ net worth.Congresswoman Moore said, “Never before has it been clearer – what happens on Wall Street can directly impact Main Street. This reform protects our small businesses. It protects families’ retirements and college savings. And it protects people have having to pay for Wall Street’s mistakes.”
06.24.2010	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) voted for the DISCLOSE Act, legislation that requires corporations that finance campaign advertisements to actually disclose that they are paying for it.Congresswoman Moore said, “People have a right to know who is spending money to influence elections. If BP, or any other company, spends money on a campaign commercial right now, they don’t have to tell you.”Key provisions of the DISCLOSE Act include:Heads of organizations and companies and top ad funders have to “stand by their ads” just like politicians do.Bans foreign-owned companies from spending in elections as well as those who receive federal funds – such as large government contractors and financial institutions receiving TARP funds.The legislation is in response to the Supreme Court decision in Citizens United vs. the FEC that overturned key campaign finance reforms. The decision removed limits on corporate spending in elections.Moore continued, “This bill doesn’t limit free speech, but it does say that we have a right know who is trying to sway our votes.”The DISCLOSE Act passed the House by a vote of 219-206 and it now goes to the Senate for consideration.
06.10.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Milwaukee seniors in Medicare who enter the prescription drug benefit plan “donut hole” this year will start receiving $250 rebate checks to help them afford prescription drugs due to recently enacted health reform.The “donut hole” is a coverage gap in which seniors with drug costs between $2,830 and $6,440 pay 100% of their drug costs while still paying their premium. Last year, 74,400 Wisconsinites spent part of the year in this coverage gap. This is the first step included in recently enacted health insurance reform to ultimately close the “donut hole” by 2020. Next year seniors in the coverage gap will receive a 50% discount on brand name prescription drugs.Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) said, “Paying 100% of prescription drug costs is a huge burden on our seniors. This will make a real difference and help them afford needed medicine.”Rebate checks will continue to be mailed throughout the year as seniors enter the coverage gap.
06.10.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House passed legislation – with Congresswoman Gwen Moore’s (D-Milwaukee) support – to reform the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to help homeowners continue to get affordable mortgage insurance.Congresswoman Moore said, “Congress created the Federal Housing Administration during the Great Depression to help prevent housing market losses from impacting other parts of the economy. The recent economic downturn greatly impacted FHA, and reforming it today is critical to rebuilding our economy.”Specifically, the legislation:Allows for higher premiums on mortgages attained with low down-payments. This will help quickly restore FHA’s capital reserve, which has fallen below the rate required by law because of the housing crisis;Enhances FHA’s authority to stop bad lending practices by allowing for termination of approval in any instance of fraud; andBetter manages risk by requiring more reporting to the public and to Congress.Additionally, these reforms will cut spending and save $2.5 billion over the next five years.The bipartisan bill – supported by the National Urban League, the National Association of Realtors, the National Council of La Raza, the Mortgage Bankers Association, the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, and the National Association of Home Builders – overwhelmingly passed the House. It now goes to the Senate for consideration.
05.28.2010	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act – legislation that extends tax incentives for businesses and helps support the unemployed and their families.The legislation includes provisions championed by Moore, including extension of summer jobs programs, the TANF emergency contingency fund, and unemployment insurance.Congresswoman Moore said, “While we have seen some better economic news recently, families in our area are still struggling. We can’t walk away from those who need help.”Specifically, the legislation includes a provision previously passed by the House to expand successful summer jobs program to help 300,000 young people across the country gain skills necessary for long-term employment.It also includes an extension of the TANF Emergency Contingency Fund, which has helped states put 180,000 low-income individuals back to work. Without an extension, many states will institute cuts to programs for low-income residents.Additionally, the bill and extends unemployment insurance through November. This will help many families make ends meet as people continue looking for jobs.Congresswoman Moore said, “We will keep working until we see a full and robust economy again. This bill helps us continue to move forward”The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration.
05.28.2010	Washington, DC – Late last night, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) voted to end the policy known as "Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell," which prohibits gays and lesbians from serving openly in the Armed Services.Congresswoman Moore said, "Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell forces men and women who are willing to die for our country to lie about who they are.? This is wrong, and it is long past time to end this misguided policy."13,500 service members have been dismissed from the military simply for being gay under "Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell" since it was instituted in 1993.?An amendment, which passed the House by a vote of 234 to 194 to the National Defense Authorization Act, repeals "Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell," after the Pentagon completes a full review on the effects of overturning the policy.? Upon completion of the report, which is expected no later than December 1st of this year, the President, the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff would have to certify that repealing the policy will not adversely impact military readiness and unit cohesion before the repeal can take effect.Moore continued, "Even Barry Goldwater got this one in the 1990’s when Congress was debating the policy.? At the time, he said ‘You don’t have to be straight to be in the military, you just have to be able to shoot straight.’"Repeal is supported by Admiral Michael Mullen, Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Generals Colin Powell and John Shalikashvili, both former Chairs of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.A vote on the National Defense Authorization Act is expected today.
05.28.2010	AmeriCorps Grants Help Communities throughout Milwaukee Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) announced $6.9 million in AmeriCorps grants for Milwaukee that will help bolster after-school programs, teacher training and housing construction. Congresswoman Moore said, “These grants help us meet President Obama’s vision that every American can serve. And if every volunteer’s experience is like mine – you’ll get more out of it, than you’ve given.”Congresswoman Moore served as a VISTA volunteer between 1981-1983, during which time she spearheaded the start-up of a community credit union in Milwaukee and earned the national “VISTA Volunteer of the Decade” award from 1976-1986. VISTA is now part of AmeriCorps.The grants announced today are:The YMCA of Metro Milwaukee: $217,600 to support 22 AmeriCorps members to provide structured after-school activities for youth between 3:00-7:00pm when adult supervision may be absent. Last year the YMCA served 5,230 youth.The Mount Mary College Urban Education Fellows Program: $43,200 for 54 AmeriCorps members who will serve as teachers and mentors in grades K-12, working to increase educational achievement and volunteer recruitment at high poverty, urban schools in Wisconsin. The Milwaukee Teacher Education Center: $140,000 to support 175 AmeriCorps members who will introduce and strengthen service-learning projects in the Milwaukee Public Schools System. Service-learning is a teaching method that combines academic instruction with community service. Milwaukee Christian Center’s YouthBuild: $169,650 to support 25 AmeriCorps members who will build and rehabilitate low-income housing; restore hiking trails along the banks of the Kinnikinnick River, and get training to assist in disaster recovery.Public Allies: Two grants for $6,331,000 will support 487 AmeriCorps members across the country, and the second for $62,500 will support 25 members to be front-line human service field workers. Public Allies is a national AmeriCorps program based in Milwaukee that places diverse youth, ages 18-30, as AmeriCorps members in community and faith-based organizations where they serve four days each week for ten months on projects that create, improve, or expand services with measurable results.Congresswoman Moore continued, “My volunteer experience changed my life and put me on the path to a lifetime of public service.”
05.28.2010	Included in House-Passed Bill to Spur Innovation and Create JobsWashington, DC – Today, a provision written by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) that added the Great Lakes in a research program to study the effects of climate change passed the House as part of the America Competes Act.On her provision, Congresswoman Moore said, “It’s common sense – if we’re going to be looking at the effects of climate change on our oceans, we should look at the Great Lakes too. The environmental health of Lake Michigan is critical to our region’s economy. From shipping to tourism to manufacturing to fishing, jobs rely on a healthy Lake Michigan.”The overall legislation reauthorizes research programs and improves science and math education to spur innovation, create jobs and bolster America’s scientific and economic leadership.Congresswoman Moore said, “In order to lead in the 21st century global economy, we must refocus and redouble our efforts. If we make the right, smart investments today, they will pay out in spades. I’m not about to sit by and watch other countries build new technologies that we’d be left with no option but to buy from them. This bill moves America forward and helps keep us as the world’s innovation leader.”Specifically, the legislation will:Authorize increased funding for science research;Help provide loan guarantees to small and mid-sized manufacturers to help them expand and create jobs;Reauthorize the Advanced Energy Research Projects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E) to develop energy technology here in America; andImprove science and math education including increasing participation by women and minorities.The bill now goes to the Senate for consideration.
05.27.2010	Washington, DC – Today the House of Representatives passed a resolution offered by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) to officially recognize Marquette University as the first Catholic university to have coeducational regular undergraduate programs.In 1909, Marquette admitted women and educated them alongside of men, and this academic year, 2009-2010 marks 100 years of co-education at Marquette. Moore, who serves as the Vice Chair of the Congressional Caucus on Women’s Issues, introduced the resolution in March to help mark Women’s History Month.Moore, an alumna of Marquette said, “Marquette saw – before every other Catholic university – that expanding opportunities and access for women benefits our entire society. I’m honored to recognize my alma mater in this way.”
05.19.2010	(Washington, DC) -- Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) backed legislation that passed the House Financial Services Committee to help community banks increase lending to small businesses to help create jobs and foster economic growth.Congresswoman Moore, a cosponsor of the legislation and member of the House Financial Services Committee said, “Wall Street and big banks caused this crisis, but Main Street has continued paying the price. This bill helps community banks and small businesses that have been struggling in this recession.”Specifically, the legislation will increase capital at community banks to spur small business lending. The bill would make $30 billion in loans available to community banks at a five percent rate and provides incentive for banks to increase lending. The loan’s interest rate can drop to as low as one percent the more a participating bank loans to small businesses. Many small businesses have indicated that the lack of access to credit is a major impediment to growth.Moore continued, “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and have created more than half of our nation’s new jobs over the past 15 years. This bill will help small businesses that are ready to grow and create jobs, but have been held back because of limited access to credit.”The bill is expected to come before the full House in the coming weeks.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
05.14.2010	(Milwaukee, Wis.)— This morning, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk met with Wisconsin’s major exporters to discuss barriers to increasing exports.Congresswoman Moore said, “It’s easy math. If we increase exports, we increase jobs.”Last year, Wisconsin exported $16.7 billion worth of goods, and nearly 200,000 jobs throughout the state rely on exports.Representatives from the World Trade Center of Wisconsin and major exporters in Wisconsin including Harley-Davidson, Johnson Controls, Oshkosh Corporation attended the meeting held at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.Ambassador Kirk discussed the Obama Administration’s goal to double U.S. exports. Moore held the meeting to foster a conversation between the companies and the Trade Representative on what is working well and what can be done better.Moore continued, “The economic benefit to our state is huge if we increase our exports. Today’s meeting is a step to do just that.”###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
05.12.2010	(Washington, DC)— Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment written by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) to include the Great Lakes in research on the effects of climate change.Her amendment was to the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act, which reauthorizes research programs to spur innovation and strengthen America’s scientific and economic leadership. Moore’s amendment includes the Great Lakes in a research program to study the effects of climate change and increased greenhouse gas emissions.Congresswoman Moore said, “My amendment is simple common sense – if we’re going to be looking at the effects of climate change on our oceans, we should look at the Great Lakes too. The environmental health of Lake Michigan is critical to our region’s economy. From shipping to tourism to manufacturing to fishing, jobs rely on a healthy Lake Michigan.”The overall legislation is currently pending before the House. A final vote is expected tomorrow.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
05.06.2010	(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today lauded House passage of the Home Star Energy Retrofit Act, legislation that authorizes $6.6 billion in rebates for energy efficiency upgrades.If fully funded, the legislation is estimated to create 168,000 construction and manufacturing jobs and save about 3 million American families as much as $500 a year on their energy bills.Congresswoman Moore said, “The recession has devastated construction and manufacturing and tightened family budgets. This bill is a win-win. It’ll help create jobs to make homes more energy efficient and save families money on energy bills.”The House-passed legislation authorizes two types of rebates and incentives for energy efficiency upgrades and renovations.One provides up-front rebates for specific renovations, including insulation, windows and doors, and water heaters at the time of purchase. This credit is worth up to $1,500 per improvement capped at $3,000 or 50 percent of the total project cost. The other rewards the implementation of measures to reduce energy use following recommendations of an energy audit. Consumers can receive $3,000 for energy savings of 20 percent with an additional $1,000 for every additional five percent energy savings. This rebate is capped at $8,000 or 50 percent of the project cost.The bipartisan legislation is supported by industry, labor, environmental and consumer groups. It is supported by the National Association of Manufacturers, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Home Builders, Laborers’ International Union of North America, Natural Resources Defense Council and many others. The bill passed the House by a vote of 246 to 161 and now goes to the Senate for consideration.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
05.05.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement after U.S. Congressman Dave Obey (D-Wausau) announced he will retire from Congress after serving since 1969:“History will show Congressman Obey as one of the best public servants Wisconsin has ever seen, and indeed, that our nation has ever seen.“His record of service is long and distinguished. He has stood on the right side of history. He has tirelessly fought for the little guy. His work has helped our families, our children and our workers. And Wisconsin and our nation are better off because of his service.“I am proud to have called him a colleague, and he will be missed.”
04.28.2010	(Washington, DC)— Today Wisconsin Senators Russ Feingold and Herb Kohl, Congressman Dave Obey and Congresswoman Gwen Moore sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) asking the VA to open an additional Vet Center in north central Wisconsin and to either add additional counselors or open a new center in Milwaukee.Veterans in both areas face access challenges; tens of thousands of veterans in north central Wisconsin cannot obtain counseling at a community counseling office, or Vet Center, because there is no facility nearby. And veterans in the Milwaukee area have a difficult time obtaining services due to the large number of veterans in the area. “While we have recently made progress in establishing a new Vet Center in Brown County and another, opening soon, in La Crosse, there are still tens of thousands of Wisconsin veterans who do not have access to the critical services and support these Vet Centers provide,” Feingold said. “As service members return from Iraq and Afghanistan, post-traumatic stress disorder remains at an alarming rate, and we must ensure every veteran has access to excellent care no matter where in Wisconsin they live. The VA should take into consideration the disproportionately low number of Vet Centers we have compared to other states and quickly approve more centers in Wisconsin.” “For veterans who live in Wisconsin’s north central region, seeing a specialist can mean hours in the car and expensive trips across the state. That’s a fundamental disservice to the men and women who have sacrificed for this country. There is a demonstrated need for a new Vet Center in northern Wisconsin and additional counselors at the Milwaukee Vet Center to allow them access to the health services they earned,” Kohl said.Congressman Obey said, “There are tens of thousands of vets in North Central Wisconsin who can’t regularly see a counselor at a Vet Center because there isn’t a center anywhere near them. These veterans stepped up to serve their country. Each and every one of them should be able to access the services we owe them, no questions asked.” Congresswoman Moore said, “There just aren’t enough counselors and Vet Centers to help every Wisconsin veteran who needs it. If the VA added counselors and more Vet Centers in Wisconsin, we’d go a long way to ensuring our vets get the help they deserve.”Vet Centers provide counseling to veterans in non-clinical settings that can be more welcoming to veterans and complement the services provided by the VA medical centers and outpatient clinics. They are critical to helping service members deal with issues like post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health and readjustment issues. Wisconsin has a disproportionately low number of Vet Centers compared to other states like West Virginia or Hawaii that have a smaller veteran population than Wisconsin, but have nine and seven Vet Centers respectively compared to Wisconsin’s four.The text of their letter follows:April 28, 2010Dr. Alfonso BatresChief Readjustment Counseling Officer,Veterans Health AdministrationU.S. Department of Veteran AffairsDear Dr. Batres,We write to thank you for your efforts to expand the number of Vet Centers in Wisconsin. The decision to open two new centers in Wisconsin has extended coverage to significantly more veterans. We now urge you to examine the need for an additional center in the north central region and additional counselors or a new center in Milwaukee to ensure that there is adequate coverage throughout the state.As demonstrated in the attached map, a significant number of veterans in north central Wisconsin cannot obtain regular counseling through a Vet Center due to the distance to the nearest center. While we have excellent clinics in Wisconsin that provide exemplary care for physical conditions, we continue to hear concerns among veterans that the clinics focus on providing medication for mental health concerns and do not always have adequate staff to provide counseling. Similarly, mobile units cannot provide veterans consistent, regular counseling. As the Vet Centers specialize in providing counseling, we would appreciate it if you would take into consideration the need for a Vet Center in this underserved region.While we are grateful to the VA for deciding to create new Vet Centers in Wisconsin, the state still has a disproportionately low number of Vet Centers compared to other states. For example, West Virginia and Hawaii both have a much smaller veteran population than Wisconsin’s and a significantly smaller land area; however these states will have nine and seven Vet Centers respectively by the end of the year, compared to Wisconsin’s four. We urge you to address this inequity when you consider the placement of new centers.We have also heard from veterans that they would like to see additional counseling offered in and around Milwaukee. Based on feedback we have received from veterans in the area, there appears to be a need for additional counselors at the Milwaukee Vet Center or another Vet Center in Milwaukee. We urge you to consider both of options.We also understand that Vet Centers send counselors to surrounding areas to provide counseling on a rotational basis. We strongly support this approach.We would appreciate it if you could provide information on the number of veterans who have received mental health care at Wisconsin Vet Centers, the number of counselors available, funding levels for Wisconsin Vet Centers and the VA policy on the appropriate caseload per counselor. If you do not find that a full center is justified in either of these areas, we would ask that you consider an outstation and explain why a full center is not needed. As you know, we are strong supporters of your work in the Readjustment Counseling Program and the excellent care provided by the Vet Centers. These centers are becoming increasingly important as more service members return from Iraq and Afghanistan with alarming rates of post-traumatic stress disorder. We appreciate your prompt response to this inquiry. Please contact us if we can be of assistance in supporting the Readjustment Counseling Program.Sincerely,Senator Russ FeingoldSenator Herb KohlCongressman David ObeyCongresswoman Gwen Moore###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
04.28.2010	Measure Requires Department of Defense to Assess Small Business Participation in Contracting(Washington, DC) – Today, the House passed an amendment written by U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) to require the Department of Defense (DOD) to assess small business access to contracts in its annual acquisition review.Congresswoman Moore said, “Small business growth is essential to our country’s economic growth, and many have trouble securing defense contracts even though they have what it takes to do the job sometimes even at savings to taxpayers. My amendment helps give small businesses a better shot at these contracts.” Moore’s amendment is part of the IMPROVE Acquisition Act of 2010, legislation to streamline and improve DOD’s acquisitions process. Reforms in the legislation are expected to save taxpayers an estimated $27 billion a year.The overall bill sets up an annual assessment of the department’s acquisition process, including its contractors. Specifically, Moore’s amendment requires that DOD measure contractors’ use of small businesses, including those owned and operated by veterans, women and socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.Moore continued, “Requiring the Defense Department to review small business participation in its contracts every year will show us what is working and help us fix what isn’t.”The bill overwhelmingly passed the House and now goes to the Senate for consideration.
04.22.2010	(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement today on the 40th anniversary of Earth Day:“Forty years ago, Wisconsin Senator Gaylord Nelson started a grass-roots movement to hold elected officials accountable as stewards of our environment. And the movement and his legacy continue today.“Lake Michigan is our greatest resource. It is critical to our economy. It is part of our city’s identity. Earth Day reminds us that it is our responsibility to preserve and protect it for future generations.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
04.21.2010	Bill Improves Care and Support for Women Vets and Families and Expands Mental Health Care(Washington, DC) -- U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today lauded unanimous House passage of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act, legislation that will improve veterans’ health care for women, strengthen support services for veterans’ families and expand access to mental health care services.Congresswoman Moore said, “This bill will help the VA adapt to the unique needs of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. It will make a real difference for them and their families.”The bill will improve care for 1.8 million female veterans. Specifically, it will help train mental health care providers to care for veterans who have been sexually abused and create a pilot program to provide child care services to women who could not otherwise access mental health care services. Additionally, it requires a study of barriers to care that women veterans currently face.This bill also recognizes that veterans’ caregivers and families play an integral role in their care. It will help caregivers by making sure they can get needed training and education, access counseling and help them afford care of their loved ones – including stipends for health care services and to defray costs of traveling to doctor’s visits. Congresswoman Moore has introduced a separate measure that calls on the military and VA to allow family members of those suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder to access treatments and integrate families into treatments.Lastly, the bill increases access to mental health care services for any veteran – including National Guard and Reserve members – of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.Congresswoman Moore continued, “Our veterans risked their lives in service to our nation, and we owe it to them to see that they have the care they need. I am glad to see that the House could come together and pass this important bill.”The legislation is supported by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, Disabled American Veterans, AMVETS and Paralyzed Veterans of America.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
04.20.2010	(Washington, DC) -- U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today introduced legislation that would give states flexibility to meet Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) work requirements for people with disabilities.Current law requires TANF recipients to participate in a narrow set of work-related activities for a certain number of hours per week, and states are required to modify those requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). However, Federal TANF work requirements do not change in light of ADA modifications. This makes it difficult for states to meet work requirements and potentially puts Federal TANF funding at risk. Additionally, current law can create pressure on states that could ultimately lead to people with disabilities losing work opportunities.Congresswoman Moore said, “States are required to change work requirements for people with disabilities, but TANF participation standards under current law are blind to these changes. My bill would fix this and give states much needed flexibility to modify participation standards for people with disabilities. It would lift pressure off states and make it easier to provide job training and work opportunities to people with disabilities.”Moore’s bill would make it easier for states to meet TANF participation requirements and be ADA compliant by allowing them to: Modify TANF work requirements for people with disabilities and count participation based on meeting those modified requirements.Temporarily waive work requirements for people with severe disabilities.Additionally, her bill would require participating states to report yearly to the Department of Health and Human Services on their modified plans, and in turn, HHS would provide a summary of state actions to Congress.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
04.14.2010	(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) introduced legislation that would apply standard Department of Transportation (DOT) contracting goals for minority-owned and operated small businesses to future high-speed rail construction projects.Congresswoman Moore said, “Minority-owned small businesses have been hit particularly hard during this recession. My bill ensures that a portion of high-speed rail funding would go to qualified small businesses owned and run by women, African-Americans and other minorities. It simply holds high-speed rail funding to the same standards as highway, transit and aviation construction projects.”The DOT’s Disadvantaged Business Enterprise program helps give small businesses owned and operated by economically and socially disadvantaged individuals a better chance to work on federally-funded transportation projects. Since 1998, DOT has been required to direct at least 10 percent of total funding for highways, highway safety, public transportation and aviation construction to such small businesses.Moore’s bill would apply the same 10 percent standard to high-speed rail funding to help create an unbiased contracting process for small businesses owned and operated by women, African-Americans, Native-Americans, Latino-Americans, Asian-Americans among others.Moore said, “Small businesses are key to economic growth and development, and especially right now, they need every opportunity they can get.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
04.01.2010	(Milwaukee, Wis.)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today asked for accountability and updates on efforts to improve Milwaukee County’s Mental Health Complex after reports of patient sexual abuse.She wrote to Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and Disability Rights Wisconsin.In every letter, she wrote, “…it is unconscionable that some of our most distressed and vulnerable citizens potentially face abuse when they are seeking help.”The Mental Health Complex could stand to lose $60 million – or one-third its annual budget – if it does not act to adequately ensure patient safety. Moore requested an update from Walker on steps the county is taking to implement its corrective action plan.In her letter to Milwaukee County Executive Scott Walker, she encouraged him “to speak out against these abuses” and detail to her and “the community exactly where the system failed.” She also wrote, “…families and patients deserve accountability. It seems they have yet to receive it.”Full text of Moore’s letter to WalkerShe requested an assessment of the county’s progress implementing corrective measures from CMS. She wrote, “…we must ensure that proper steps are being taken to ensure patient safety and prevent abuse.” CMS could withhold crucial federal funding that keeps the county’s Mental Health Complex working if they believe the county has not made necessary improvements.Full text of Moore’s letter to CMSMoore also offered her assistance to Disability Rights Wisconsin, which has begun an investigation into the abuse allegations at the complex.Full text of Moore’s letter to Disability Rights Wisconsin ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.26.2010	(Washington, DC) -- U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today announced that she is taking submissions from young artists in Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District for the National Congressional Art Competition.Congresswoman Moore said, “Our area is home to so many young and talented artists. I am honored to recognize that through this competition.” The competition is open to high school students and junior high students where 7th through 12th grades are housed in the same building.The winner will be invited to Washington, DC to meet Congresswoman Moore and their artwork will be displayed on Capitol Hill alongside artwork from Congressional Districts across the country.Important deadlines: April 13, 2010 – release form must be completed and submittedApril 16, 2010 – entries must be deliveredArtwork categories include:Paintings (oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc);Drawings (pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers, etc.);CollagePrints (lithographs, silkscreen, block prints);Mixed media;Computer generated art; andPhotography.Submission guidelines:Artwork must be two-dimensional;The maximum dimension for artwork (including frame) is 30” high by 30” wide by 4” deep;Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds;Each entry must be original concept, design and execution and must not be in violation of copyright laws; andStudents must reside in Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional DistrictHow to enter:Complete release form and submit by April 13, 2010; andDeliver entries to Congresswoman Moore’s Milwaukee office by April 16, 2010. Congresswoman Moore’s office is located at:219 North Milwaukee Street, Suite 3AMilwaukee, Wisconsin 53202###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.25.2010	(Washington, DC) - U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement after the House passed and sent to the President improvements to historic health insurance reform legislation that was signed into law on Tuesday:“Tonight’s vote ends more than a year of work to deliver historic reform.“Families will see benefits right away. Small businesses will get help to afford insurance for their employees. Seniors will get help to afford medicine. And we take care of children – insurance companies can no longer deny them based on pre-existing conditions and they can stay on their parents’ insurance until they turn 26.“Tonight’s improvements are just the first. We will have many more opportunities to fine tune this bill as it goes into effect.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.24.2010	Bill Also Helps Small Businesses Access Credit(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded just-passed legislation that helps 300,000 more youth get summer jobs.Congresswoman Moore said, “This recession has impacted everyone, and often family members are pulling together to help make ends meet. Helping teens get work helps cushion family budgets and provides real-life experience and future opportunities. We need to give teens every possible chance to succeed.”Recent data shows that one in four teenagers 16-19 looking for a job cannot find one and the same applies to more than 40 percent of African American teens. Funding will go to local Workforce Investment Boards to expand successful summer jobs programs.The bill also extends a small business lending program that since it was created has supported nearly $23 billion in small business lending that has created.Moore continued, “Helping small businesses thrive and grow is essential to getting our economy back on track. Extending this successful lending program helps ensure just that.”The House passed the Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act by a vote of 239 to 175, and it now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.24.2010	Introduce Bill to Strengthen Family Violence Option(Washington, DC)— U.S. Representatives Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee), Vice Chair of the Congressional Women’s Caucus, and Pete Stark (D-CA), Senior Member of the House Ways and Means Income Security and Family Support Subcommittee, today introduced legislation that would guarantee protections under the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program for victims of domestic violence.TANF, the nation's income support program for poor families, expires this year, and Congress is working on legislation to reauthorize and update the program.Congresswoman Moore said, “Women aren’t getting the help they need and are being forced back into abusive environments. By setting standards and strengthening enforcement, we will help ensure that any woman – no matter her place in life – can escape abuse.”Congressman Stark said, “The TANF program needs to be fixed. Many of our most vulnerable neighbors, especially victims of domestic violence and their children, are not being helped by the program. This bill guarantees help for victims of domestic violence, and is a good step to take as we consider broader reforms of the program."The Family Violence Option (FVO) in TANF is designed to help women escape domestic violence by offering exemptions to specific TANF requirements that can adversely affect victims and their children. Under current law, states can choose whether or not to offer benefits under the FVO. This bill would prevent states from leaving the program, and establish and enforce standards so that victims are properly screened and referred to crucial services.The bill streamlines the application process making it easier and faster for women to get help and requires that women promptly be informed of eligibility requirements.Additionally, the measure expands eligibility for services by offering similar help to victims of sexual violence. These victims would now be eligible for counseling and support services including, support groups, legal and court advocacy, and shelter placement.Finally, the bill also requires the Department of Health and Human Services to study state efforts and report back to Congress on what is working and what is not. This information will help identify holes in the safety net and provide better services to victims of domestic and sexual violence.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.23.2010	(Washington, DC)— Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) was at the White House as President Barack Obama signed historic health insurance reform legislation that gives families more control and more choices over their health care and reduces the deficit and made the following statement:“This is a truly historic day. I remember being 12 years old and my parents talking about the promise of universal health care.“President Obama and Congress were able to accomplish what had evaded our nation for a century after President Teddy Roosevelt said that every American deserves health care.“As insurance reforms go into effect, families will see immediate benefits. Children can no longer be denied coverage because of pre-existing conditions. Families can keep children on their insurance until their 26th birthdays, saving great cost from pricey supplemental insurance plans. Many seniors will get help for prescription drug costs, and small businesses will receive tax credits to help afford insurance for their employees.“This bill isn’t perfect. In fact, we already passed changes that will insure more people, help more families and small businesses afford coverage, and slash the deficit even more. These changes are currently being considered in the Senate. Over time, we will have many more opportunities to tweak it and to improve it.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.21.2010	House-Passed Bill Will Insure 32 Million Americans(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today voted for legislation that gives families more choices and control over their health care decisions, extends health care coverage to 32 million uninsured Americans and reduces the deficit.Congresswoman Moore said, “Today’s vote caps off more than a year of debate and makes good on our promise to deliver health insurance reform for the American people.”“Every day people are denied coverage or kicked off insurance. This means life and death; this means bankruptcy; this means higher costs for everyone. This bill changes that,” Moore continued.She concluded, “The reforms in this bill give families moruse.gov/enee choices and more control over their health care. And it completes a goal that has evaded us since President Teddy Roosevelt said that every person deserves health care.”By a vote of 220-211, the House today passed changes to legislation that passed the Senate on December 24, 2009. The bill now goes to the Senate, and it can pass with a simple majority vote.Highlights of the legislation include:Extends health insurance coverage to 32 million Americans and helps people afford it;Reduces the Deficit by $143 billion the first decade and by $1.2 trillion the second ten years;Helps small businesses afford health insurance for their employees;Stops insurance companies from denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions and dropping people’s coverage all together when they get too sick;Improves Medicare for seniors by closing the prescription drug benefit donut-hole and expanding preventative services; andEliminates fraud and abuse in Medicare.Many of these benefits go into effect right away or shortly after the bill passes. Other immediate benefits can be seen here.The House Energy and Commerce Committee estimated benefits for Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District, which Moore represents. Those benefits include:Helps 12,300 small businesses cover the costs of insuring their employees;Improves Medicare for 87,000 seniors;Covers 52,500 uninsured people;Allows 11,900 people – including children – with pre-existing conditions get affordable health care; andCovers 59,000 young adults on their parents’ insurance until their 26th birthdays.More benefits for Wisconsin’s 4th Congressional District can be found here.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.12.2010	(Washington, DC)— Washington, DC – To help mark women’s history month, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) introduced a resolution to officially recognize Marquette University as the first Catholic university to have coeducational regular undergraduate programs.In 1909, Marquette admitted women and educated them alongside of men, and this academic year, 2009-2010 marks 100 years of co-education at Marquette.Moore, an alumna of Marquette said, “I am so proud that my alma mater – and Milwaukee – were on the frontlines of change and recognized before so many others that to grow and move forward as a society, we couldn’t leave half of our population behind. I’m honored to recognize Marquette in this way.”“Marquette’s pioneering decision in 1909 to admit women alongside men is something of which our entire university community is incredibly proud,” said Marquette University President Rev. Robert A. Wild, S.J. “Recognizing this milestone gave us the opportunity to celebrate the past, but also to draw attention to the continued importance of access to quality education at all levels.”The full text of Congresswoman Moore’s resolution follows: Honoring the Centennial Celebration of Women at MarquetteUniversity, the first Catholic university in the world tooffer co-education as part of its regular undergraduate program.Whereas Marquette University was founded in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in 1881 as a Catholic, Jesuit educational institution;Whereas Marquette University was created to educate first-generation and low-income students under the premise that all people should be able to pursue higher education;Whereas Marquette University was the first Catholic university in the world to admit women to be educated alongside men in its regular undergraduate programs in 1909;Whereas because of the courageous vision of its then-president, the Rev. James McCabe, S.J. Marquette University pioneered the inclusion of women;Whereas today, 53 percent of Marquette University students, 7 of the 33 members of the board of trustees, and 12 of the 27 members of the university leadership council are women;Whereas Marquette University is celebrating the 100th anniversary of the admission of women during the 2009-2010 academic year through an alumnae memory project, guest speakers and lectures, commemorative publications, and faculty, staff, student, and alumni events;Whereas Marquette University continued to expand access to education in 1969 by creation of the Educational Opportunity Program, which enables low-income and first-generation students to enter and succeed in higher education;Whereas Marquette University is celebrating the 40th anniversary of the Educational Opportunity Program, which now serves more than 500 high school and college students annually through 4 Federally funded TRIO programs;Whereas the Educational Opportunity Program continues Marquette University's tradition of serving as a model of success for more than 1,200 colleges and universities with Federally funded TRIO programs;Whereas Marquette University's continued focus on its 4 core values of excellence, faith, leadership, and service challenges students to integrate knowledge, faith, and real-life choices in ways that will shape their lives and those of others in order to better society;Whereas Marquette University recognizes and cherishes the dignity of each individual regardless of age, culture, faith, ethnicity, race, gender, sexual orientation, language, disability, or social class; andWhereas Marquette University continues to adhere to its tenet of asking who has yet to gain access to higher education and who needs support in succeeding once through the door: Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives honors the Centennial Celebration of Women at Marquette University and commends the largest independent institution in Wisconsin for continuing to fulfill its Catholic, Jesuit mission of offering premier higher educational opportunities to all students who have a desire to learn.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.10.2010	House Set to Debate Debt Relief to Aid Earthquake Recovery(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) was at the White House today when President Barack Obama and Haitian President Rene Preval discussed recovery efforts in Haiti.The Rose Garden event came on the same day the House is expected to begin debate on a bill to provide debt relief to Haiti to help aid recovery. The bill, which began in the Financial Services International Monetary Policy Subcommittee on which Moore serves, urges the Treasury Department to work with multilateral development institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund and the Inter-American Development Bank to immediately forgive Haiti’s debts. Haiti owes $828 million to such organizations.Congresswoman Moore said, “I saw firsthand the total devastation in Haiti. It will take a robust, coordinated, international effort to help the Haitian people recover and rebuild. I am glad to be with President Obama and President Preval to show that the U.S. is committed to doing our part.”After a one-day trip to Haiti last month, Moore has been a leader of House efforts to help the Haitian people in their recovery. As a member of the House Financial Services Committee, Moore supported this bill in committee and worked with other committee members to build support. Just yesterday, Moore and Congresswomen Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Carolyn Maloney (D-NY) sent a letter to all of their House colleagues urging support for the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act.According to the United States Agency for International Development, the January 12th earthquake centered near the Haitian capital of Port-Au-Prince killed 230,000 people and left 1.3 million without shelter.Moore continued, “This is a humanitarian crisis of epic proportions. By helping forgive Haiti’s debt, we will allow the Haitian government to focus on needed humanitarian efforts, including those targeted to curb the great risk of malaria, hepatitis and typhoid fever.”Moore will meet with President Preval at a bipartisan meeting on Capitol Hill today. President Preval will also meet with the Congressional Black Caucus, of which Moore is a member. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.04.2010	(Washington, DC)— United States Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement after her vote against a $15 billion bill that would give tax credits to businesses for new employees in an attempt to spur hiring:“I’ve talked with employers and small business owners in Milwaukee, and they resoundingly told me that the tax credits in this bill will not help them hire new people. What they need are customers – customers with money to spend. And customers need jobs.“Job creating legislation needs to be targeted to areas with persistent unemployment like we have in Milwaukee, and I’ve been advocating to make sure that we focus on the areas that need it most. This bill does exactly the opposite.“I am working with my colleagues to make sure that no one forgets about the folks in communities where unemployment is more than double the national average.“A jobs bill needs to actually create jobs.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.04.2010	$135,000 Awarded Today of Total $675,000 to Help Improve Water Quality, Spur Economic Growth(Washington, DC) -- U.S. Senator Herb Kohl and Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today lauded $135,000 in National Science Foundation (NSF) grants headed to Milwaukee for University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) and MarquetteUniversity to establish a water technology center that will help further Milwaukee’s work to become a leader in water research and related industries.A total of $675,000 is expected to be award to the two institutions over the next five years. UWM will receive $400,000, $80,000 of which was awarded today, and Marquette will receive $275,000, $55,000 of which was awarded today. “Milwaukeeis perfectly suited for the Water Equipment and Policy Industry/University Cooperative Research Center. The city is home to the UWM Great Lakes Water Institute and by establishing this research center, UWM will be able to more effectively collaborate its shared water related strengths with Marquette Universityand ultimately produce stronger research results,” Kohl said.Congresswoman Moore said,“Milwaukeeknows water. I am thrilled that this funding will help us build on what we know so well. These grants are recognition of our hard work to help make Milwaukeethe hub of water research.”"I believe that the NSF grant is another indication that Milwaukeeis becoming recognized as an international leader in advanced water technology. The grant also demonstrates the unprecedented success that can be obtained through strategic partnerships between our regional universities, industries, and government agencies and by taking advantages of our regions natural resources," said Michael Lovell, Dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Science at UWM.Southeastern Wisconsin is home to over more than 120 water-related businesses and five of the largest 11 water technology companies have significant presence in the area. UWM is home to the Great Lakes Water Institute, which is the largest research center of its kind on the Great Lakes. UWM and Marquette are collaborating to create a new water technology center that will help boost economic growth and development by studying water equipment, policy and technology. This will not only improve water quality, but it will also advance understanding of water technologies and help water equipment manufacturers increase competitiveness by adopting new technologies.Last year, Senator Kohl sent a letter to the National Science Foundation supporting this grant application and secured $550,000 in federal funding to support other aspects of this partnership as part of the Great Lakes WATER Institute.Additionally, the institutions will work with the Society of Women Engineers and the National Society of Black Engineers to attract and hire underrepresented, qualified students to work on these projects.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
03.04.2010	(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement after Wisconsin’s application for Race to the Top funding was taken out of the first round:“Race to the Top funding would have helped the schools most in need, but instead it took what should’ve been guaranteed and created winners and losers. Kids in Milwaukee shouldn’t have to compete against kids in Chicago or anywhere else to receive the best possible education. “Education is about equality – equality of opportunity. President Lyndon Johnson saw education as a civil rights issue. And the second we make our kids compete against each other, we move away from that view. That is a shame.“It should be clear to all of us that Wisconsin did not lose because MPS is not under mayoral control. Education Secretary Arne Duncan has repeatedly told me that mayoral control is not necessary to receive Race to the Top funding.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.26.2010	Bill Would Make Recently-Married Milwaukee Nurse and Others like Her Eligible(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today introduced legislation to correct an unfair loophole in the repeat homebuyer tax-credit that was brought to her attention after a recently-married Milwaukee nurse found she was ineligible for the tax credit despite having lived in her north Milwaukee home for 11 years, more than twice the 5 years required by statute.Congresswoman Moore said, “Our government shouldn’t be in the business of penalizing people for getting married – especially in the homebuyer tax credit. It is common that after getting married, people buy homes.”Moore was contacted by a constituent, Tonya Rutherford, who was looking to take advantage of the tax credit that was extended to repeat homebuyers for the first time in November. She quickly found out she was ineligible for the tax credit because her new husband did not also own and live in her home. To qualify for the credit under current law, both spouses must have owned and used the same previous principal residence for five consecutive years. The way it is written unfairly excludes newly married couples and even couples who have been married many years but live separately. To fix this, Moore’s legislation would simply change the law so that only one spouse has to meet the tax-credit’s residency and occupancy requirements and qualify for a $3,250 credit, the maximum individual amount.Just today, the National Association of Realtors announced that existing home sales dropped nationally this month. Moore continued, “My bill will help move home sales in the right direction by letting more people just like Tonya take advantage of this tax credit.” Individuals and couples must buy a home by the end of April to qualify for the credit and can file an addendum to their 2010 taxes through the end of the year to receive it.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.24.2010	House Votes 406-19 to End Long-Standing Exemption from Anti-Trust Laws(Washington, DC) -- U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today voted to lower health insurance premiums for families by ending health insurance companies’ long-standing exemption from anti-trust laws.Congresswoman Moore said, “We stand with families who have seen their health insurance premiums go up again and again. By making health insurers play by the same rules as everyone else we will increase competition – which will lead to lower costs, better quality and more choices for consumers.”Health insurance companies have been exempt from anti-trust laws since 1945. This blanket exemption shields these companies from legal accountability for anti-competitive practices such as price fixing, collusion, and sabotage in order to gain a monopoly.According to the American Medical Association, the health insurance markets in 24 out of 43 states included in a recent study are dominated by two insurance companies that control more than 70 percent of the market. This is a jump from last year’s report where this was the case in 18 out of 42 states. Congresswoman Moore continued, “The facts are clear. Competition barely exists in some markets. Our families deserve better and this moves us in the right direction.”This action comes on recent news of an insurance company in California proposing to raise individual premiums by 39 percent. The Center for American Progress (CAP) today noted that this is not an isolated example and that WellPoint, a national health insurance company, could be raising premiums by double digits in at least 11 states, including Wisconsin. CAP reports that some Wisconsinites with health insurance from WellPoint subsidiaries could see rate increases of over 17 percent.The House passed the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act by a vote of 406-19, and it now goes to the Senate for consideration.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.23.2010	Education Secretary will come before Congresswoman at Committee Hearing Thursday(Washington, DC)— Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) wrote to Education Secretary Arne Duncan expressing concern that freezing funding for the nation’s most disadvantaged schools and students could negatively impact First Lady Michelle Obama’s new initiative to fight childhood obesity by forcing schools to cut physical education. The full text of Congresswoman Moore’s letter follows:February 23, 2010The Honorable Arne DuncanSecretary of EducationU.S. Department of Education400 Maryland Avenue, SWWashington, D.C. 20202Dear Secretary Duncan: I commend First Lady Michelle Obama for acting to address childhood obesity, and I am glad you are working with her on this new initiative.The First Lady is right, this problem is solvable. In Congress, we have expanded access to nutritious foods including fruits and vegetables in schools, and I have worked to give children a third full meal instead of a snack. This not only helps fight hunger, but it also helps kids start on the path to making healthy eating choices for a lifetime.I stand ready to work with you and the First Lady to make sure we stem this epidemic and give our kids a healthy start to life. The Centers for Disease Control recommends high-quality physical education and increasing – not decreasing – opportunities for students to be physically active in order to effectively fight obesity. If we are going to fight obesity in all of our children – not just the ones for whom healthy food choices are readily available – we need to make a sustained commitment to physical education.I am sure you are aware that due to budget shortfalls many struggling school districts are cutting physical education, which we all agree is critical to combat childhood obesity. This hits close to home for me since my own granddaughter’s school canceled physical education at the end of last month. To that end, Secretary Duncan, I am concerned about the proposed freeze in the Department of Education’s budget for Title I, which is designed to help our country’s disadvantaged students and schools. These schools have seen their budgets tighten every year and are struggling to provide equal opportunities for our children during this recession. As overall resources decline for schools with the greatest challenges in some of our poorest areas, physical education for students is usually among the first programs to be cut. I am concerned that freezing Title I for these struggling schools only compounds budget problems and could force more schools to cut physical education, which contributes to making the problem worse instead of doing something to reduce obesity. I look forward to your testimony before the House Budget Committee this week to further discuss the budget freeze for Title I and its potential impact on physical education and other necessary programs.Sincerely,Gwen MooreMember of Congresscc: First Lady Michelle Obama###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.22.2010	Major Provisions of Credit CARD Act go into Effect Today (Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) commends the common-sense consumer protections that go into effect today that passed Congress and were signed into law last year as part of a credit card reform bill, the Credit CARD Act.Congresswoman Moore said, “This is a real victory for consumers. When Congress passed this bill, we wanted to protect consumers from unfair and abusive practices. And today it’s done.”Specifically, provisions prohibiting rate increases on existing balances and double-cycle bill – or charging interest twice on the same balance – are effective today. Additionally, starting now, credit card companies can no longer charge over-limit fees unless cardholders specifically authorize over-limit transactions and young people under the age of 21 need a parent or guardian’s signature to apply for a card unless they have independent means of repayment.Congresswoman Moore voted for the legislation when it passed Congress last May. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.19.2010	One-Day Trip to Assess Ongoing Humanitarian Efforts(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) is traveling to Haiti today as part of a five member bipartisan Congressional Delegation to review and assess ongoing humanitarian assistance following last month’s devastating earthquake centered near the nation’s capitol Port-au-Prince.Congresswoman Moore said, “This is an opportunity to see relief efforts firsthand and assess what else can be done. It will also help us determine how to provide the most effective aid to the Haitian people in their recovery. Even during the toughest of times many Americans have responded to Haiti’s disaster with great generosity.”The Obama administration is expected to submit a request to Congress soon to help Haiti recover and rebuild.The bipartisan delegation is led by Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA-03). Congressmen Michael Burgess (R-TX-26), Dennis Kucinich (D-OH-10) and Michael Capuano (D-MA-8) are also travelling today with Scott and Moore.The delegation will be briefed by U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Ken Merten and USAID Haiti Director Caleene Dei regarding U.S. relief efforts. They will also see the camp on Champs de Mars where Haitians who have lost their homes are living.For more information on the U.S. response to the Haitian earthquake and what else can be done to help, Congresswoman Moore’s website has resources including links to the State Department and USAID. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.17.2010	Dept. of Transportation Announces Funding on Recovery Act’s One Year Mark(Washington, DC)— Today U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood’s announcement that Milwaukee will receive $21.5 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for two critical bridge projects. Specifically, funding will be used to replace the Juneau Avenue lift bridge and rehabilitate the Wisconsin Avenue lift bridge. President Obama signed the Recovery Act into law one year ago today.Congresswoman Moore said, “Our city relies on these bridges that are critical to our economy and our transportation system. Funding these necessary improvements will create good construction jobs and ensure that these bridges can help businesses move goods and link workers to their jobs for years to come.”The awards announced today fund 50 projects throughout the country. According to the Department of Transportation, awardees were chosen based on contribution to economic competitiveness, increasing quality of life, improving safety and existing transportation systems. The 50 projects – including the Milwaukee award – were chosen from more than 1,400 applicants nationwide. The fill list of awards can be seen here. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.16.2010	Congresswoman Lauds New Clean-Energy Manufacturing Jobs in Milwaukee (Washington, DC)— Today U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) lauded the announcement that the Spanish Company Ingeteam will build a new factory in Milwaukee’s Menomonee Valley and create clean-energy, high-tech manufacturing jobs.Just last month, Ingeteam was awarded more than $1.66 million in tax credits through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) as part of a $2.3 billion investment nationwide. Moore voted for the tax credits as part of ARRA, which became law on February 17, 2009, to help create good clean-energy jobs in communities across the country. Congresswoman Moore said, “This shows that Ingeteam knows what we know – Milwaukee has a world-class workforce and our workers make Milwaukee a perfect choice. Manufacturing helped build Milwaukee and bringing clean-energy manufacturing jobs here is crucial to helping our area compete in the 21st century global economy.”“This is exactly the type of investment we planned when the stimulus became law one year ago,” Moore continued. “This tax credit will help create good, new jobs in high-tech manufacturing and clean-energy now and help build the foundation for long-term economic growth.”Moore has worked to help redevelop the Menomonee Valley. Specifically, she has secured Federal funding to help make the area more business friendly. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.12.2010	
02.05.2010	Asks Superintendent to Immediately Stop (Washington, DC)— Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) wrote to Tony Evers, State Superintendent of the Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, asking him to immediately stop the process to withhold $175 million in Federal education funding from Milwaukee Public Schools.Congresswoman Moore wrote that Superintendent Evers’ action is… “especially troubling given that Congress and the Obama Administration are working to change the one-size-fits-all approach of No Child Left Behind that was designed to punish schools, not students” and that “punishing our children is no solution.” She also wrote that, “If our schools are not meeting expectations today – they sure won’t be able to meet expectations tomorrow with even fewer resources” and wrote that halting this process to withhold funding is necessary to give the newly-hired superintendent of Milwaukee Public Schools “a chance to succeed.”The full text of Congresswoman Moore’s letter follows: February 5, 2010Mr. Tony EversSuperintendentWisconsin Department of Public InstructionMadison, WisconsinDear Superintendent Evers:I read with much dismay in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel that you are beginning a process to take away Federal funding from Milwaukee’s public schools. Your action is especially troubling given that Congress and the Obama Administration are working to change the one-size-fits-all approach of No Child Left Behind that was designed to punish schools, not students. I ask that you immediately stop the process to withhold $175 million in critical Federal funding from Milwaukee Public Schools.We simply cannot lift our children up and build a workforce in Milwaukee and in Wisconsin for the 21st Century if we are poorhousing our kids’ education. We both want every MPS student to succeed, and we also want a thriving school system in Milwaukee that guarantees equal opportunity for every child. Our kids deserve nothing less. But punishing our children is no solution. If our schools are not meeting expectations today – they sure won’t be able to meet expectations tomorrow with even fewer resources. Community members have indicated they believe you are withholding this Federal funding as part of an attempt to take away local control of Milwaukee Public Schools in order to qualify for Race to the Top funding. If that is the case, I want to remind you that Education Secretary Arne Duncan has repeatedly told me and our community – he even put it in writing – that mayoral control of public schools is not necessary for Wisconsin to receive Race to the Top funding. You know that Milwaukee Public Schools just hired a new superintendent who will start in the summer. Your move only takes away local ability to bring about positive changes in our schools. It makes sense to immediately stop this process of withholding $175 million from Milwaukee Public Schools because we must give our new superintendent a chance to succeed.It’s going to take all of us working together to solve these problems, and I stand ready to work with you. Sincerely,Gwen MooreMember of Congress###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.03.2010	Resolution Honors Civil Rights Pioneer Ruby Bridges (Washington, DC)— Today, the U.S. Congress passed a resolution honoring civil rights pioneer Ruby Bridges based on the efforts of a first grade class in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) and Senator Russ Feingold (D-Wis.) introduced resolutions in the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, after hearing about a classroom project at Barton Elementary School in Milwaukee to honor Ruby Bridges’ efforts to integrate schools and improve public education. Bridges was the subject of the famous Norman Rockwell painting “The Problem We All Live With,” of a young African-American girl being escorted into school on her first day. What started as an individual classroom project at Barton has now become a resolution passed by both chambers of the U.S. Congress - officially honoring November 14, 1960 as the first day of integrated schools in New Orleans and commending Ruby Bridges for her bravery.Congresswoman Moore said, “I am so inspired by these young students. Their efforts to raise awareness of a brave little girl on the frontlines of change nearly 50 years ago brought about action in the halls of Congress. They not only learned lessons about diversity and inclusion, they also learned first hand that this is the people’s government and that their voices count. I am glad to work with Senator Feingold to help further these students’ efforts, and I couldn’t be prouder to lead the House effort to recognize Ruby Bridges as we begin Black History Month.”Congresswoman Moore spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday in support of this resolution. Her remarks are available here.“Nearly 50 years after Ruby Bridges became the first child to break the color barrier in New Orleans elementary schools, her heroic efforts continue to inspire the lives of children across the country, and one first grade class in Milwaukee in particular,” Senator Feingold said. “I congratulate the students at Barton Elementary for their great effort to raise awareness of Ruby Bridges’ story of courage and lifelong commitment to improving educational opportunities for all children. I am pleased I was able to work with Congresswoman Moore and help advance the students’ efforts from the classroom through the United States Congress.” "It has been my privilege to work with the caring and compassionate children at Barton Elementary on this special project. Because of the heroic efforts of Ruby Bridges, this particular class of first graders, and all children in our fine nation, have had the opportunity to learn and grow together. It gives me great pride to know that even our youngest citizens can use the power of the pen and the spoken word to make great achievements in this world. It is my hope that by the 50th Anniversary of School Integration, we will be able to make November 14th a national day of celebration in honor of the courage of Ruby Bridges and all children who make a difference in this world by working together... a nation of children united! Thank you to all of the members of Congress who supported "The Little Project That Could!," said Laura Floryance, first grade teacher at Barton Elementary School in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Even though Ruby Bridges endured riots and protests and retaliations against her family, she attended school at William Frantz every day during the 1960-61 school year. In 1999, Ruby Bridges established the Ruby Bridges Foundation to help eliminate racism and improve society by educating students around the country about her experiences, discussing ongoing efforts to promote diversity and providing lessons students could take back to their communities. The Ruby Bridges resolution passed the U.S. Senate on November 10, 2009. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
02.01.2010	(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on President Obama's budget:“We need to make sure that our budget makes necessary investments to build up a workforce for the 21st Century and that starts with our children. “While I am glad we are extending tax cuts for 2.2 million Wisconsin families and increasing Pell Grants to help families afford college, we must also make sure that we are expanding educational opportunities for every single child. But this budget cuts funding for disadvantaged students and it flat funds grants that help many students go to college who otherwise would not have been able to. To make sure that we are creating opportunities, we need to bolster investments in direct services for students.“We need a system that works for all of our students. And as the budget process moves forward, I will keep working to see that we don’t shortchange our future.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.29.2010	Congresswoman Marks EITC Awareness Day (Washington, DC) — Today on IRS Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) Awareness Day U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) encouraged eligible Milwaukee residents to claim the EITC, a powerful anti-poverty and work support tax credit.Congresswoman Moore said, “The Earned Income Tax Credit can make an incredible difference for so many working families – especially in these tough economic times. Families may be eligible for the first time because we temporarily expanded the credit in the Recovery Act. Folks should take advantage of free tax preparation services to make sure they don’t miss tax any credit they can claim, like the EITC.”Every year, the EITC helps about 24 million working families nationwide and brings nearly five million families out of poverty. An estimated seven million eligible taxpayers fail to claim this credit, which could be worth more than $5,600 per family.For more information on the EITC, visit the IRS EITC website.
01.28.2010	Congresswoman Announced Award with HUD Secretary, Governor and Mayor(Washington, DC )– U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) announced that over $820 million is coming to Wisconsin to build a high-speed rail line between Milwaukee and Madison and make improvements to existing rail service between Milwaukee and Chicago. She announced the award in downtown Milwaukee at the Intermodal Station this afternoon with Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan, Wisconsin Governor Jim Doyle and Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett. The funding is part of $8 billion being awarded nationwide that was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA).Congresswoman Moore said, “This funding will put people to work right away on a project that lays the foundation for Milwaukee’s and our region’s long-term prosperity. Linking to other cities will help Milwaukee compete in the 21st Century.” It has been reported that this will create 13,000 jobs.Thirteen major rail corridors and 31 states will receive funding that will lay the foundation for a nationwide high-speed rail system.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.27.2010	(Washington, DC)— Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today made the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union address:“President Obama made it clear tonight that creating jobs is his top priority. It’s mine too. We were on the brink of a depression, and while we have moved back from that ledge, recovery just hasn’t come fast enough. There is still a lot to be done to help people get and keep good jobs. And we will not rest until we have. “I commend President Obama for addressing our country’s fiscal health. But when talking about freezing all domestic spending, the devil is in the details. I will closely examine this proposal in the President’s Budget when he sends it to Congress next week. “Just last week, my granddaughter’s school closed its library and cut access to computers. It canceled music and art. And it even canceled gym. This is being repeated in Milwaukee and in towns throughout Wisconsin and all across America. We cannot raise up a workforce for the 21st Century if we’re poorhousing our kids’ education.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.21.2010	(Washington, DC)— The U.S. House of Representatives passed two bipartisan measures both cosponsored by Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) in response to last week’s catastrophic 7.0 magnitude earthquake centered near Haiti’s capital Port-au-Prince.The first measure would allow Americans who donate to Haiti relief efforts by March 1 of this year to claim that contribution as a deduction on their 2009 tax returns instead of having to wait until next year. Congress passed similar legislation in early 2005 after a tsunami struck Sri Lanka.The second measure is a resolution expressing American solidarity with the people of Haiti as they recover and rebuild from this disaster. It also urges the President to continue coordinating with Haiti during and after its recovery.Congresswoman Moore said, “The generosity of the American people after Haiti’s devastating earthquake – even in these tough economic times – has amazed me. The people of Haiti have a long road to recovery ahead of them, and I am proud that we are responding swiftly to help.”Yesterday, Congresswoman Moore met with the Haitian Ambassador to the United States, His Excellency Raymond Joseph, and was updated on relief efforts.At a birthday party for State Representatives Annette Polly Williams and Fred Kessler last weekend, Congresswoman Moore, State Representatives Williams and Kessler and Alderman Willie Wade helped raise approximately $1,000 for American Red Cross relief efforts in Haiti. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.20.2010	(Washington, DC)— Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today lauded Labor Secretary Hilda Solis’ announcement that the Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development will receive $6 million included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) to help train workers for clean-energy jobs such as energy-efficient construction and retooling manufacturing.Congresswoman Moore said, “We need to attract new industries and new jobs to our area. This funding will help train workers and create a new, specialized workforce that can thrive in our country’s clean-energy future.” Key partners in this statewide grant include the Milwaukee Building and Construction Trades Council and the Milwaukee Area Workforce Investment Board.The funding is part of $190 million announced today for the State Energy Sector Partnership and Training Grants – grants designed to help states implement statewide energy workforce plans. In the first three weeks of this year, the U.S. Department of Labor has announced more than $400 million in ARRA funding for clean-energy workforce development.Detailed information on all projects announced today can be found on the Department of Labor’s website.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.15.2010	(Washington, DC)— Today, Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on the anniversary of Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday:“Martin Luther King, Jr.’s historic march on Washington was a call for freedom and jobs.“This is a good time to remember Dr. King’s call because the journey for economic justice continues today. We are heeding his call by working every day to help relieve joblessness.“I applaud what President Obama has done for everyday working people after only a year in office. For far too long, we have seen an economy that only works for the wealthy. “Dr. King said, “The arc of history is long, but it bends towards justice.” We will not rest until we have restored economic justice and created good livelihoods for people.” ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.14.2010	(Washington, DC)— Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) applauded Housing Secretary Shawn Donovan’s announcement that the City of Milwaukee will receive $25 million included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to help improve neighborhoods by fixing properties left vacant due to foreclosure.An additional $11 million is expected to be used in Milwaukee by Habitat for Humanity, which received a total of $137 million for projects nationwide.Recent reports show that Wisconsin had a record number of foreclosures in 2009 and foreclosures in Milwaukee County increased by nearly ten percent from 2008.Congresswoman Moore said, “Too many neighborhoods in Milwaukee have been hurt by foreclosures, leaving homes abandoned or even falling apart. This funding will help the city go directly into neighborhoods hit hardest and reduce blight by fixing these properties.”These funds are part of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and help communities stabilize housing markets by purchasing and redeveloping foreclosed and abandoned properties. Foreclosures not only weaken property values and the housing market, they can devastate neighborhoods and increase blight and crime. ###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.13.2010	(Washington, DC)— U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today lauded Labor Secretary Hilda Solis’ announcement of nearly $150 million in ‘Pathways Out Of Poverty’ grants included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) to help provide education and job training, placement and retention services for people below or near the poverty line.Jobs for the Future, a national nonprofit, will receive nearly $8 million for work in Milwaukee, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles and Philadelphia. According to the organization more than $1 million will come to Milwaukee through partner organizations including Milwaukee Builds, Milwaukee Service Corps, Milwaukee Christian Center, Wisconsin Regional Training Partnership and the Milwaukee Department of Public Works.Congresswoman Moore said, “Since this funding will help many Milwaukee area residents get the training they need to work in clean-energy fields, it can create the qualified workforce needed to attract jobs in this growing sector to our area. This grant is targeted so that hard-hit communities will receive this much-needed funding.” The Labor Department encouraged projects to focus in areas where poverty rates are 15 percent or higher.Detailed information on all projects announced today can be found on the Department of Labor’s website.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.13.2010	(Washington, DC)— Today, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) made the following statement on last night’s 7.0 magnitude earthquake centered near Haiti’s capital Port-au-Prince:“The people of Haiti are in my thoughts and prayers – as well as their friends and family here in America and across the world.“Sadly, Haitians know suffering all too well. It is important that we respond to this devastating earthquake as quickly as possible. I am proud that President Obama has pledged our support, and I stand ready to work with him and my colleagues to help Haiti in its recovery from this disaster.”###For additional resources and information on Haiti's earthquake, you can visit visit www.whitehouse.gov or www.usaid.gov.
01.08.2010	Milwaukee Manufacturing Gets Nearly $3.5 Million in Tax Credits to Create Jobs(Washington, DC)— Washington, DC – U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) today lauded President Obama’s announcement that nearly $3.5 million in tax credits included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) will help create clean-energy, high-tech manufacturing jobs in Milwaukee.These investments are part of a total $2.3 billion in Recovery Act Advanced Energy Manufacturing Tax Credits that will create tens of thousands of jobs across the country.Congresswoman Moore said, “This is great news that will help get people back to work in Milwaukee. Today’s announcement could not come at a better time after the news that 85,000 Americans lost their jobs last month.”Specifically, the tax credits will be used for the following:$1,665,229 Ingeteam Inc.: To build wind turbine generators and power converter and control systems for both wind and solar industries.$1,774,800 Kaydon: To re-equip and expand a Milwaukee manufacturing facility to produce “critical pitch and yaw” bearings used in the production and assembly of wind energy turbines.These tax credits are worth up to 30 percent of each project and will be paired with private funds making a total investment of nearly $7.7 billion to help ensure that the United States leads the way in high-tech manufacturing and clean-energy technologies.###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
01.07.2010	(Washington, DC)— Yesterday, U.S. Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-Milwaukee) wrote to the acting director of the ATF regarding the bureau’s oversight of Badger Guns.The full text of her letter follows: Deputy Director Melson Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives 99 New York Avenue, NE Suite 55100Washington, DC 20226Dear Deputy Director Melson,On January 3rd the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported on the current licensure status of a gun dealership in my district. In 2006, federal investigators with ATF recommended that the gun dealership license for Badger Outdoors be revoked. Unfortunately, before the process was completed, the owner gave up the store and opened a property management business. His co-owner’s 28 year-old son and former Badger Outdoor employee, Adam Allan, became the business’s new owner despite his lack of business experience. Mr. Allan then took out a new dealership license under the name Badger Guns. He now pays rent to the store’s first owner, and employs his father and former boss as a staffer at Badger Guns.Even though the same two principals remain involved in the day-to-day operations of Badger Guns, the revocation process has been halted because ATF claims it cannot use the violations of Badger Outdoors in a case against Badger Guns.According to your own agency, Badger Outdoors, and now Badger Guns, has sold a vast majority of the weapons used in gun-related crimes in Southeastern Wisconsin over the past decade. Six of Milwaukee’s police officers have been shot on the job in the past two years – all six were shot with guns purchased from this father and son duo. Further, an ongoing investigation by the Milwaukee Police Department has found that of those interviewed after leaving the store, 1 in 5 were felons, many were illegally target shooting, and customers were engaged in straw-buying to pass on newly purchased weapons to people not legally allowed to own them. I fully support the second amendment rights of eligible citizens to buy and own guns; however, the second amendment does not protect irresponsible gun dealerships that willingly turn a blind eye when selling weapons to dangerous convicted felons.I have several questions regarding the oversight of Badger Guns, as well as the regulatory limitations of ATF.First, in the case of Badger Guns, what is ATF doing to ensure that paper-pushing does not endanger the lives of constituents and law enforcement in my district? To what extent are you working with other agencies, including the IRS and local property taxing authorities, to determine if there are other violations that can put pressure on this store? What additional evidence does ATF need in order to close the dealership?Second, how can the federal government ensure that merely shifting the title of “owner” among a few people is not an adequate defense when gun dealers break the law? As ATF knows, the paperwork techniques used by Badger Guns is not an isolated incident. The former owner of Bulls Eye Shooting Supply in Tacoma, Washington had his license revoked after selling a rifle to the DC sniper and misplacing paperwork on hundreds of weapons sold from his store - but he continues to collect rent on the gun store that his friend now owns. What resources does ATF need to ensure that dealerships close when they engage in reckless behavior, instead of transferring titles among a small group of people?It is obvious that Badger Guns continues to willfully break the law --- local police departments know it, citizens of my district know it, and most importantly, ATF seems to know it. Yet, for some inconceivable reason, these individuals have been able to evade federal and local officials in plain sight by simply shuffling management titles and property ownership papers. It is in everyone’s interest to ensure that gun dealers abide by the law, both in my district and states across the country. If it is a matter of having sufficient authority to revoke irresponsible licenses or impose fines please detail what additional authority ATF needs to close bad actors. I want to ensure that the ATF has the statutory and regulatory resources to accomplish this goal.I look forward to your response.Sincerely,Gwen MooreMEMBER OF CONGRESS###For an interview with Congresswoman Gwen Moore, please contact David Frey at 202-225-4572.
