01.15.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC) A new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released today by the expected Chair of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), and the expected Chair of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, Rep. Jared Huffman (D-San Rafael), shines a light on the importance of federal funding for water recycling projects in preparing the arid West for a changing climate and scarce water supplies. “This GAO report highlights the importance of water recycling to address water supply concerns in the arid West and particularly in my region of Southern California,” said Rep. Napolitano. “It further describes the overwhelming demand for the primary water recycling program of the federal government, the Bureau of Reclamation’s Title XVI program. Water recycling used to be thought of as an alternative supply option, but the growing reliance and acceptance of this technology has put recycling on par with traditional water sources, such as groundwater wells, aqueducts, and dams. I thank GAO for their comprehensive research and assessment of this technology, and I look forward to working in tandem with Chair Huffman to promote sustainability in addressing all of our water supply needs.” “The Federal government has an important role to play in working with local water managers to modernize America’s water infrastructure to meet the needs of a growing population and a changing climate,” said Rep. Huffman. “This new GAO report demonstrates the clear benefits of robust investments in water reuse projects that help our cities and rural communities continue to thrive in the face of water scarcity. In the 116th Congress, I look forward to working with Chair Napolitano to expand these proven water solutions that benefit all Americans.” The GAO report released by the two lawmakers, both longtime advocates for sustainable clean water infrastructure, articulates the broad benefits of the Title XVI program, which authorizes federal participation in recycled water projects across the West, and studies covering various uses for reused water. The report identifies nearly a $1 billion backlog of authorized water recycling projects, demonstrating a clear need to continue and expand Title XVI funding. For 20 years in Congress, Napolitano has championed water recycling projects in the West and nationwide. She will soon reintroduce her bill, the Water Recycling Investment and Improvement Act, to reauthorize the Title XVI program and increase the funding level to $500 million to meet the needs of water agencies investing in this technology. As Congress discusses an infrastructure package, the Water, Oceans, & Wildlife Subcommittee will analyze existing authorized programs and how they are meeting public needs, and will work to expand water resilience through sustainable water investments. A summary of the report’s findings can be viewed here. # # #
01.15.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed into law the bipartisan Water Infrastructure Improvement Act: “This law delivers much needed federal assistance to cities in our San Gabriel Valley who have been working hard to meet the challenges of the Los Angeles County MS4 Stormwater permit,” Napolitano said. “They and communities nationwide will benefit from greater flexibility in addressing these permits, while ensuring the protection of our precious rivers, lakes, and streams. We look forward to the law being implemented and continuing to work in a bipartisan manner to provide clean, safe, and affordable water to all American families.” The Water Infrastructure Improvement Act codifies a concept from the Obama administration known as “Integrated Planning,” which can assist communities with meeting their requirements under the Clean Water Act while maintaining their obligation to achieve improvements in local water quality. EPA’s Integrated Planning framework provides communities with a voluntary opportunity to prioritize local clean water investments with the greatest benefit to human health and the environment. It builds on a provision Napolitano included in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act that authorized $450 million in stormwater municipal grants to plan, design, and construct stormwater, water recycling, and sewer overflow projects. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. # # #
01.11.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on reports President Trump is considering using unspent U.S. Army Corps of Engineers natural disaster recovery money for California, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Texas, and Florida, among others, to pay for a wall along the southwest border: “Congress provided billions of dollars to help people rebuild their lives and prepare them for future disasters, not a slush fund to be raided by this President to fulfill his campaign promise. Americans have seen their lives upended, their homes and towns destroyed, and havoc wreaked on their local economies. Our government cannot abandon them in their hour of need. “Abnormal storm events and wildfires have shown the susceptibility of communities, and we must do everything we can to mitigate past damage while strengthening our resiliency for the future. The unspent money that President Trump may be targeting must go directly toward its intended purpose: making critical flood control improvements to protect lives and property from the growing number of severe storms across the country, helping communities rebuild from devastating wildfires and hurricanes, and protecting the quality and availability of clean water for families and farms.” # # #
01.03.2019	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) voted to end the Trump Shutdown and reopen the federal government, issuing the following statement: “After formally assuming control of the House today, Democrats passed the same legislation the Republican-led Senate approved on a bipartisan basis a few weeks ago. It reopens the federal government, which President Trump recklessly shut down because of his tantrum over a border wall, a ploy that only a quarter of Americans support. We firmly reject his wasteful, immoral, and ineffective wall, which would do nothing to make us safer. The President continues to hold the paychecks of 800,000 federal workers hostage, and this must end immediately. “The situation at our southern border demands our attention and meaningful action. We should be focusing on a comprehensive solution to the underlying issues, including addressing the root causes of migration to our country. We will continue to work toward reform that serves America’s interests, promotes fairness and the rule of law, and contributes effectively and meaningfully to our economic well-being. “We urge the Senate to quickly pass this measure and the President to sign it, so people can get back to work and be paid.” # # #
12.19.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed with large bipartisan support H.R. 7279, the Water Infrastructure Improvement Act, a bill coauthored by Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Bob Gibbs (R-OH-7). “This is incredibly important to cities in my Congressional district as they meet the challenges of the Los Angeles County MS4 Stormwater permit,” said Congresswoman Grace Napolitano. “Our legislation will greatly assist them and communities nationwide by providing them with flexibility to address these permits, while ensuring the protection of our nation’s rivers, lakes, and streams. I thank the House leadership for bringing our bill to the floor and Congressman Gibbs for his willingness to work with us to reach an agreement on this important issue.” “Many of our nation’s cities, towns, and municipalities are faced with EPA mandates, aging water infrastructure, and rising repair or construction costs,”said Congressman Bob Gibbs. “These problems, and the price to fix them, ultimately fall on residents. Integrated Planning can help bridge the gaps between these issues, encourage innovative solutions, and prevent undue financial burdens on ratepayers. Access to clean and affordable water utilities is important to everyone, and the municipalities tasked with delivering it should have every tool at their disposal. I want to thank Congresswoman Napolitano and my colleagues from both sides of the aisle for coming together to find solutions to the water infrastructure problems our communities face.” H.R. 7279 codifies a concept from the Obama administration known as “Integrated Planning,” which can assist communities with meeting their requirements under the Clean Water Act while maintaining their obligation to achieve improvements in local water quality. EPA’s Integrated Planning framework provides communities with a voluntary opportunity to prioritize local clean water investments with the greatest benefit to human health and the environment. The legislation builds on a recent provision Napolitano included in the America’s Water Infrastructure Act that authorized $450 million in stormwater municipal grants to plan, design, and construct stormwater, water recycling, and sewer overflow projects. Napolitano encouraged swift passage and enactment of H.R. 7279, which now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate, and pledged to do more in the next Congress. “The sad reality is that until the federal government increases its investment under the Clean Water Act, communities will still struggle with affordability challenges; we can do better,” Napolitano continued. “We must first reauthorize the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, and I am hopeful that this is one of the first things we can accomplish next year on a bipartisan basis. Second, we need to address the cost of water and sewer services to those households with the least ability to pay. No hard-working American families should be forced go without water and wastewater services simply because their local rates are too high. Clean water should be a basic human right. Yes, utilities should be able to recover the costs necessary to upgrade their local systems, but when those costs disproportionately affect individual households, we must do more to help struggling families afford these basic services.” “Congresswoman Napolitano has been a champion throughout her career to help ensure that communities across California have the tools they need to better address many of the clean water challenges they face each day,” said Adam Krantz, NACWA’s Chief Executive Officer. “Her strong bipartisan legislation to codify Integrated Planning will provide these communities with another important tool to help provide safer and more reliable and affordable public clean water services. NACWA thanks Congresswoman Napolitano for her dedicated leadership on this important legislation.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. # # #
12.11.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), issued the following statement after the Trump administration announced a new proposal—claiming it to be pro-industry—which would weaken federal clean water rules, putting at risk the health and safety of millions of Americans: “The President has no knowledge of or willingness to recognize science. This is evident in his administration’s new plan which would imperil Clean Water Act protections for waterways across the country, jeopardizing millions of Americans’ drinking water for the sake of corporate profit. This ‘pro-industry’ rule is anti-family, anti-small farmer, and anti-taxpayer. Clean and safe drinking water, free from cancer-causing chemicals and other contaminants, is a fundamental human need which must always be protected. “Millions in my home state of California get much of their drinking water from rivers that are fed by streams. This rule allows any and all polluters to dump into streams, harm clean water supply, and bring tax hikes to residents and businesses in my area who will have to pay our local water agencies to clean up the water before we consume it. Why should we force America’s families to pay more to clean up polluters’ messes? This is incredibly stupid and wrong.” The EPA and Army Corps of Engineers will take public comment on the proposal for 60 days after publication in the Federal Register. Napolitano is the Ranking Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the EPA Clean Water Act Programs. # # #
11.08.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement on last night’s mass shooting at the Borderline Bar and Grill in Thousand Oaks, CA: “I am immensely saddened by last night’s tragic shooting in neighboring Ventura County which took at least twelve lives and shattered countless others. We mourn the young people and the heroic Sergeant who were killed; innocent victims lost to gun violence. We pray for the recovery of those injured and send our deepest sympathies to all of the families, colleges, and communities impacted. Thank you to all of the first responders for their brave actions in the face of peril. We must remember wounds inflicted by gun violence are not just physical but psychological. It is critical that counseling and mental health services are made available to all survivors, first responders, and all those in need. These tragedies will remain a scourge in our nation until we pass meaningful solutions to prevent them. We must turn our grief into action and finally work together to stop gun violence.”If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990. # # #
11.08.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on the firing of Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “President Trump’s firing of Attorney General Jeff Sessions raises serious questions that demand answers and full accountability. Congress must act immediately to protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller and all documents relating to the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. The investigation must continue unimpeded, and Acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker should have no bearing on it. The President did not fool anyone with this decision, or its timing, which is a clear attempt to undermine an ongoing criminal investigation. We have to find out what happened. Americans deserve to know the truth.” # # #
10.31.2018	(WEST COVINA, CA) On Saturday, October 27, 2018, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held an annual military academy information session at West Covina Senior Citizen Center where students, parents, and educators learned more about educational opportunities at our nation’s military service academies. “We are here to assist you in pursuing your dream with a nomination to the academy of your choice, and I am proud to present this opportunity to all students in my district,” Napolitano said. “We thank the representatives from the academies for their time and willingness to speak with our future leaders. Thank you also to the City of West Covina for allowing us to use their Senior Citizen facility to hold this important session year after year.” Approximately 80 attendees spoke with and heard presentations by representatives from West Point and the Naval, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Merchant Marine service academies as well as the National Guard. The representatives outlined the nomination requirements and process, and they offered encouragement to the students. “Find a mentor, and learn everything you can,” said special guest, Maj. Gen. Mark Toy, Commanding General, Great Lakes & Ohio River Division, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. “We are here because we want you,” said William Preston of the U.S. Air Force Academy. “The opportunities at the academies are endless,” said Philip Seifert of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Our nation’s military service academies are consistently ranked by U.S. News and World Report as some of the most selective and competitive colleges in the world. Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. Interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in El Monte by Friday, November 9, 2018, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit http://napolitano.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations) • Three letters of recommendation • A personal statement indicating why you should be considered • High school and/or college transcripts • Copy of SAT or ACT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (626) 350-0150. # # #
10.05.2018	(BALDWIN PARK, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held a free immigration clinic with California State Senator Dr. Ed Hernandez (SD-22) and California Assemblywoman Blanca Rubio (AD-48) at St. John the Baptist Church in Baldwin Park to help guide people through the immigration and naturalization process. More than 150 people met with immigration experts and representatives from agencies at the annual event. “Immigrants of all ethnic backgrounds, educational levels, and socioeconomic statuses have come to America for freedom and opportunity, and they continue to drive our nation forward,” Napolitano said. “It is critical that we respect their rights and protect their identities from notarios and others who seek to defraud them. We are grateful to the lawyers and experts who helped attendees better understand the immigration and naturalization process and to all of the volunteers who made the clinic possible.” The following organizations provided help and guidance at the clinic: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Catholic Charities Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles CARECEN LA Voice American Immigration Lawyers Association Mexican American Bar Association LA County Bar Association (LACBA) LA Law Library COFEM Azusa City Library Baldwin Park Police Department If you were unable to attend yesterday’s clinic and you or someone you know needs help with immigration services, please call the El Monte Office at 626-350-0150. # # #
09.14.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) This week Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), John Katko (R-NY-24), and Don Beyer (D-VA-08) introduced H.Res. 1067 to recognize September as National Suicide Prevention Awareness Month. “September National Suicide Prevention Month is a time to educate the public on the warning signs and symptoms of mental illness, share resources and stories of resilience, and spread hope as we break the silence and stigma,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Suicide affects all of us and does not see race, gender, age, political party, or ZIP code. Our bipartisan resolution recognizes that suicide is a public health crisis, preventable, and must be a national priority. I am grateful to introduce it with Congressmen Katko and Beyer, whose leadership on the Suicide Prevention Task Force is bringing together our colleagues, experts in the field, persons with lived experience, and advocates to combat suicide and ensure life-saving services for all in need.” “In recognition of September as National Suicide Prevention Month, I’m proud to take the lead in offering a bipartisan resolution before the House alongside Reps. Napolitano and Beyer,” said Rep. Katko. Suicide is a tragedy that has impacted countless families in Central New York and nationwide, regardless of demographics. We must do more to eliminate the stigma associated with seeking mental healthcare, and to ensure those who are struggling are able to seek the help they need. As co-chair of the bipartisan Mental Health Caucus, I am committed to working across the aisle to do just that.” “We all can do more to help raise awareness of the warning signs of suicide and basic suicide prevention methods,” said Rep. Beyer. “This year National Suicide Prevention Month finds the country facing a disturbing and rapid rise in the incidence of suicide, according to CDC data. Each of us knows people who have been affected by suicide, and we have to do everything we can in our communities and as public officials to reverse this trend.” Background Suicide is overall the 10th leading cause of death and the 2nd leading cause of death for individuals between 10 to 34. One person dies by suicide every 11.7 minutes resulting in nearly 45,000 deaths a year. Suicide is the only leading cause of death to increase every year for the past decade. Suicide is preventable; 9 out of 10 suicide attempt survivors do not go on to die by suicide. Reps. Napolitano and Katko chair the bipartisan Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where they promote access to mental health services for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all. The Suicide Prevention Task Force, which was launched one year ago today, is chaired by Reps. Katko and Beyer and is part of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
09.13.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) applauded unanimous House passage of S. 3021, the America’s Water Infrastructure Act, the final version of WRDA (Water Resources Development Act). “Our legislation builds on the work we have begun in previous WRDAs at focusing the Army Corps of Engineers on water supply in arid regions, such as Southern California,” Napolitano said. “It is a jobs bill that authorizes $450 million in grants to cities over the next two years to plan, design, and construct storm water, water recycling, and sewer overflow projects. This is critically important in LA County, which is addressing a new MS4 storm water permit and implementing water recycling projects as solutions to combat long-term drought and climate change. The bill also increases water workforce training to address new technologies and a retiring workforce, and it creates a national standard for water-efficient products. I am proud to have worked with Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, and Chairman Graves in a true bipartisan manner to meet the water infrastructure needs of communities throughout America.” Napolitano, the highest-ranking California member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, successfully included in the bill key provisions for Southern California: Section 4106 authorizes $450 million in grants to cities over the next 2 years to plan, design, and construct storm water, water recycling, and sewer overflow projects. This provision was originally authored by Napolitano as a part of H.R. 2510, the Water Quality Protection and Job Creation Act. Section 1222 requires the Army Corps of Engineers to study and assess which of their dams can be operated through forecast-informed operations in an effort to capture more storm water for local water supply, an issue at Whittier Narrows and Prado dams. Section 1146 makes permanent a pilot program that was created by Napolitano in the WIIN Act/WRDA 16 bill that has allowed public agencies or private companies to remove sediment from Army Corps dams. This allows dams to be more efficient for water supply and flood control operations. Sediment build-up was a particular problem in the Santa Fe Dam and the San Gabriel River dams. Section 1164 requires the Army Corps of Engineers to work with local governments on incorporating local watershed management plans in their feasibility studies for operating Army Corps dams and facilities, a priority for Napolitano. Section 4304 authorizes the EPA to create a grant program for educational institutions, workforce development organizations, unions and water agencies to provide training in the water sector. This is needed as many employees in the water workforce are retiring and as new technologies are being added to the water sector. The bill authorizes $2 million for this program. Section 4306 authorizes the EPA to continue and improve the WaterSense program which creates a national standard for the labeling of water-efficient products. Local, state, and federal agencies can then give rebates to individuals and businesses who purchase these WaterSense approved products in order to decrease overall water supply demands. This provision was authored first by Napolitano and former Senator Barbara Boxer four years ago as a part of the Water in the 21st Century Act but was never passed into law. The full text of S. 3021 can be viewed here. Napolitano is the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the EPA Clean Water Act Programs. # # #
08.28.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) joined more than 170 of her House Democratic colleagues in sending a letter to Education Secretary Betsy DeVos calling on the Department to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding to buy guns for teachers and school staff. The letter comes in the wake of a New York Times report revealing the administration’s consideration of a proposal that would allow schools to redirect federal K-12 education funding, for services like mental health counseling, for the purchase of firearms or firearms training. “Students, parents, and school leaders across the country are calling out, demanding action to prevent gun violence and keep our communities safe, yet President Trump and Secretary DeVos only hear the voices of the NRA and gun manufacturers,” Napolitano said. “Diverting funds authorized for mental health, anti-bullying, and other school improvement initiatives to buy guns is ludicrous and dangerous. Teachers, administrators, board members, and other school personnel all agree we need more mental health services, not fewer. We have seen the positive impact of having on-site clinicians in nearly 30 schools here in LA County, who are providing culturally and linguistically appropriate services in a stigma-free environment. Comprehensive mental health and crisis counseling services must always be made available to those in need, including in the aftermath of tragedies. Democrats will reject any effort to bring guns into our schools, and we call on Secretary DeVos to clarify that it is prohibited to use federal funds to carry out such an absurd plan.” According to press reports, the proposal under review would allow Student Support and Academic Enrichment Grants authorized under Title IV-A of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) to be used to arm teachers and other school staff. Title IV-A is a program with bipartisan support that is intended to improve school climate in high-needs schools through a wide range of approaches. Grants can be used for efforts such as expanding students’ access to mental health services, supporting drug prevention and anti-bullying campaigns, improving access to arts and STEM curriculum, and increasing the availability of cutting edge technology to support student learning. “Title IV-A affords local leaders the flexibility to tailor investments to meet local needs; however, in writing and enacting ESSA, Congress never contemplated, and thus never intended, that such flexibility would allow for the procurement of firearms,” the members wrote.“Any use of funds to purchase weapons not only violates intent, but it also clearly contradicts the plain reading of the statute.” The text of Title IV-A of ESSA, which was signed into law in 2015, specifically promotes activities that support “a school environment free of weapons.” The letter makes clear that, even without further action by Congress, Secretary DeVos must adhere to federal law and honor the intent of Congress. Napolitano and her colleagues are asking Secretary DeVos for written confirmation, by the end of this week, of the Department’s intent to issue formal guidance prohibiting the use of federal education funding for the purchase of guns. The full text of the letter is available here.If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
08.21.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced their proposed rule on carbon emissions, effectively terminating the Clean Power Plan: “It is infuriating that President Trump is again siding with coal-burning states and coal lobbyists over the health and safety of all Americans. It does not take a scientist to understand that pollution does not follow state boundaries. The expected rule and its increased emissions of carbon dioxide will affect human health all across the country and globe. Today’s announcement further shows this administration’s absence when it comes to mitigating the catastrophic impacts of climate change. “California by contrast is working to combat climate change by lowering our carbon emissions, increasing our renewable energy production, and creating a drought-proof, sustainable water portfolio. However, it is critical that we continue to work with other states and business leaders to prioritize public health and our planet’s future over polluters and corporate profits.” # # #
07.30.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and John Katko (R-NY-24) recently introduced H.R. 6597, the Mental Health Professionals Workforce Shortage Loan Repayment Act of 2018, bipartisan legislation to address a critical shortage in the number of mental healthcare professionals currently available in many parts of the country. “Our bill offers future mental health professionals and clinicians the prospect of having their educational loans forgiven by providing vital services to our communities upon graduation, affording them similar opportunities to those in other medical fields,” said Rep. Napolitano. “It is time we had robust investment in mental health in America, and it starts with ensuring we have a reliable workforce to be able to deliver life-saving services to all in need, regardless of ZIP code.” “This bipartisan legislation will incentivize students and professionals pursuing careers in mental healthcare to work in areas of our country desperately in need of more options for care,” said Rep. Katko. “It will go a long way towards addressing the current critical shortage in the workforce and ensure more people nationwide struggling with mental illness have access to the care they need.” Together, Napolitano and Katko chair the bipartisan Mental Health Caucus in Congress, where they promote access to mental health services for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all. Their bill, H.R. 6597, would authorize a loan repayment program for mental health professionals who work for a period of time in an area of the country experiencing a shortage of accessible care.Arthur C. Evans Jr., PhD, CEO of the American Psychological Association stated, “The American Psychological Association commends Reps. Katko and Napolitano for introducing this critically needed legislation to help expand access to mental health services for the 105.7 million Americans living in mental health shortage areas with limited access to mental health care. With the supply of psychologists projected to be insufficient to meet the growing demand for mental health services, additional federal support for psychology workforce programs is needed to close this critical gap. As psychologists graduate with increasing levels of student debt, this legislation will reduce barriers to treatment for those in need and reduce obstacles for psychologists and other mental health professionals seeking to work in high-need communities.” “The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention thanks Reps. John Katko and Grace Napolitano for being true champions of suicide prevention and access to mental health services,” said John H. Madigan Jr., Senior Vice President and Chief Public Policy Officer for the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention/SPAN USA. “This legislation will deal with two key challenges – the shortage of trained mental health professionals and the cost of getting mental health education and training. One of the best ways to prevent suicide is to make mental health services accessible to all who need them wherever they live or work. An expanded mental health treatment workforce will go a long way in dealing effectively with the current suicide crisis in our country.”The American Association of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP) released a statement in support of the legislation stating, “With a shortage of over 20,000 child and adolescent psychiatrists nationwide, we know that this crucial legislation will make a tremendous difference in addressing our nations’ mental health workforce crisis and help provide needed mental health services to countless youth.”If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
07.21.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited an Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR)-funded facility in Los Angeles County, which houses unaccompanied immigrant children who have been separated from their parents. Napolitano was joined by fellow Southern California Democrats, Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), Mark Takano (CA-41), and Raul Ruiz (CA-36). “I thank my colleagues for joining me on today’s important oversight visit,” Napolitano said. “We came to ensure that all children are receiving the critical services, including mental health evaluations and trauma-informed care, mandated to them in accordance with California’s child welfare law. We are pleased to report that the services being administered go above and beyond our expectations. A mental health clinician, nurse, and doctor are all on site to oversee the facility. Children are able to speak to their parents or other loved ones three times per week and are treated more like members of a community than guests.” Napolitano and her colleagues noted how impressive and very well maintained the LA County facility they toured today was, yet lamented the disparity that exists between ORR-funded facilities—which provide housing, nutrition, physical and mental healthcare, educational services, and recreational activities—and immigrant detention centers in the U.S. “The fact remains that very few children are receiving this level of care and treatment,” Napolitano continued. “Immigrant youth detained near the southern border as a result of this administration’s cruel policy of separating families have been subject to harsh living conditions, causing additional trauma. We do not yet know the long-term impact of these traumatic separations, but it is our obligation to mitigate harm already inflicted and ensure it never happens again.” The crisis of the Trump administration’s own making is far from resolved. While it completed all eligible reunifications of children up to age 5 by July 12, it now has less than one week to meet the court-ordered July 26 deadline for reuniting 5 to 17 year-olds. “The administration is being more restrictive in releasing children to parental custody, using a more thorough vetting process,” Napolitano concluded. “This is good for the protection of the children but could be used as an excuse to keep them longer, further delaying the reunification process. We will continue to demand full accountability of the administration, conduct additional oversight visitations of facilities, call for the reinstatement of the family case management program, and advocate for other humane alternatives to family detention.” # # #
07.17.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 66, the Route 66 Centennial Commission Act, a bill coauthored by Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Rodney Davis (R-IL-13). “The City of Duarte celebrates Route 66 every year in September with a parade of classic cars, equestrian groups, and marching bands,” Napolitano said. “The theme of the LA County Fair this year is Route 66 with memorabilia and Route 66-themed movie nights. San Gabriel Valley cities and those in the seven other states connected by the Mother Road are reinvesting in Route 66. The federal government should be involved in this effort as well. Route 66 is a significant part of America’s past, and it continues to provide transportation, economic, and community benefits to our region and society today. We must revitalize and preserve this historic road, which is an icon of American history and culture.” H.R. 66 creates a Commission to recommend improvements and activities to commemorate the 100thanniversary of Route 66 in 2026 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. It is the second of two bipartisan bills on the topic coauthored by Napolitano to pass the House this year. H.R. 801, the Route 66 National Historic Trail Designation Act, is already awaiting consideration by the Senate. Route 66 is an integral part of the San Gabriel Valley’s culture and economy and runs through the cities of La Verne, San Dimas, Glendora, Azusa, Duarte, and Monrovia, known in most of Napolitano’s district as Foothill Boulevard and Huntington Drive. # # #
07.16.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after President Trump’s meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin: “President Trump’s trip abroad has been an utter embarrassment for our country. U.S. intelligence agencies as well as the House and Senate Intelligence Committees have been clear in their assessment of Russian meddling in the 2016 election, yet today our President failed to confront President Putin on this attack on our democracy. What is worse is he sided with Putin over the conclusions of our intelligence community and praised the Russian dictator’s leadership. These actions only further aide Russia’s efforts to spread its propaganda and undermine western democratic institutions. It is clear President Trump cannot be trusted to protect our country from foreign foes, and his reckless behavior further reinforces the urgent need to protect Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation into President Trump’s ties to Russia. We call on the Republicans to join us in standing up for our country, our democratic values, and our citizens. Congress must lead where President Trump has proven time and time again he is not up to the task.” # # #
06.19.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement on the Trump administration’s continued trauma-inflicting policy of forcibly separating immigrant children from their parents at the border: “Separating children from their parents is inhumane, indefensible, and is a form of emotional violence. The reports and images from detention facilities have rightly appalled and horrified the American public, which overwhelmingly opposes the Trump administration’s continuation of its family separation policy. Despite repeated lies by President Trump and others within his administration, no existing law is causing this to occur. There is no justification for this cruelty, and it must end now. “Leading mental health and children’s health organizations have registered their opposition to separating children from their families, and their assessments should not be taken lightly. These organizations do not claim to be experts in immigration policy, but they do know what is harmful to children and families. “The National Association of School Psychology states:The current practice of separating children from their parents at the border is the intentional infliction of trauma as a deterrent to attempting to enter the United States. This is a form of emotional violence. Such trauma can have life-long consequences with respect to children’s mental and behavioral health and their academic success. Many of these children may have already experienced trauma, which puts them at even greater risk of adverse outcomes when wrenched from their most important sense of security and stability—their parents. The American Psychological Association states:The administration’s policy of separating children from their families as they attempt to cross into the United States without documentation is not only needless and cruel, it threatens the mental and physical health of both the children and their caregivers. Psychological research shows that immigrants experience unique stressors related to the conditions that led them to flee their home countries in the first place. The longer that children and parents are separated, the greater the reported symptoms of anxiety and depression for the children. Negative outcomes for children include psychological distress, academic difficulties and disruptions in their development. The American Psychiatric Association states:Children depend on their parents for safety and support. Any forced separation is highly stressful for children and can cause life-long trauma, as well as an increased risk of other mental illnesses, such as depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The evidence is clear that this level of trauma also results in serious medical and health consequences for these children and their caregivers. The American Academy of Pediatrics states:Separating children from their parents contradicts everything we stand for as pediatricians – protecting and promoting children’s health. We know that family separation causes irreparable harm to children. This type of highly stressful experience can disrupt the building of children's brain architecture. Prolonged exposure to serious stress – known as toxic stress – can lead to life-long health consequences. “Our nation has a moral responsibility not to endanger the physical or mental health of children in government care or jeopardize their emotional development. We call on President Trump and his Department of Homeland Security to end family separation immediately, and instead use a humane approach that upholds the rule of law, while ensuring that future actions do not inflict further harm on already traumatized parents and children.” # # #
06.14.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) This week, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) received awards from the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) and the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention (Action Alliance)/American Association of Suicidology (AAS), for her leadership in mental health and suicide prevention. “Stigma continues to be our greatest obstacle to ensuring our loved ones, friends, neighbors, and coworkers get help when in need,” Napolitano said. “This stigma has real consequences as we all were saddened to learn last week of two high-profile deaths by suicide. It goes beyond the wealthy and well-known. Mental health affects everyone, and we must remind those around us it is always okay to seek help. The recent worrisome CDC report shows suicide rates are continuing to rise, but now is not the time to lose hope. Now is the time to work harder. I am grateful to AFSP and Action Alliance/AAS for these recognitions and our continued partnerships to reduce stigma, increase the access and availability of mental health services, and stop suicide.” Napolitano was presented AFSP’s “Lifetime Achievement Award” at a reception on Tuesday evening. A video of the award presentation and Napolitano’s acceptance speech can be viewed here. DSC_0617.JPG “Representative Napolitano is a true champion of change. As the largest suicide prevention organization in the country, we are fortunate to have her commitment and leadership to mental health and suicide prevention. Leaders like Rep. Napolitano inspire all of us to keep fighting for the life-saving work to reduce the suicide rate and bring hope to those affected by suicide,” said Bob Gebbia, AFSP CEO. This morning Dr. Jerry Reed, Executive Committee member of the Action Alliance and Senior Vice President of EDC, and Colleen Creighton, Executive Director of AAS, presented the AAS Public Policy Award to Napolitano in her DC office. DSC_0630.JPG “We recognize and appreciate Congresswoman Grace Napolitano’s commitment to advancing the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention, and elevating awareness of the resources needed to combat suicide at the national level. Her persistence and steadfastness to suicide prevention in her district and across the nation has been incredible which is why she is so deserving of this award. From improving access to crisis services to enhancing federal investments in suicide prevention, the Congresswoman has gone to great lengths to ensure fewer people are impacted by this preventable public health issue,” said Dr. Reed and Ms. Creighton. Napolitano is the founder of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she works alongside her co-chair, Rep. John Katko (R-NY-24), to promote access to mental health services for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all. In 2001 Napolitano secured federal funding to create a pilot program to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services and suicide prevention services for students. With assistance from Los Angeles County Mental Health, her successful program, which began in four schools, has now expanded to 26 schools throughout the San Gabriel Valley and Southeast LA County. It now serves as a model for H.R. 2913, the Mental Health in Schools Act. H.R. 2913 currently has 62 cosponsors and the support of mental health and education organizations from across the country.If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
06.07.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) delivered the following statement at a House Democratic Caucus press conference, condemning the Trump administration’s inhumane practice of separating immigrant children from their families at the border:“We are a melting pot in California. We treat our immigrants with respect and have passed laws to protect them, and I think this administration has gone the wrong way. It has been mostly political, for the end of being in power. It is wrong to use children and their families. “Imagine if you’re a mother, being torn away from your child and not being able to do anything about it. If you’re a father and you’re at home in another country, and your spouse is trying finding a way to protect that child, being turned down or being made to wait and then trying to figure out whether they’re going to prove it or not. “It is inhumane, and it is time that we as a nation stood up and said to this administration, get with it! Be compassionate! We are not living up to the values that this country stands for, and I think it’s time that we made it clear that we will not tolerate any more of this abuse, because it is an abuse towards other people. “They have legitimate claims to violence in their country, so we must be able to act. The fact that they only process a few a day doesn’t make sense. Instead of putting more guards at the border, put more people to work on those claims to make sure those people are protected.” A recording of the entire press conference can be viewed here. # # #
06.06.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, U.S. Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), U.S. Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and U.S. Rep. John Katko (R-NY-24) introduced the Bus Operator and Pedestrian Protection Act with the support of bus drivers and union leaders from across the country. “The bill we are introducing today seeks to protect drivers from assaults, increase public safety by eliminating dangerous and unnecessary blind spots, and provide additional upgrades to ensure safer travel for all,” Napolitano said. “Every day we hear major news stories of bus drivers being beaten, having items thrown at them, spitted upon, and verbally abused. LA Metro, for instance, which operates in my district experiences approximately 130 assaults on bus drivers per year.This is an unthinkable experience for drivers, and it also has major safety impacts on passengers, motorists and pedestrians, as these assaults often occur while the bus is moving. Assaults on bus drivers are very costly for the personal health of drivers and their families, but also for transit agencies that end up paying for healthcare costs and lost time of bus drivers off duty. We must do everything we can to stop assaults on bus drivers and reduce bus accidents with available technology.” “Ensuring a safe work environment for transit operators is crucial to improving our transportation system for both passengers and employees,” said Senator Chris Van Hollen. “This legislation makes a long overdue push to improve safety conditions for these men and women -- and invests the resources to make it happen. I will continue working to secure critical investments in our transportation system.” “The bipartisan, bicameral legislation we’ve introduced today addresses some of the major safety issues facing bus operations in Central New York and nationwide. When drivers encounter hazardous situations, pedestrians and all travelers on the roadway are put in danger,” said Rep. Katko. “Many of these assaults and risks are avoidable, and this measure takes steps to prioritize the well-being of bus drivers and pedestrians, as well as all travelers utilizing our nation’s transportation systems.” Napolitano unveiled the legislation during a congressional briefing and press conference, flanked by bus drivers and union leaders from the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU). A recording of the livestreamed video can be viewed here. “This legislation is not just for Los Angeles, it’s for the whole United States,”said Art Aguilar, President, ATU Local 1277 in Los Angeles. “Operators have been unjustly terminated because of blind spots that they cannot control. This bill provides protection for our operators to not be found guilty right away or treated as criminals. Assaults on operators is the other major issue, and it is about time we are doing something about it. An injury to one operator is an injury to us all. We need to take care of them.” The Bus Operator and Pedestrian Protection Actgives transit agencies two years to develop Bus Operations Safety Risk Reduction Programs in partnership with their transit workforce, and with oversight from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). The bill authorizes $25 million per year for 5 years to pay for the implementation of these safety improvements as part of their Bus Operations Safety Risk Reduction Programs: · Assault mitigation infrastructure and technology, including barriers to prevent assault on bus drivers · De-escalation training for bus drivers · Modified bus specifications and retrofits to reduce visibility impairments · Driver assistance technology that reduces accidents · Installation of bus driver seating to reduce ergonomic injuries This legislation will also require transit agencies to report all assaults on bus drivers to the U.S. DOT’s National Transit Database (NTD). It is supported by the ATU, International Association of Sheet Metal, Air, Rail, and Transportation Workers (SMART), Transport Workers Union of America (TWU), AFL-CIO Transportation Trades Department, and Teamsters. # # #
06.05.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 801, the Route 66 National Historic Trail Designation Act, a bill coauthored by Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Darin LaHood (R-IL-18). “With National Historic Trail designation comes federal resources to our San Gabriel Valley, to revitalize and preserve our portion of Route 66 for future generations,” Napolitano said. “I thank the House and Committee leadership for bringing our legislation to the floor and Congressman LaHood for all his work on it.” Route 66 runs through the cities of La Verne, San Dimas, Glendora, Azusa, Duarte, and Monrovia, known in most of Napolitano’s district as Foothill Boulevard and Huntington Drive. H.R. 801 is needed because the current Route 66 Corridor Preservation Program is expiring in 2019. The bill now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. # # #
05.23.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) praised the passage of H.R. 8, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018, by the full House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, issuing the following statement: “I thank Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, and Chairman Graves for their work on this legislation. It is encouraging to see our Committee continue in a bipartisan fashion on this legislation every two years. I am confident that when enacted, this bill will provide drought-prone regions like mine with the tools necessary to increase water supply and water conservation measures, and be better prepared for future storm events to capture and reuse water that would have otherwise been lost. I thank my constituent water agencies for their input throughout this process, including the Upper San Gabriel Valley Municipal Water District, the Three Valleys Municipal Water District, the San Gabriel Valley Municipal Water District, the San Gabriel Valley WaterMaster, the Los Angeles County Department of Public Works and my local Corps leadership in General Helmlinger, Colonel Gibbs and David Van Dorpe.” Napolitano, the highest-ranking California member of the Committee, successfully included in the bill key provisions for her state: Section 109 that will require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to work with local governments on integrated water resources planning to incorporate into Corps projects locally developed plans for stormwater management, water quality improvement, and water recycling Section 107 to provide for forecast informed operations in water control manuals to ensure that dams are being used effectively to maximize local water supply Section 115 to provide a comprehensive report on the operation and maintenance backlog of Corps projects so that Congress has a full accounting of the unmet needs of authorized water resource projects. The full text of H.R. 8 can be viewed here, and Napolitano’s full opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. Napolitano is the ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the EPA Clean Water Act Programs. # # #
05.18.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) signed a bipartisan discharge petition to force a vote on the House floor to protect Dreamers. “We are now another step closer to providing long-overdue certainty and protection to Dreamers in the San Gabriel Valley and across the country,” Napolitano said. “I am proud to join my Republican and Democratic colleagues in signing the discharge petition, which reflects the will of the American people, to finally allow open debate and a vote to protect Dreamers. We are committed to resolving this crisis once and for all.” The discharge petition would force a floor debate and vote on bills to protect Dreamers: the bipartisan clean Dream Act (H.R. 3440), offered by Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-27) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA-40); the bipartisan USA Act (H.R. 4796), offered by Reps. Hurd and Aguilar; the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760), offered by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA-06); and abill to be offered by Speaker Paul Ryan. The proposal which receives the most votes on the floor would be adopted under a “Queen-of-the-Hill rule. # # #
05.10.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Yesterday, the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, led by Co-Chairs Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and John Katko (R-NY-24), in conjunction with leading mental health organizations, held a bipartisan briefing on childhood depression and the importance of identifying and treating problems early in life. “We are erasing stigma one briefing at a time, but this fight goes far beyond the halls of Congress,” said Co-Chairs Napolitano and Katko. “Mental health continues to draw more national attention, yet it remains severely underfunded and misunderstood. We need greater investment at all stages of life, especially early on. Every child in America, regardless of ZIP code or socioeconomic status, must be provided the services he or she needs. We thank all presenters, attendees, and the partnering organizations who participated in the discussion and for their ongoing efforts to promote children’s mental wellness.” Panelists at the briefing included Dr. Gary Blau, Chief of Child, Adolescent and Family Branch at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA); Dr. Tami Benton, Psychiatrist-in-Chief and Chair of Psychiatry at The Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP); Dr. William Arroyo, Medical Director of the Children’s System of Care of Los Angeles County Department of Mental Health; Harley Smith, a youth with lived experience; and Laura May, mother of Harley. They shared about their personal experiences, emphasized the benefits of early identification and treatment of childhood depression, and highlighted efforts to expand services on the national and local levels. “My depression didn’t go away, but with support, I am able to manage life and enjoy it,” said Harley Smith. “I cannot imagine going through all the struggles we did with my daughter, only to walk away and leave others to struggle through their journey alone,” said Laura May. “Suicide is the second leading cause of death for 10-24 year olds, the majority of whom suffer from depression, a treatable condition. Estimates through 2016 suggest that 3.1 million adolescents ages 12-17 years have been affected by depression, however, 60% have not received treatment,” said Dr. Benton. “Early recognition and intervention are key to successful treatment of child and adolescent depression. We can decrease the stigma of mental health conditions and increase access to care by treating young people where they are seeking support—from schools and their primary care providers. “SAMHSA greatly appreciates the efforts of the Mental Health Caucus and their partners to shine a spotlight on the importance of ‘Caring for Every Child’s Mental Health.’” said Dr. Blau. “I was pleased to share SAMHSA’s efforts to advance initiatives that align with the Interdepartmental Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee’s recommendations related to children and youth with serious emotional disturbances.” “Raising public awareness as to the importance of early intervention for mental health problems in young people is critical to their success later in life,” said Dr. Arroyo. “Providing mental health services in stigma-free environments, e.g., schools, is essential to the well-being of youth.” Jill Diamond, Multiple Emmy Winner and International Chair of World Boxing Cares, the non-profit organization that connects boxing personalities and world champions with those in need throughout the world, was a special guest at the briefing. She presented Congresswoman Napolitano with a boxing belt as a long-time stigma fighter. “Battling for those who have no voice, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano is the World Boxing Council's Champion of the World, in all divisions,” said Ms. Diamond. “We love fighters, and Grace is a warrior.” NAMI, the National Federation of Families for Children’s Mental Health, the American Association of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, and Mental Health America co-hosted the briefing and panel discussion. A recording of the livestreamed video can be viewed here. Yesterday, Napolitano and Katko also introduced H.Res.883, recognizing May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. “Mental health affects the well-being of communities in every congressional district across the country, but many areas lack adequate resources to treat those in need,” added Napolitano and Katko. “We invite our colleagues to work with us to raise awareness and reduce stigma this May, so we can provide our constituents with the support and services they need to thrive.”If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/issues/may-mental-health-awareness-month. # # #
04.26.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) spoke on the House floor against the Denham amendment (#79) to H.R. 4, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018, which would overturn laws protecting truck driver meal and rest breaks, wages, and benefits:“Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to the Denham amendment which would overturn a federal court decision that determined that California meal and rest break laws apply to truckers. “On July 9, 2014, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that trucking operators in California must allow for a 30-minute meal break after 5 hours of work and a 10-minute rest break after each 4 hours worked. This meal and rest break standard is very reasonable when you consider that truck drivers can be subject to 14 hours of on-duty time. “The Denham amendment would not only preempt California’s law but would also preempt laws in 21 other states and territories that guarantee meal and rest breaks. “This amendment is further harmful as it includes broad preemption language that would prohibit states and local governments from enacting laws that 'impose any additional obligation on motor carriers.' This preemption would attack state minimum wage laws, sick leave laws, FMLA, and other laws that protect truck drivers pay and benefits. “Mr. Chairman, States should be allowed to set these important standards for truck driver working conditions as they see fit for the health and safety of their workers. I ask my colleagues to oppose the Denham amendment, and I yield back.” Napolitano sits on the Subcommittee on Aviation, which has jurisdiction over the FAA, and is the highest-ranking California member on the full Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. # # #
04.24.2018	(EL MONTE, CA) On Friday, April 20, 2018, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano honored the 2018 “Unsung Heroines” Women of the Year for exemplary service at an awards ceremony at the Grace T. Black Auditorium in El Monte. “Each one of you is a unique volunteer, and you all deserve recognition and special attention for your selfless acts of service to our San Gabriel Valley communities,” Napolitano said. “Your compassion, hard work, enthusiasm, and creativity, with a lot of understanding, touch many lives and make a world of difference. We sincerely thank you for giving so much of yourselves for the benefit of others.” 16 women received the award. Each woman’s name was submitted by her volunteer organization or community group which felt her contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked the women personally. “There are a lot of needs in our community, so I would encourage future volunteers to look at areas they feel comfortable and give any time they can to those causes,” said Carol Gilkinson of the City of Glendora. “I feel humbled and very surprised to receive this recognition. It is very nice to see people who are doing extra things be recognized.” “Growing up we were taught to help others in need no matter who they were,” said Mona Diaz of the City of La Puente. “And if you do something good, something good will come back to you.” “You can gain a lot of self-confidence and self-esteem when you volunteer,” said Pam Greene of the Monrovia Police Officers’ Association. “Go out there and find someone to help.” "When you give something to your community, you’re helping your neighbors, and it makes you feel good. It’s a win-win,” said Barbara Radford of the City of Monrovia. “Volunteering at a young age can help determine career paths, and it also helps older women like me stay active.” The 2018 Women of the Year: Annalynn Apolinario – California Mental Health Connection Teresa Balcazar – North Whittier Neighborhood Watch Avocado Heights Association (NWNWAHA) Keshia Bowen – Councilmember Larry J. Spicer, City of Monrovia Maria Campos – Baldwin Park United Methodist Church Mona Diaz – Mayor Pro Tem Dan Holloway, City of La Puente Carol Gilkinson – Mayor Pro Tem Judy M. Nelson, City of Glendora Pamela “Pam” Greene – Monrovia Police Officers’ Association Lynn Hendricks – Councilmember Karen Davis, City of Glendora Esperanza B. Herrera – Baldwin Park Adult and Community Education Katy Ingersoll – Citrus Valley Hospice and Home Health Rebeca Martinez-Barrett – Councilmember Jerry Velasco, City of El Monte Suzanne Perez – Councilmember Cruz Baca, Baldwin Park Women’s Club Dorann Poynter – Azusa Woman’s Club Barbara Radford – Councilmember Becky A. Shevlin, City of Monrovia Yolanda Valadez – City of La Verne Sandra “Sandy” Williams – Monrovia Police Department # # #
04.18.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) cosponsored the bipartisan “Queen-of-the-Hill” rule, H.Res.774, to allow a House floor debate on four DACA solution measures. Led by Reps. Jeff Denham (R-CA-10), Pete Aguilar (D-CA-31), and Will Hurd (R-TX-23), H.Res.774 now has the support of 50 Republicans and 190 Democrats for a total of 240 cosponsors, easily surpassing the 218 votes needed to pass the measure through the House.“We trust that now Speaker Ryan and the Republican leadership will yield to what the majority of Americans and the majority of House members clearly support,” Napolitano said. “An open floor debate to provide a narrow, permanent solution for Dreamers, whose lives have been hanging in the balance since President Trump cruelly terminated DACA in September of 2017, is urgent and long overdue. We are grateful to our Republican colleagues who have joined us in calling on Speaker Ryan to finally give us a vote to protect and provide certainty to Dreamers. If we remain united, we will prevail.” If adopted, H.Res.774 would force a floor debate and vote on four amendments: the bipartisan clean Dream Act (H.R. 3440), offered by Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL-27) and Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA-40); the bipartisan USA Act (H.R. 4796), offered by Reps. Hurd and Aguilar; the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760), offered by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA-06); and a bill to be offered by Speaker Paul Ryan. This “Queen-of-the-Hill” rule means that whichever proposal receives the most votes would be adopted by the House and sent to the Senate for consideration. # # #
04.12.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) voted no on H.J.Res. 2, the Republican Balanced Budget constitutional amendment, which is designed to force painful cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, issuing the following statement: “The Tax Scam was just that; a scam. Now Republicans are trying to make up for it by cutting every program that helps America’s working families. Their phony balanced budget amendment would destroy Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security and take away from other critical services millions rely on daily. It is downright shameful House Republicans are trying to balance the budget on the backs of hardworking people, demanding seniors to sacrifice their retirement security to pay for the Republicans’ reckless spending. We must keep the promises we have made to our seniors and veterans, create good-paying jobs, and reduce deficits in a responsible and sustainable manner. I stand with working families in my district and firmly reject this latest Republican scam.” # # #
04.04.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement marking the fiftieth anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “The untimely assassination may have cut short his life, but it failed to silence Dr. King, whose indomitable spirit is alive and with us today. His message of overcoming hate with love strongly resonates in the hearts of millions of Americans, inspiring new generations to continue his hard work to bring about social and economic justice. We reflect on the progress made over the last half century because of Dr. King’s faith, courage, and determination, and we recognize the challenges still before us. May we honor his life and legacy by continuing to fight for the dignity of every man, woman, and child of every color and creed in our great nation.” # # #
03.27.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) condemned the U.S. Department of Commerce’s decision to add a citizenship question to the 2020 Census, issuing the following statement: “This appalling decision is incongruous with our American values as a proud nation of immigrants and a blatant effort to undermine our democracy. As we in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus warned in January of this year, adding a citizenship question to the 2020 Census only serves to instill fear among immigrant communities, decrease participation, and negatively impact the outcome and accuracy. It is clear that the Trump Administration is not committed to ensuring a fair and accurate census. “Data collected in the decennial U.S. Census is absolutely vital for the appropriate distribution of federal dollars to California’s cities for our schools, roads, police and fire protection, and other critical government services our communities rely on daily. An accurate count should be of utmost concern for all San Gabriel Valley cities, as information collected could have implications for the next 10 years for our region. I urge all cities to speak out on behalf of their residents and join us in condemning this action.” # # #
03.20.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on the six-month anniversary of when Hurricane Maria made landfall on Puerto Rico: “Hurricane Maria’s landfall on Puerto Rico last September and the ensuing humanitarian crisis are unlike anything our fellow Americans have ever had to endure. This natural disaster has destroyed hundreds of homes, blocked over half of all residents’ access to potable water, and caused island-wide blackouts. Tens of thousands of American citizens, half a year later, remain without permanent shelter, water, or electricity, and 1 in 10 customers will still not have power by the end of this month, according to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. “The hurricane’s devastation has also taken a massive toll on the mental health of Puerto Rican families. Crisis hotlines have been jammed as survivors are dealing with the aftermath of the storm. We must continue to provide support for critical mental health and life-saving services for all in need. Many residents feel neglected by a delayed federal response and inaction in urgent areas, but they should know we are standing with them. “As Puerto Rico continues to recover, now is the time for FEMA and the federal government to make investments not only to repair the damage but to rebuild a more resilient infrastructure capable of standing up to future disasters. We will continue fighting to ensure our fellow citizens have the support and services they need.” # # #
02.28.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) introduced H.R. 5127, the Water Recycling Investment and Improvement Act, to assist water agencies with the expansion, planning, designing, and building of water recycling plants and modernizing water infrastructure in California, other western states, and communities across the country. “As we explore new ways to enhance our water portfolio and safeguard our local communities from future water shortages and drought, it is imperative that we prioritize water recycling infrastructure projects,” Napolitano said. “This legislation would give local water agencies the necessary funding to increase capacities for existing recycling plants or create new cost-effective projects to boost water supplies. Climate change, unpredictable drought cycles, and population growth have strained our water supplies and economies in recent decades, and we in Southern California know full well that every drop of water is vital. The President is calling for an overhaul of our nation’s infrastructure; repairing and improving our water recycling infrastructure must be a part of this endeavor.” Napolitano introduced H.R. 5127 with Reps. Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Nanette Barragán (CA-44), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), and Julia Brownley (CA-26). Summary of H.R. 5127 Increases funding Authorization for the Bureau of Reclamation’s Title XVI water recycling competitive grant program to $500 million from $50 million. Makes the program permanent as it currently expires in 2021. Funds water recycling and reuse projects for 17 western states. Reauthorizes the expired EPA Alternative Water Source Projects Program Provides $375 million in Authorization for the Alternative Water Source program and makes it permanent for water agencies across the country. Provides grants for projects that conserve, manage, reclaim, or reuse water, wastewater, or stormwater. # # #
02.26.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after the Supreme Court announced it would decline to hear UC Regents v. DHS, the California case that resulted in an injunction temporarily reinstating DACA renewals: “We are relieved that the Supreme Court has rejected the Trump administration’s appeal challenging DACA. Its refusal to hear this case means current DACA recipients may continue submitting renewal applications as long as the lower court’s injunction remains in place. But DREAMers who would be eligible for DACA are still not permitted to apply and face the threat of deportation. This underscores the urgent need for Congress to pass a narrow, permanent legislative solution to protect and provide certainty to all DREAMers, action that is supported by the overwhelming majority of Americans. We have no time to waste. Now is the time to act and do what is right for these young people and for our country.” # # #
02.12.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after President Trump unveiled his infrastructure plan: “This infrastructure plan is a sham, which amounts to a toll tax that San Gabriel Valley residents do not want and can ill afford. Our roads, bridges, and railroads are not for sale. “President Trump is calling for only $200 billion in new federal funding, while cutting $168 billion from widely-popular, existing transportation programs, as outlined in his budget proposal released today. It makes absolutely no sense to create new burdensome programs for local communities while taking away from vital projects that do not require tolls. The Trump plan also eliminates important local hire requirements in Southern California—where 80% of infrastructure projects are funded by local taxpayers—in order to allow out-of-state labor to take our jobs. “We all agree we must modernize our roads, bridges, schools, airports, sea ports, drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, and our energy infrastructure. We can accomplish this goal and create millions of good-paying jobs without crippling our public transit system, weakening environmental protections, or lowering labor standards, as President Trump’s plan would do. The president’s long-awaited infrastructure plan is a huge disappointment and a non-starter.” # # #
02.07.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives as part of an effort to force a vote on H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act:“I thank the gentlelady for yielding. DREAMers embody our American ideals, values, and everything we hold dear. They are proud servicemembers, students, teachers, health care workers, first responders, and entrepreneurs. The DACA program has allowed many of them to build a life here and make positive, significant contributions to the U.S. economy and their communities.“DACA recipients, in fact, earn higher wages and will contribute an estimated $460 billion to the U.S. GDP over the next decade. It is no wonder employers and corporate America are demanding a solution. The economic case for passing the DREAM Act is strong. It is not just the right thing to do for our economy, though, it is the right thing to do, period.“H.R. 3440, the DREAM Act, builds on these great successes and honors our history and heritage, as we are a proud nation of immigrants from all over the world! Poll after poll reflects overwhelming support for allowing DREAMers to remain permanently in the U.S. Nearly 8 in 10 voters, including almost 3/4 of Trump voters, agree on this. Only 14 percent believe they should be forced to leave.“The faith community is also imploring Congress to do what is right, compassionate, and just. Just this morning I met with the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, who said this is about human dignity and how we treat people. They understand the weight of our inaction and indecisiveness. Anxiety and hopelessness continue to grow as the President dithers. We are now less than one month away from the end of the 6-month delay period set by President Trump to fix the mess he created. No more delaying. No more inaction.“DREAMers kept their promise to the only nation they know and love. Our government must honor its commitment to protect them and their families. Mr. Speaker, this is the 20th time we have asked for a vote on the clean DREAM Act. All we are asking for is a vote. Give us a vote, so we can give young immigrants, their families, employers, teachers, coworkers, and friends some certainty and peace of mind. “I ask my colleagues to vote against the Previous Question so that we can immediately bring the DREAM Act to the Floor and finally do what is right for our young people and for our country. I yield back.” If successful, the bipartisan DREAM Act would have been immediately brought to the floor for a vote. Unfortunately, House Republicans blocked Napolitano’s effort to allow a vote or even debate the bill. # # #
02.02.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement on the release of House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes’ memo: “With questionable information in their partisan, misleading memo, Republicans are not fooling anyone by their claims that this was done in the name of full transparency. If this were true, Chairman Nunes and other Republicans on the Intelligence Committee would have approved the concurrent release of the memo written by Democrats on the Committee. “It is clear that the rationale for authoring, declassifying, and ultimately releasing the memo was to discredit our nation’s top law enforcement officials and to undermine Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. “We call on Speaker Ryan to remove Chairman Nunes and allow for the immediate release of the Democratic memo. Congress must also act swiftly to protect Special Counsel Mueller and the investigation.” # # #
01.30.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) called for a robust infrastructure bill for the San Gabriel Valley and the nation, as meager details of President Trump’s infrastructure plan have been released, in advance of his first State of the Union address. “Congress must pass a bipartisan, job-creating infrastructure bill that includes a tangible funding stream, with real money, in order to pay for much-needed projects in our region and across the country without taking away from anything else,” Napolitano said. “We need to invest in improving the everyday commute by expanding our highways, increasing transit options, and repairing dilapidated bridges and roads. We must make it easier and safer to move goods to market and increase business productivity. If President Trump is going to call for even an iota of private investment, then he needs to know we are not going to privatize our roads or public rail infrastructure. No more tolls; our roads are not for sale.” President Trump’s principles for an infrastructure bill, which were recently made public have been perplexing, raising questions about how much increased funding he is actually proposing, if the funds will be distributed fairly, and whether his proposal’s true intention is to destroy environmental laws that protect clean water and clean air in our communities. “I am concerned with some of the details that have been released so far regarding President Trump’s infrastructure plan,” Napolitano continued. “What is confusing is that much of it is repacked versions of existing programs. The new Infrastructure Incentives Initiative is the same as the existing Obama TIGER program, which ironically Trump zeroes out funding for in his budget. He also plans to roll back major environmental laws such as the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, and the NEPA process, which gives local residents a say on construction projects in their communities. Lastly, the majority of current federal transportation and infrastructure funding is formula funding distributed in an effort to make sure each state receives its fair share, but Trump’s infrastructure plan gives most of the authority for decisions about funding to himself and his political appointees.” Echoing the region’s need for a comprehensive infrastructure bill was Napolitano’s State of the Union guest, Doran J. Barnes. Mr. Barnes is the former president of the American Public Transportation Association (APTA), a resident of West Covina, and currently serves as Executive Director of Foothill Transit, the primary transit provider in the San Gabriel Valley. “Our nation’s transportation infrastructure is our country’s economic backbone,” said Mr. Barnes. “Bipartisan efforts for a federal infrastructure bill inspire hope as we work together to ensure investment in public transportation. Its impact on our region would be immediate, stimulating the economy, creating opportunity and jobs, and reducing the chokehold traffic has on our mobility.” # # #
01.26.2018	(EL MONTE, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement after the White House published their immigration proposals: “President Trump repeatedly told DREAMers not to worry, that they would be taken care of, and that he would show them great heart. These were false assurances then, and his promise to work toward a permanent solution for DACA doesn’t mean a thing now. “After cruelly terminating the program in September the President continues to ignore the overwhelming majority of Americans who support these young immigrants and their continued existence in the only country they have called home. He is instead cowering to the most extreme, anti-immigrant voices in his White House and his party, whose proposals seek to inject fear into immigrant communities, frighten families and children, and drive immigrants farther underground. “Let us end the uncertainty surrounding DREAMers and firmly reject these xenophobic policies.” # # #
01.20.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on the Republican government shutdown: “Republicans in Congress and President Trump have just closed the federal government. This marks the first time in our nation’s history a government shutdown occurs while a single party controls the White House, Senate, and House of Representatives. The Republican shutdown is irresponsible and could be devastating to hundreds of thousands of workers and their families. We had hoped they would learn their lesson from 2013, but instead, they chose not to work in good faith, proving again their inability to govern. “Democrats will continue to fight for health care for children, pensions for retirees, a permanent solution for DREAMers, protection for servicemembers and care for veterans, and disaster relief for California, Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. These priorities are shared by my constituents and the majority of Americans. We implore our Republican colleagues to dispense with the drama, work with us to reconcile our differences, and reopen the government so we can get back to work to address the needs of American families. “For the duration of the government shutdown, my District and Washington, DC offices will remain open. My staff and I will continue working on behalf of the constituents of the 32nd District.” # # #
01.10.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, H.R. 801, the Route 66 National Historic Trail Designation Act, sponsored by Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Darin LaHood (R-IL-18), unanimously passed the House Natural Resources Committee during a full committee markup. “We are grateful for the Committee’s leadership in advancing this bipartisan legislation, which impacts eight states, millions of residents, and countless local economies, including those in our San Gabriel Valley,” Napolitano said. “Historic Trail designation of Route 66 will bring federal dollars for rehabilitation and improvement. These funds will be used in coordination with cities and stakeholders along Route 66 for the preservation of property, artifacts, memorabilia, and other historical items. Congressman LaHood and I are proud to sponsor this legislation, and we ask all of our colleagues to join us in support.” Route 66 runs through the cities of La Verne, San Dimas, Glendora, Azusa, Duarte, and Monrovia, known in most of Napolitano’s district as Foothill Boulevard and Huntington Drive. H.R. 801 is needed because the current Route 66 Corridor Preservation Program is expiring in 2019. The bill has been placed on the House Calendar for consideration by the full House of Representatives. # # #
01.08.2018	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) condemned the Trump Administration’s decision to end Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for nearly 200,000 Salvadorans living in the United States, issuing the following statement: “Today’s decision by the Trump Administration is irresponsible and heartless. Not only will it upend the lives of Salvadoran TPS beneficiaries who legally work, contribute to our economy, and serve our communities—nearly 40,000 in California alone—it will devastate the lives of more than 190,000 U.S. citizen children, ripping families apart. This latest attack, now the fourth termination of TPS in four months by this administration, betrays our heritage as a proud nation of immigrants and will do nothing to make us safer. El Salvador is one of the most dangerous countries in the world, which is why thousands continue to flee unimaginable violence. TPS for El Salvador was extended by both the Bush and Obama administrations, which recognized the risks of the forced relocation of individuals back to a nation unable to receive them. America must always open its arms to those seeking refuge, never turning its back. We strongly condemn today’s decision and will do everything we can to stop it.” # # #
12.19.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) voted against the Conference Report to H.R. 1, the Republican tax scam bill, issuing the following statement: “Republicans just raised taxes on my constituents and millions of hardworking families. Under the guise of a middle-class tax cut, their bill is a giveaway to corporations and the wealthiest people in America. They promised fairness, but their bill treats working families differently than the wealthy. While the reduction for individual tax rates expires in 2025, the rate on corporations is reduced permanently from 35% to 21%. “The tax scam bill harms San Gabriel Valley residents by limiting the State and local income and property tax deduction to $10,000 and capping the mortgage interest deduction on home loans. It eliminates the individual mandate in Obamacare, which will result in 13 million Americans no longer having health insurance, at a time when more than 100,000 new consumers are enrolling in plans through Covered California for 2018. It explodes the debt by $2.3 trillion, which under the current budgetary PayGo rule paves the way for a $25 billion cut to Medicare next year as well as painful cuts to other vital programs that help working families. “My constituents were not fooled by Republicans, which is why the overwhelming majority have called and written, making clear their strong opposition to this tax scam. They know the bill jeopardizes critical funding for local transportation, law enforcement, firefighters, and schools—all the things on which we rely and hold dear. This tax scam bill is shameful and must never become law.” # # #
12.14.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the 5-year remembrance of the mass shooting which occurred at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT: “With heavy hearts we remember the 20 first graders and 6 educators and faculty members whose lives were so tragically cut short on that dreadful day five years ago. I have met personally with family members of the victims of this horrific act of gun violence and still cannot begin to imagine their anguish. My prayers are often with them and especially on this somber day. “In response to this unspeakable tragedy the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force was formed, and I was proud to be appointed as a Vice Chair to focus on mental health as a critical component of reform, without stigmatizing those with mental illness. Comprehensive mental health services, including crisis counseling services, must always be made available to those in need, especially in the aftermath of tragedies. “We continue to work diligently to expand mental health services and to address all aspects of gun violence prevention to keep our communities safe. We must honor with action those lost at Sandy Hook, their families, and the hundreds of thousands impacted by the scourge of gun violence in our nation.”If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
12.06.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement after Department of the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke released his final report on findings of the Trump Administration Monument Review, which does not recommend any changes to the size of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument: “We are glad that for now there is no expected reduction in the size of our San Gabriel Mountains National Monument, however this decision is by no means final. We must remain vigilant of any future attempt to shrink these protected areas or undermine the will of our communities. Even though Secretary Zinke did not visit or speak with my constituents during the monument review process, we thank all of the local residents, elected officials, small business owners, community leaders, and conservationists who spoke out in strong support of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. Your continued input is critical, as we work to preserve this green space and outdoor recreation area for the benefit of all.” Last week Napolitano joined eight Los Angeles area colleagues in introducing H.Res. 639, honoring the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and the more-than-a-decade-long process of community engagement that led to its designation. # # #
12.01.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined eight Los Angeles area colleagues in introducing H.Res. 639, honoring the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and the more-than-a-decade-long process of community engagement that led to its designation. “H.Res. 639 pays tribute to all of the local residents, elected officials, small business owners, community leaders, and conservationists who worked together for more than ten years to protect and preserve our beloved San Gabriel Mountains,” Napolitano said. “It underscores the fully transparent process, consisting of listening sessions, public comment periods, and bipartisan legislative initiatives at both state and federal levels, which ultimately led to a National Monument designation just over three years ago. This historic designation has enabled San Gabriel Valley communities to leverage additional federal dollars for critically needed recreation, trail maintenance, trash collection, and fire prevention services. As we celebrate these successes, we remain committed to protecting the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument from threats to reduce its size or undermine the will of our communities. We must preserve this green space, a critical source of clean air and fresh water for millions of people and a vital outdoor recreation area, for future generations.” Napolitano introduced H.Res. 639 with Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), Norma Torres (CA-35), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Linda Sánchez (CA-38), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), and Nannette Barragán (CA-44). “President Obama’s declaration of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument was a pivotal moment that was over a decade in the making,” said Rep. Judy Chu. “I was there for many of the planning sessions, townhalls, and roundtables that made this possible, and I was so impressed and moved by the passion of the community that rallied and organized themselves to preserve and protect these precious outdoor spaces. The fruits of that labor are seen in the improved trails, safety, and access to the San Gabriel Mountains, but now, with this resolution, we will honor the community effort as well. This resolution recognizes the importance of these mountains, rivers, and forests to the millions of people in the Los Angeles area and honors the kind of community spirit and hard work that make change possible. I’m proud of our monument and I’m proud of our community members and local organizations that brought it about.” Background/Timeline Early 2000s: Conservation organizations push for greater protections of the San Gabriel Mountains. Out of this the San Gabriel Mountains Forever Group (now known as Nature for All) is formed, which organizes extensive public outreach campaigns and coordination efforts among State agencies, local officials, and other relevant stakeholders. 2003: Former Congresswoman Hilda Solis introduces legislation that requires the National Park Service to determine if the area of the San Gabriel Mountains was nationally significant and to determine if a special designation would benefit the San Gabriel Mountains. 2010: Department of the Interior, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the White House Council on Environmental Quality hold America’s Great Outdoors listening sessions in the area of the San Gabriel Mountains. 2011: Former Republican Congressman David Dreier introduces bipartisan legislation to further protect the mountains. 2014: Democratic Congresswoman Judy Chu introduces legislation to further protect the mountains. 2014: Obama Administration, led by the U.S. Forest Service, holds a town hall on further protections of the San Gabriel Mountains. October 2014: President Barack Obama permanently protected the San Gabriel Mountains by designating it as a National Monument under the authority granted by the Antiquities Act of 1906. April 2017: President Donald Trump issues an executive order, instructing Department of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to conduct a review of all presidential monument designations since 1996 that cover more than 100,000 acres, which includes the 350,000-acre area protected by the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. December 2017: Several months after President Trump announced his executive order, local Southern Californians have yet to hear from the President or Secretary Zinke on how they plan to proceed with the 3-year-old designation of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. # # #
12.01.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn admitted to making false statements to the FBI about communications with the Russian government: “Michael Flynn’s admission of lying to the FBI is appalling and deeply troubling. President Trump and his administration have repeatedly denied any link between his campaign officials and the Russians, yet Mr. Flynn is now the fourth person to be charged with such ties. This disturbing revelation underpins the importance of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, which must be able to proceed without interference from the Trump Administration or Congress. A bipartisan, independent commission to fully investigate Russian meddling in the 2016 election and to safeguard our democracy from future attacks must also be established without delay.” # # #
11.28.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement, reiterating her strong support for Net Neutrality in advance of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) scheduled vote on December 14: “San Gabriel Valley consumers, not a select group of corporations, should have the freedom to choose what websites and apps they wish to see online. This is why I have always been a strong supporter of Net Neutrality and will continue to fight to ensure equal and unfettered access to the internet. Expansion of free-flowing information online under Net Neutrality has allowed news, sports, and social networking pages to flourish, and the growth in wireless devices over the last decade means this information is at our fingertips like never before. Removing these critical protections, as President Trump’s FCC Chairman Ajit Pai has signaled he plans to do, would threaten consumers’ open access to the internet and restrict our free speech. Over 12 million Americans wrote to the FCC demanding the current Net Neutrality rules remain in place. If you have not yet shared your views on Net Neutrality and wish to do so, call the FCC at 202-418-1000. I strongly urge Chairman Pai and the rest of the FCC Board of Commissioners to listen to the people and uphold Net Neutrality.” # # #
11.16.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), on behalf of San Gabriel Valley hardworking families and all California residents, voiced her strong opposition to H.R. 1, the Republican tax scam bill. Napolitano voted against the bill, which ultimately passed by a vote of 227-205, issuing the following statement: “This shameful Republican tax bill is a giveaway to corporations and the richest 1% and a tax hike on working middle class Americans and their children. 30% of my residents will lose State and Local Tax deductions, averaging $17,500 per family according to the IRS, which will devastate housing affordability in my district and disadvantage California taxpayers compared to other states. “It cruelly eliminates the Medical Expense Tax Deduction, worth over $10,400 on average. This is a crushing blow to seniors and families in my district who have long-term medical needs, as well as families with children who have severe disabilities. “The House bill is terrible, but now Senate Republicans want to include a repeal of the Affordable Care Act in their bill, making it even more painful for working families. This would kick millions off their health insurance plans, spike premiums, and undermine our entire healthcare system. “H.R. 1 also abolishes the tax-exempt status of Private Activity Bonds used by San Gabriel Valley cities, water agencies, and transportation agencies to provide low-cost financing for vital infrastructure projects. “I join my constituents, the California League of Cities, California Counties, State of California, and the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership in strong opposition to HR. 1. We must defeat this awful bill.” # # #
11.06.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano issued the following statement on yesterday’s mass shooting at the First Baptist Church of Sutherland Springs, Texas: “Our hearts are truly broken by this evil attack on innocent people who were attending Sunday morning worship services, and we cannot imagine the horror and grief this congregation and town must be feeling at this moment. We mourn those who were killed, pray for healing for the wounded, and send our deepest sympathies to all who are affected by this tragedy. “We have learned the shooter was discharged from the Air Force and jailed after assaulting his wife and child. He should never have had access to a gun. We must act boldly to keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers and people with other violent histories, but we must do so without stigmatizing those with mental illness. Additional mental health and crisis counseling services must be made available to the Sutherland Springs community and all those in need after tragedies. “We refuse to accept mass shootings as commonplace and must work together to stop gun violence in our nation. Our prayers will continue to be with members of the First Baptist Church, the entire community of Sutherland Springs, and the people of Texas in the days to come.”If you or someone you know is experiencing emotional distress, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990. # # #
11.02.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement after House Republicans unveiled their tax bill: “The Republican bill is a tax hike on San Gabriel Valley residents and all of California’s hardworking families. It cripples the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction and bars new homebuyers from receiving mortgage interest tax breaks above $500,000, devastating those particularly in LA County. These provisions will lead to higher tax bills and lower home values for thousands in my district. It is unfair and outrageous to deny Californians their right to determine the best options to reduce their tax bills. “Six Republicans worked in secrecy for weeks while promoting their plan as a middle class tax cut. The bill they unveiled today is nothing more than a massive tax break for big corporations, whose rate will be lowered by 15%. Cutting funding to Medicare, Medicaid, and other vital programs that help working families, in order to pay for tax breaks for corporations and the wealthiest Americans, should be rejected by all. When Republicans are serious about working together on bipartisan tax reform to create jobs and grow the economy without harming California and the rest of our nation, we Democrats stand ready.” # # #
10.31.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano issued the following statement on the terror attack which occurred in lower Manhattan: “Today’s terror attack in Manhattan is absolutely heart-rending, and we join all New Yorkers in grieving the innocent lives lost at the hands of such evil. Our hearts are with the families of the victims, and we send immediate prayers for healing to all who are injured. Thank you to the brave police officers and first responders who apprehended the attacker, tended to the wounded, and protected individuals from further harm. We condemn this vile act and will seek justice for the perpetrator. We will continue to hold all the people of New York City in prayer tonight.”If you or someone you know is experiencing emotional distress, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990. # # #
10.26.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY-10), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA-47), and Nanette Díaz Barragán (D-CA-44) held a press conference with port truck drivers as well as representatives from the International Brotherhood of Teamsters to announce the introduction of the Port Drivers’ Bill of Rights Act (H.R. 4144) and the Clean Ports Act of 2017 (H.R. 4147). “Hundreds of port truck drivers are being forced into working as independent operators as a way for their employer to pay them below minimum wage and deny them benefits, creating an unlivable wage for them and their families,” said Congresswoman Napolitano. “These drivers are compelled to lease trucks at prices they cannot afford. It is unthinkable that companies can continue to get away with this scheme to underpay hard working truck drivers. My Port Drivers’ Bill of Rights Act and Congressman Nadler’s Clean Ports Act are important measures that we hope will restore justice and dignity to truck drivers and their families. I thank him and all of our colleagues for fighting to protect the wages, rights, and working conditions of truckers at ports across the country.” “An active port is imperative for the economic vitality of our cities and regions, and to maintain a diverse middle class. But we must ensure that all those who work at the port are treated fairly and earn a decent wage, and that those who live near ports do not bear the brunt of pollution and inefficient goods movement,” said Congressman Nadler. “I am hopeful that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle can come together on these important issues. President Trump regularly touts his affinity and sympathy for hard working Americans who have been treated unfairly, and there should be no mistaking the hardships faced by port truck drivers and those living near port areas. It is long past time we did something about it.” “In my community, we hear story after story of drivers who work two shifts only to go home with pennies. Drivers who are intimidated, threatened, and forced by trucking companies to violate hours of service rules over and over again,” said Congressman Lowenthal. “I’m proud to support legislation that will ensure that port drivers have basic rights, and at the same time make it clear—once and for all—that port authorities can regulate truck operations as part of their environmental efforts. This is a common-sense solution that is good for the truckers and good for the ports.” “What’s happening to these truck drivers amounts to indentured servitude. It goes beyond wage theft. Some workers—many are immigrants who speak little English—end up owing money at the end of the week. My cousin is a truck driver, and I remember him looking at his paycheck to figure out why he got so little money. Sometimes these truck driver are earning less than the minimum wage,” said Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragán. The members of Congress stood proudly with over a dozen drivers and advocates from the Ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach, New York, and New Jersey, who traveled to Washington to bear witness to the injustice they and their families have endured as a result of a broken employment system. “I believe every worker has a right to earn a living wage, but after months and months of working without earning a salary, I wind up owing the company money. You can imagine the pain when I come home, and my kids ask “let’s go to the movies” and I don’t have a cent to take my children,” said Rene Flores, Ports of Los Angeles/Long Beach, misclassified independent contractor fired after telling his story to USA Today. “This Christmas people will go to big companies -- Walmart, Target, Costco – to buy gifts for their children. I wonder if they think about the sacrifice that goes into those gifts. I don’t have a cent to buy my own children presents. What is a day of joy for most, is a day of sadness for me. This is supposedly a country of free speech, but we are still slaves to these companies.” “This injustice affects all of us. It affects our nation. Our port drivers--our family--have taken on the burden for far too long,” said Daniel “Seko” Uaina, truck driver, Ports of Los Angeles/Long Beach, misclassified independent contractor. “Drivers even have to pay for a spot to keep the truck at the company – the truck that we lease FROM the company. Our forefathers made sure that we wanted tomorrow to be better. So let’s make tomorrow better, for all the generations coming behind us. We need to stop this now.” Fred Potter, Vice President-at-Large of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and Director of the Teamsters Port Division, voiced continued support of all truck drivers and their families, thanking them for persevering despite a system that has failed them, as recently exposed by USA Today’s “Rigged” series by Brett Murphy. “For years, port truck drivers across the country have been forced to work long hours, often exceeding maximum hours of service set by the U.S. to keep America safe, in order to pay the company to lease and maintain their truck,” said Fred Potter. “The Teamsters are proud to support both the Port Drivers’ Bill of Rights Act to create a Task Force to review the broken system and crack down on bad actors, and the Clean Ports Act to modernize Federal trucking rules to empower ports across America to clean the air, improve cargo efficiency, and mitigate community impacts without forcing drivers to bear the cost. We thank our champions in Congress for introducing them on behalf of our truck drivers and their families.” Background An estimated 87 million Americans live in port adjacent communities which fail to meet federal air quality standards. Ports around the country are working toward improving these local conditions by creating environmental quality standards for the ships, terminal operators, railroads, and trucking companies that use their ports. The problem is that current federal law (the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994) limits the extent of what Ports can do to improve their local environment. This same federal law also allows trucking companies to avoid state and local wage laws in order to underpay and overwork their drivers. H.R. 4144 and H.R. 4147 aim to stop the exploitation of drivers and empower local ports to reduce environmental pollution, mitigate traffic congestion, and improve highway safety and efficiency, without putting the burden on the backs of the truck drivers. The full video of this morning’s press conference can be viewed on Congresswoman Napolitano’s Facebook page: Facebook.com/RepGraceNapolitano. # # #
10.13.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced it will end Cost-Sharing Reduction (CSR) payments required under the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “We are extremely disappointed President Trump has decided to end these vital subsidies, which have enabled millions of low-income families to gain access to life-saving health and mental health services. This reckless action will destabilize the health insurance marketplaces just weeks before open enrollment begins. It is a manufactured crisis that will lead to higher costs, forcing many families to pay more out-of-pocket for expenses and denying millions access to the care they need. I implore my Republican colleagues to join us in revisiting our good faith, bipartisan proposals to continue funding CSR payments and protect care for all Americans.” # # #
10.10.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement recognizing World Mental Health Day: “Today we continue to take our fight to end stigma to the global stage, joining advocates from all over the world to promote mental wellness in our daily lives. This year’s focus on mental health in the workplace is so critical with the economic cost of depression in the U.S. estimated at $210.5 billion annually; responsible for nearly half of this total are workplace absenteeism and presenteeism—reduced productivity at work. The human cost is often far worse, as the workplace is a common source of stress and pressure that can impact our mental well-being. We must continue to educate ourselves and learn the warning signs and symptoms of mental illness, so we are able to catch problems before they escalate. All of our combined efforts are needed to erase stigma, to ensure our coworkers, employers, and loved ones know it is always okay to seek help. Recent strides in mental health parity laws and changing attitudes among the public have raised the profile of mental health in the U.S. and around the world, but we still have work to do. Together we can continue to elevate this vital issue, bring much needed services to our communities, and save lives.”Mental Health in the Workplace is the theme of World Mental Health Day 2017. World Mental Health Day is observed on October 10th every year, with the overall objective of raising awareness of mental health issues and mobilizing efforts in support of better mental health. This year marks the 25th anniversary of the first World Mental Health Day. More info at: http://www.who.int/mental_health/world-mental-health-day/2017/en/. Napolitano is the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she promotes access to mental health services for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all. She secured funding for a pilot program to provide mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in schools in 2001. The program has since expanded to 26 schools and serves as a pilot program for H.R. 2913, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2017. It currently has 27 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S. 1370), which currently has 4 cosponsors.If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
10.10.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) rejected the Trump Administration’s newly released set of immigration principles, issuing the following statement: “Before his irresponsible decision last month to terminate DACA, President Trump promised to show great heart and compassion for nearly 800,000 DREAMers. Now he is further threatening their livelihoods, safety, and their existence in the only country they have known and loved. DREAMers are students, coworkers, servicemembers, and neighbors. They are not bargaining chips to be used to construct an abhorrent border wall or advance an extreme, anti-immigrant agenda. The goal of the Trump Administration’s immigration principles is clearly not to protect DREAMers but to further inject fear into immigrant communities, frighten families and children, and drive immigrants deeper underground. President Trump and his administration are not listening to the overwhelming majority of Americans who support an earned path to citizenship for DREAMers. I stand with San Gabriel Valley residents and Americans all across the country in firmly rejecting these cruel, anti-immigrant principles. We call on President Trump to ignore the divisive voices, abandon this inhumane approach, and to work with Congress to pass H.R. 3440, the bipartisan, bi-cameral DREAM Act, today.” # # #
10.04.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) joined 25 House Democratic cosponsors in introducing a House resolution (H.Res. 555) to force the Trump administration to be more transparent about its review of national monuments. “It has been five months since President Trump signed his executive order and over a month since Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke sent his recommendations to the White House, however the Secretary’s office has yet to return our calls to discuss the successes of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument,” Napolitano said. “It is evident that the administration wants to keep this process hidden from the public and that it has zero interest in hearing directly from the people who would be most impacted. It is also appalling that Secretary Zinke recently used over $12,000 in taxpayer funds for private travel from a personal event in Las Vegas to his home in Montana, but he has yet to spend a few hundred dollars for commercial travel to the San Gabriel Valley to listen to my constituents as well as local stakeholders on what the monument means to our community. This is unfair to our residents, who fought for years for the monument, and it is an irresponsible way to govern.” H.Res. 555, a resolution of inquiry (ROI), requires the administration to provide Congress a final version of the secret monuments report and all supporting documents related to the executive order President Trump issued in April. Napolitano and her fellow House Democrats believe the American people deserve a full report, as well as an explanation as to what Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has recommended and why. The ROI is in response to the Administration’s refusal to deliver on the promise of an “open review process” by not providing more information about Secretary Zinke’s agenda, analysis, and full scope of findings from his national monument tours and meetings. If the House Natural Resources Committee fails to consider H.Res. 555 within 14 legislative days, House rules provide for a privileged motion to discharge the Committee and consider the resolution on the House floor. # # #
10.02.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the mass shooting last night near the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas, NV: “This morning we learned yet another horrific act of gun violence had occurred in America; the deadliest mass shooting in our nation’s history. We grieve the tragic loss of over 50 innocent lives and extend our sympathies to all of the families and friends of the victims of the massacre. We pray for the more than 500 individuals who suffered injuries and those who are still waiting to hear from loved ones during this time of shock and horror. We thank all first responders who bravely rushed to the scene to rescue those in peril and prevent further casualties. “The carnage that occurred breaks our hearts and confounds our minds. Additional counseling and supportive mental health services should be made available for all concert-goers, first responders, and the entire Las Vegas community. While we do not yet know all of the details, including the gunmen’s motive, we refuse to accept gun violence. Together we must act boldly to stop this epidemic and prevent tragedies. Our hearts remain with the city of Las Vegas and all Nevadans today.” Napolitano serves as a Vice Chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. She was appointed to the Task Force following the tragic shooting in Newtown, CT in 2012 to address mental health as a component of gun violence prevention. Napolitano is also the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus.If you or someone you know is experiencing emotional distress, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990. # # #
10.01.2017	(MONROVIA, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) marked October as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, issuing the following statement: “A person’s mental wellness can be impacted by any number of life factors; no one is immune. Some struggle managing their anger, stress, or are under the influence of a substance, often targeting and hurting those they love. There is no excuse for resorting to violence; ever. In addition to incurring physical harm from a person they loved and trusted, victims of domestic violence, including children, often suffer emotionally and psychologically. These invisible wounds can and must be treated just like any other malady, yet shame and fear continue to prevent many victims from seeking the support they and their families need. Children who suffer abuse also sometimes become abusers. This is why we are again raising awareness of domestic violence in the San Gabriel Valley and all across the country, saying NO MORE! No more should any woman or man suffer from violence in the home. No more should victims feel shame or keep silent about her or his abuser. We will continue to fight to end domestic violence once and for all.” # # #
09.25.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on Senate Republicans’ latest iteration of TrumpCare, the Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson bill: “Senate Republicans are at it again, trying to demolish the Affordable Care Act without a care of who gets hurt in the process. After abandoning bipartisan, good faith discussions on how to improve healthcare, they have put forth Graham-Cassidy, the worst version of TrumpCare yet! “Their bill would erase the significant progress we have made in ensuring mental health parity in our healthcare system. It would allow states to opt out of covering mental health services, severely limiting access to life-saving treatment for millions of Americans. It also guts Medicaid, the largest provider of mental health services, through which 1 in 3 Californians receive care. Graham-Cassidy weakens protections and could even eliminate coverage for those with pre-existing conditions, like Bipolar disorder, Cancer, or Diabetes. The ACA ended discrimination by insurance companies, and we must not return to those dark ages. “My constituents and the vast majority of Americans strongly rejected these attempts in recent months and will again. We implore Republicans to stop this dangerous bill, rejoin bipartisan talks, and work with us to improve our health care system for all.” # # #
09.11.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the 16th anniversary of 9/11: “Today our hearts are heavy with the memories of the precious lives taken in the horrific terrorist attacks of 9/11, as we grieve with those who lost family members, coworkers, friends, and loved ones on that tragic day. Today we also reflect on the incredible courage and heroism displayed by so many Americans looking out for one other. In those unimaginable moments of distress, firefighters, first responders, and ordinary Americans put their safety on the line, many of them for several weeks and months following the attacks, to help those in need. We must show our gratitude to all survivors by providing them the medical and financial support they need. “Americans will never forget the evil carried out on our soil sixteen years ago, forever changing our world. As we continue to honor the memory of those we lost and the bravery of the heroes of 9/11, we remain vigilant. United we stand against terrorism and other hateful ideologies that seek to break the bonds of freedom and threaten our democracy.” # # #
09.05.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano condemned President Donald Trump’s decision to terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six-month delay period, issuing the following statement: “DACA has opened the door for the nearly 800,000 DREAMers who have come forward, passed background checks, and have been granted permission to live and work legally in America without the fear of being deported. Many have already been able to fulfill their dreams of attending and completing college and are working legally, paying taxes and contributing to their communities. Over three-quarters of a million young people kept their promise to the only nation they know and love, only to see that nation turn its back on them. This is unconscionable. “Instead of working with Congress to find a solution, President Trump cowered to the most extreme, divisive voices in our country. With a change of heart from the compassion he pledged to show to DACA recipients, he is now stripping away their protection and peace of mind while heightening their fears. It is what many Congressional Republicans long sought to do: undercut the stability, hope, and opportunity that the DACA program offered to millions of children. We fought tirelessly against these attacks and will not rest until justice is delivered. We stand with these courageous DREAMers who deserve our support and every opportunity to succeed. Congress must act urgently to protect DREAMers and immigrant families from this heartless decision by the President.” # # #
08.31.2017	(BALDWIN PARK, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held a public forum with local residents and leaders of industry, government, research, and academia at the Performing Arts Center of Baldwin Park to discuss how to achieve a sustainable water future for Southern California. “Today’s forum is truly a team effort with the central goal of securing a reliable, sustainable water supply for the San Gabriel Valley and all of Southern California,” Napolitano said. “Universities, water agencies, cities, businesses, farmers, and residents must all work together, and science must continue to be at the root of our water policy discussions. We are grateful to have many of the brightest minds in their respective fields with us today, whose innovative approaches may help us address our toughest water supply challenges and infrastructure needs right here in the San Gabriel Valley. We thank all of our panelists for sharing their time and expertise and all who have come to learn, dialogue, and advance solutions for our region.” Approximately 125 people attended the forum and heard from more than a dozen speakers and panelists. Presentations highlighted ongoing challenges facing the region with unpredictable drought cycles and climate change, while offering insights into how to continue expanding Southern California’s water portfolio with the emphasis on sustainability. “This is a continuation of the Congresswoman’s commitment to annually hold a water forum that brings together local water districts, government officials, and academic institutions to discuss the opportunities and issues of water importance to the 32nd District,” said Dave Wegner of the Water Science Technology Board, National Academy of Sciences. “It allows for discussions between the users and regulators, and fosters an environment to look at innovative opportunities and approaches to water issues before they become problematic, while helping to educate young people on interacting with the government on water issues.” “As we work collaboratively to address our water supply needs, success will come through the sharing of information and resources,” said Anthony Zampiello, the Executive Officer of the Main San Gabriel Basin Watermaster. “Events such as this increase partnership opportunities and help area water leaders to preserve and improve the water quality and quantity for our communities.” "It is critical that we work together to address our water problems," said Thomas Wong, President of the Board of Directors for the San Gabriel Valley Municipal Water District. “Today’s forum was an excellent opportunity to learn about and engage with what's happening at the federal, state, and local levels as we prepare for our region's water future." “Today was great to hear about all of the innovative and exciting water projects that will be important solutions to help with our water supply challenges,” said Sam Pedroza, Claremont City Councilman. “I was happy to be here representing Claremont to explore ways to secure funding for local governments, from state and federal sources, to maintain affordable water prices for the San Gabriel Valley.” Napolitano is a long-time promoter of conservation, water recycling, desalination, and groundwater management as solutions to Southern California’s water needs. She is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee. All presentations by panelists will be uploaded following the event and available here: https://napolitano.house.gov/2017-socal-water-forum-presentations-panelists. # # #
08.24.2017	(EL MONTE, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano slammed the U.S. Department of Interior for lack of transparency after releasing only a summary of the report on the Trump Administration’s review of certain National Monuments, including the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument, issuing the following statement: “This administration and Secretary Zinke have shut out the voices of the public, turning a review of some of our precious monuments into one of the least transparent and most complicated federal processes. The review was announced on April 26 of this year through an Executive Order by President Trump, yet we in the San Gabriel Valley have still not heard from the Secretary. I placed several requests to Secretary Zinke’s office, inviting him to come to California, visit our monument, and to speak with local residents, businesses, and city officials. I never received a response. I additionally sent a detailed letter describing the history and importance of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument to our community. If the Secretary is not taking the time to meet with nearby locals nor sharing details of proposed changes to these monuments, then who really controls this process? How can the Secretary make a decision behind closed doors in Washington, DC without stepping foot in Southern California? It looks as though no monuments will be fully eliminated as a result of this review, but we sincerely hope Secretary Zinke publicly releases his recommendations and changes to existing monuments he sent to the White House today. The public, including 2.4 million Americans who submitted comments on the process, has every right to know. As we await details relating to the future of our national monuments, I will continue to fight to protect our limited green space in Los Angeles County and across the country.” # # #
08.17.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano issued the following statement on the terror attack which occurred in the Las Ramblas area of Barcelona, Spain: “Filled with horror and grief, we condemn this evil attack on innocent lives. We are saddened by a rising death toll and send our deepest sympathies to the families of the victims. We pray for healing for the injured and lift up those waiting to hear from loved ones. This violence is inexcusable, and the perpetrators must be brought to justice. We stand united against terrorism and all threats to our way of life. The people of Spain will be in our hearts tonight and in the difficult days ahead.” # # #
08.14.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano issued the following statement condemning the violence carried out by white supremacists following protests in Charlottesville, Virginia over the weekend: “We grieve with the people of Charlottesville and communities across our nation in the aftermath of this weekend’s disturbing events. Our hearts go out to the victims’ families, and we pray for swift recovery of those injured. I condemn this act of domestic terrorism and the actions by white supremacists, who sought to stoke fear with hatred and bigotry. Their words and tactics, rooted in racial discrimination, counter our ideals as Americans. We will not give in to their intimidation. We will always overcome hate with love and acceptance.” # # #
08.08.2017	(EL MONTE, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) issued the following statement after the untimely death of Private First Class (Pfc.) Ruben Velasco, United States Marine Corps, a native of the City of West Covina: “Our hearts are filled with deep sadness today as we mourn the loss of a brave young Marine, taken far too soon. Pfc. Velasco loved his country, choosing to serve in uniform after graduating from high school, and his dedication and sacrifice will never be forgotten. He also loved his family and will be sorely missed by them and the entire West Covina community. My heartfelt prayers and condolences go out to Ruben’s family and all of the families, friends, and loved ones touched by this tragedy.” Pfc. Ruben Velasco was one of three Marines killed when a U.S. Marine Osprey aircraft crashed into the sea off the coast of Australia during a training mission when attempting to land on the USS Green Bay on Saturday. The Osprey struck the ship's stern as it descended and fell into the water. Ships, small boats, and helicopters pulled 23 Marines from the water but were unable to recover Pfc. Velasco and two others who could not get out before the Osprey sank. # # #
07.28.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement after the Senate failed to pass the so-called “skinny” TrumpCare amendment, which would have repealed parts of the Affordable Care Act (ACA): "Late last night a group of our Senate colleagues defeated another effort to strip health coverage from millions of Americans. We are relieved by this result, we applaud those Senators who stood strong, and we thank everyone who fought for months to protect health care for so many children and families in need. We must move forward in a bipartisan way to improve access to lifesaving health and mental health services for all." # # #
07.26.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26) introduced H. Res. 476, to support the inclusion and meaningful engagement of Latinos in environmental protection and conservation efforts. “Our bipartisan resolution proudly recognizes Latinos across the U.S., reinforcing the critical work so many are doing to preserve our planet for future generations,” said Napolitano. “Latino activists and environmentalists, especially youth, are becoming increasingly involved in conservation efforts, an encouraging sign for our community. Locally in my district they have been integral in fighting to protect the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and securing additional green space in Los Angeles County. We must continue to build this momentum, ensuring Latinos and all communities of color have a seat at the table where decisions are made.” “As the largest minority group in the United States, Latinos play a significant role in shaping government policy, especially when it comes to protecting our natural resources in the United States,” said Curbelo. “We have a responsibility to our families and future generations to present a united front to combat anti-climate policies and to have a productive, fact-based dialogue about market-oriented solutions, investments, and innovations that could protect the natural resources we have been blessed with. I thank Rep. Napolitano for her engagement and advocacy for on this issue.” H. Res. 476 is the House companion resolution to an identical resolution introduced by Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Senator Dean Heller (R-NV) and allows Congress to recognize Latinos for their role in both protecting and preserving U.S. land, water, and wildlife. It also encourages and supports the participation of Latinos in conservation efforts. “Latino Americans are on the front lines of protecting our nation’s environment now more than ever, and it’s time to recognize their achievements,” said House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva. “This administration and its allies can’t go a day without a new attack on our public health and environmental quality. The acknowledgment, gratitude and support this resolution offers the millions of Latinos fighting back – and those who made such great strides in the past – is long overdue. The continued efforts by Latino environmental leaders, both those active now and in the years to come, will mean the end of unpopular border walls and intentional environmental discrimination. There are few causes, or struggles, more worthy of recognition.” The full text of the Resolution can be read here. # # #
07.12.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and Joe Kennedy III (MA-04) introduced the CHIP Mental Health Parity Act (H.R. 3192) to make critical mental health services available to all CHIP beneficiaries. “It is absolutely critical that every child in America, regardless of socioeconomic status, ethnicity, or ZIP code, has access to lifesaving mental health services,” said Congresswoman Napolitano, Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. “Our bill moves us toward this goal by guaranteeing these services for all kids who receive care through CHIP, putting them on the path to lead healthy, productive lives. I thank Congressman Kennedy for his leadership on this bill, his passion for our children, and helping to elevate mental health to achieve full parity with physical health.” “For generations, our nation’s failure to guarantee and enforce mental health parity has left families helpless as their loved ones suffer in silence,” said Congressman Kennedy. “Even in the midst of a deeply contentious health care debate, support for children and pregnant women experiencing mental illness should unite my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. As Congress considers the reauthorization of CHIP, extending the simple promise of parity to these beneficiaries must be a priority.” The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) provides health coverage to eligible children, through both Medicaid and separate CHIP programs. CHIP is administered by states, according to federal requirements and funded jointly by states and the federal government. CHIP provides health insurance to about 8.9 million children. Congress is expected to consider CHIP reauthorization later this year. Napolitano also recently introduced H.R. 2913, the Mental Health in Schools Act, bipartisan legislation that would create a total of $200 million in grant funding for 100 schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. It is patterned after a successful pilot program started in 2001 in Napolitano’s area, which began in four schools that has now expanded to 26 schools throughout Los Angeles County, including much of the San Gabriel Valley.If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
07.10.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) defended the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument in a letter she wrote to Department of the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on the last day of the public comment period, urging him to meet with local stakeholders. Comments can be submitted online through 11:59 PM ET today, July 10, at https://www.regulations.gov/document?D=DOI-2017-0002-0001. “Seeing the success of the more-than-a-decade-long process to create the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument right outside of my district, I am writing you today to set the record straight,” Napolitano wrote. “In 2003, then U.S. Representative Hilda Solis introduced legislation requiring the National Park Service to determine whether a National Recreation Area would benefit the mountains. It generated over 10,000 comments and received the backing of water agencies and the San Gabriel Valley Council of Governments. The designation of the San Gabriel Mountains as a national monument was not a federal “land grab” but rather gave local communities a voice in how to manage our federal lands. As the comment period closes today, I once again urge you to meet with our local stakeholders about the successes of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument.” Napolitano’s letter is accompanied by letters from the San Gabriel Valley Council of Governments, City of Glendora, San Gabriel Mountains Community Collaborative, and the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, also voicing their strong support to protect the designation of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. The full text of Napolitano’s letter can be viewed below.Dear Secretary Zinke: Seeing the success of the more-than-a-decade-long process to create the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument right outside of my district, I am writing you today to set the record straight on a number of claims mentioned by President Trump during the signing ceremony for his executive order titled “Review of Designations under the Antiquities Act.” We first owe a special thank you to the San Gabriel Valley stakeholders who spent more than a decade exploring greater protection for the San Gabriel Mountains. In the early 2000s a local chapter of the Sierra Club’s Southern California Forest Campaign sought further protections of our beloved mountains. These efforts eventually produced today’s San Gabriel Mountains Forever group, made up of local residents, business owners, and faith and community leaders. In 2003, then U.S. Representative Hilda Solis introduced legislation requiring the National Park Service to determine whether a National Recreation Area would benefit the mountains. It generated over 10,000 comments and received the backing of water agencies and the San Gabriel Valley Council of Governments. Years later, bipartisan legislation was introduced to further protect the mountains by former Republican Congressman David Dreier in 2011 and by Democratic Congresswoman Judy Chu in 2014. President Obama then designated 350,000 acres of the Angeles National Forest as a national monument in October 2014. The monument designation now works to preserve miles of streams and hiking trails for millions of visitors in the park poor Los Angeles region. The designation of the San Gabriel Mountains as a national monument was not a federal “land grab” but rather gave local communities a voice in how to manage our federal lands. Prior to the designation, the San Gabriel Mountains were already part of the federally managed Angeles National Forest. With the 2014 monument designation, the San Gabriel Mountains Community Collaborative was launched to maintain an open line of communication and partnership with our U.S. Forest Service. This collaborative includes water companies, local elected officials, county officials, recreation groups, and residents and is something that could not have been executed prior to the 2014 designation. Rescinding the monument designation would have a devastating impact on local communities. The designation has helped San Gabriel Valley communities leverage additional federal dollars for critically needed recreation, trail maintenance, trash collection and fire prevention services, and the monument has raised over $5 million in donations through the San Gabriel Mountains Fund. These private donations help restore our deteriorating forest health, which has suffered as a result of three recent major fires: the 2009 Station Fire, the 2014 Colby Fire, and the 2015 Cabin Fire. Just last month, the U.S. Forest Service increased the fire danger level in the Angeles National Forest to “very high.” If the monument loses funding because of this review, how does the Interior Department expect our region to continue to combat the serious threat forest fires pose to public safety? It is a real shame that discussion of our natural treasures, like the San Gabriel Mountains, has now devolved into political bickering. I hope the Trump Administration changes its course and starts working with Congress and local communities on securing more funding to maintain our federal lands instead of using existing limited funds to re-hash listening sessions for a few of the already designated monuments. As the comment period closes today, I once again urge you to meet with our local stakeholders about the successes of the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. I am submitting the enclosed local support letters for your review. Sincerely, GRACE F. NAPOLITANO Member of Congress # # #
07.05.2017	(AZUSA, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) congratulated the San Gabriel River Water Committee on being awarded a $300,000 Bureau of Reclamation WaterSMART Drought Resiliency Project Grant it received for the construction of a new river gate inlet structure near the existing Azusa-Duarte Tunnel Inlet on the San Gabriel River. Napolitano requested in a February 2017 letter that the Bureau of Reclamation support the Committee’s grant application. Her full letter can be viewed here.“Congratulations to the San Gabriel River Water Committee on being awarded new federal funds to improve water delivery to residents of Azusa, Duarte, and other San Gabriel Valley cities,” Napolitano said. “We are thrilled this project’s grant request was fulfilled, and we welcome new federal dollars to help address our San Gabriel Valley’s water needs. The new gate will provide better water management practices, which are especially vital during ongoing drought conditions, while enhancing safety and systems operations along the San Gabriel River.” The San Gabriel River Inlet Replacement Infrastructure Project will replace the existing river gate, which was constructed in the 1880s and is insufficient and unsafe to operate, with a motorized weir gate. The project also includes the installation of remote operating technology to operate the ditch gate structure in real-time, to more efficiently manage water deliveries. The grant covers $300,000 of the total project cost of $689,093; the remaining money will be local funding. Napolitano is a long-time promoter of conservation, water recycling, desalination, and groundwater management as solutions to Southern California’s water needs. She is a current member and the former top Democrat on the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee, which oversees the Bureau of Reclamation. # # #
06.22.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after Senate Republicans released their version of TrumpCare:“After dismissing the healthcare bill passed by their House counterparts, Senate Republicans worked for weeks in secret on their own bill to no avail. Today they made public for the first time a bill that is just as mean and devastating to San Gabriel Valley children, seniors, and hardworking families. “This latest version of TrumpCare guts Medicaid, the largest provider of mental health services and a safety net for many Californians; eliminates the Essential Health Benefits package, which includes prescription drugs, hospitalization, and mental health and substance use disorder services; and weakens critical protections for those with pre-existing conditions, like Bipolar disorder, Cancer, or Diabetes. It strips from hardworking families the peace of mind they have enjoyed thanks to the Affordable Care Act, while empowering insurance companies to again deny people basic coverage. “What Senate Republicans drafted may have appeared like a health care bill behind closed doors, but in broad daylight we see it for what it is—a massive tax cut for the wealthiest few. Whether jammed through the House or written secretly in the Senate, TrumpCare is a horrible deal for San Gabriel Valley families and millions of Americans. I urge all my Senate colleagues to reject this heartless piece of legislation.” # # #
06.15.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on the fifth anniversary of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, established by President Barack Obama: “Five years ago, our nation made a promise to young undocumented immigrants that by coming out of the shadows and following the rules, they would not be deported to a foreign country unknown to them. Today we build on this promise and strengthen our commitment to all DREAMers and their families. Thanks to President Obama’s action, to date DACA has provided critical protection and opportunities for nearly 800,000 immigrant youth in the United States. These young people are the future of our nation, who have enrolled in college or signed up to serve in our military. They have jobs, pay taxes, and contribute fully to our nation’s economy. As long as they continue to abide by the rules the government set up for them, they should not have to live in fear of deportation. We stand with these courageous DREAMers and their families, who are here to stay in the country they love, as we continue to fight for true, comprehensive immigration reform once and for all.” # # #
06.15.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), Senator Al Franken (D-MN), and Rep. John Katko (R-NY-24) proudly reintroduced the Mental Health in Schools Act (H.R. 2913; S. 1370) to fund on-site mental health services for youth in schools nationwide. “Supporting our children early in life can prevent mental health problems from growing more serious over time, helping our youngsters lead healthy, productive lives,” said Congresswoman Napolitano, Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. “The Mental Health in Schools Act does this by educating the entire school community—from students and their families, to teachers, administrators, and support personnel—on the warning signs and symptoms of mental illness to help identify and treat mental health issues before they escalate. In this stigma-free environment students are referred directly to a clinician on school grounds, to receive services in a culturally and linguistically appropriate manner. I thank Senator Franken and Congressman Katko for being at the forefront on mental health issues in Congress, and I look forward to working with them and all of our colleagues to ensure mental health services are available for every child in America.” “We need to do a better job of treating mental health problems the same way we treat other health problems, and that’s certainly true for our kids who struggle with mental and behavioral health issues,” said Sen. Franken, a member of the Senate Education Committee. “But unfortunately, schools often don’t have enough resources to help support the one-in-five kids in our country who experience mental illness. That needs to change, and that’s why I’m working so hard to pass this bill to ensure that every student has access to the kinds of services they need.” “In Central New York and in communities nationwide, there is a critical need to improve access to mental and behavioral healthcare in our schools,” said U.S. Rep. John Katko. “Early intervention and preventative mental health programming is critical to treating and building better lives for the many children and families nationwide whose lives are impacted by mental illness. I’m proud to once again join my colleague Rep. Napolitano in introducing the bipartisan Mental Health in Schools Act and thank her for her leadership on this critical issue.” The Mental Health in Schools Act, which Napolitano introduced in the previous five Congresses, would create a total of $200 million in grant funding for 100 schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. It is patterned after a successful pilot program started in 2001 in Napolitano’s area, which began in four schools that has now expanded to 26 schools throughout Los Angeles County, including much of the San Gabriel Valley. “We know not every school has the same resources, which is why our bipartisan measure ensures flexibility, allowing schools to improve their services to meet the needs of their students,” Napolitano added. “The Mental Health in Schools Act builds on the success of our suicide prevention program in Los Angeles County where we are raising mental health awareness, reducing harmful stigma, and connecting students to lifesaving care.”If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
06.01.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced the U.S. will withdraw from the historic Paris Climate Agreement: “I am extremely disheartened and embarrassed by President Trump's announcement today. After decades of negotiation, the Paris Climate Agreement reached last year brought 195 nations together with the shared goal of reducing greenhouse gases. American leadership was front and center, rallying the global community to join the effort to mitigate the devastating impacts of climate change, a worldwide threat. Today that leadership is absent, as President Trump has put our planet in greater peril to fulfill a campaign promise. “In Southern California and across our state we are actively combating climate change by lowering carbon emissions, increasing renewable energy production, and creating a drought-proof, sustainable water portfolio, but we cannot act on climate alone. Despite today's reckless action by our President, we will continue to work with other states, business leaders, and all entities in good faith toward these goals, prioritizing public health and the future of our planet over corporate profits.” # # #
05.26.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) On Wednesday, May 24, 2017, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and John Katko (R-NY-24) co-hosted a bipartisan briefing in coordination with the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention (Action Alliance) on transforming mental health crisis care, as part of a series of events for National Mental Health Awareness Month. “Mental health affects everybody, whether old, young, rich, or poor, yet it remains underfunded here in Washington and misunderstood,” Napolitano said. “One way to address the issue is by improving coordinated crisis care. This great teamwork between hospitals, first responders, law enforcement, and social service personnel can save truly lives. As May Mental Health Month comes to an end, we thank all who participated in briefings and events on Capitol Hill and across the country. Together we continue to erase stigma and ensure those in need know we love and support them.” “Throughout Mental Health Month, I’ve been proud to partner with Congresswoman Napolitano to raise awareness for the importance of mental health services and improving access to care,” said Rep. John Katko. “At this week’s bipartisan briefing, we heard from experts who focus on suicide prevention each and every day. I am hopeful that we can now move forward to transform these ideas into sound policy.” Joining Napolitano and Katko was a panel of experts who highlighted the critical need for coordinated systems of care as it relates to suicide prevention and proposed ways to develop policies and programs aimed at improving behavioral health crisis care. Panelists included David Covington, CEO and President, RI International, Inc.; Dr. John Draper, Project Director, National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Chief Clinical Officer, MHA-NYC; Misha Kessler, Advocate & Entrepreneur, Founder, Rmdy.io; Det. Nick Margiotta (Retired), President, Crisis System Solutions; and Dr. Jerry Reed, EDC Senior Vice President and Director of EDC’s Center for the Study and Prevention of Injury, Violence and Suicide and Executive Committee Member of the Action Alliance . “Feeling vastly outnumbered and ill equipped, the nation's hospital emergency departments are the Alamo of mental health access and care,” said Covington. “In too many communities, law enforcement has been unofficially handed the 'crisis system,' and patients routinely wait for days with no access to care. We can do far better and the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention's Crisis Now report points to a better vision, with real-life programs already implemented in states like Arizona and Georgia. These innovative models are more humane, effective, and far less costly and provide a roadmap for better crisis care for all Americans.” “Through the SAMHSA-funded National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (800-273-TALK/8255), millions of Americans calling from anywhere at any time have received immediate, free and anonymous help from trained counselors since 2005,” said Dr. Draper. “As independent evaluations have shown that Lifeline centers effectively reduce distress and suicidality in callers, this network of 160 local crisis centers has become our nation's public health safety net for persons in emotional and suicidal crisis.” “I believe this panel embodied the profoundly consequential goals that are gaining momentum in the field of mental healthcare, including the paradigm shift of recent years towards greater appreciation of the practical, clinical, and political goals that we know will save lives,” said Kessler, who has lived experience with crisis care. “Ultimately, comprehensive care means the inclusion of the voices of those who struggled and continue to struggle with mental health challenges. It means that we all work together, utilizing our own unique and diverse expertise to prevent suicide and end this public health epidemic. It means that everyone has a role to play – regardless of their political outlook, regardless of their career, regardless of their personal relationship to mental illness. The need is apparent, and the solutions are within reach. We must make them happen.” “The key to meaningfully engaging law enforcement to help reduce suicide and increase opportunities for therapeutic diversions requires not just having quality community based crisis services but also ensuring that they are easily accessible, meeting the "customer service" needs of the police,” said Margiotta. “Thank you to Congresswoman Napolitano and Congressman Katko for bringing us all together and recognizing the need for improved coordinated crisis care.” “As noted in the Crisis Now: Transforming Services is Within Our Reach report, individuals in crisis need access to the appropriate services and treatment—wherever, whenever, they need it,” said Dr. Reed. “A coordinated crisis care network is a state and community’s first line of defense to save lives, and we need national- and state-level commitments to implementing comprehensive crisis services.” Mental health advocates and congressional staff who attended the briefing received copies of the Action Alliance’s report, Crisis Now: Transforming Services is Within Our Reach. A recording of the livestreamed video can be viewed here. Since 1949, May has been observed as National Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when advocates and activists across the country draw attention to the mental health issues that affect as many as one in four Americans. Napolitano is the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she promotes access to mental health for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans, and increased mental health coverage for all.If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. # # #
05.24.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) —Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) welcomed Andrew Garcia, a former foster youth from West Covina, to spend the day on Capitol Hill with her for the 6th Annual "Congressional Foster Youth Shadow Day.” “It was our great pleasure to welcome Andrew and show him some of our daily work on behalf of San Gabriel Valley residents,” Napolitano said. “I admire Andrew’s courage and openness to share his story, and I am grateful for the time we spent together. As a member of the Congressional Foster Youth Caucus, I remain committed to ensuring our nation’s child welfare system provides young people like Andrew with a stable and loving home. Every child deserves a safe, supportive and permanent family.” Garcia joined more than 100 other foster youth alumni from across the country who traveled to Washington to shadow members of Congress, getting a behind-the-scenes look at the House of Representatives and sharing their experiences in the child welfare system as a way to influence policy around foster care. He sat in on constituent meetings, witnessed a committee markup hearing, and was shown around the U.S. Capitol and House Office buildings by his Congresswoman. “I am participating in the Shadow Program because advocacy and commitment to my community is very much what I'm about,” said Garcia. “I would like to thank Congresswoman Napolitano for allowing me to shadow her today and giving me a glimpse into the life of a public servant. I want to support all communities and individuals but also model for future generations, courage and service we should extend to our communities.” Garcia is currently a senior at Cal Poly Pomona University majoring in sociology. Upon completion of his degree, he aspires to continue his education by obtaining a master’s degree in public policy and/or public administration. # # #
05.23.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2018: “President Trump’s budget is a horrible deal for San Gabriel Valley families and outlines the wrong vision for the future of our nation. From devastating cuts to Medicaid, an agency the President vowed not to cut, to eliminating HUD’s Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, the nation’s most vulnerable will suffer while the richest Americans and corporations make out like bandits. One in five of Medicaid’s 70 million beneficiaries who have a mental health or substance use disorder might have no other place to turn for lifesaving care if these sweeping cuts are enacted. Additionally, it inexplicably targets seniors who benefit from Meals on Wheels and takes food out of the mouths of hungry families by reducing nutrition assistance. “This budget is also demoralizing for students and parents as it proposes inadequate funds for critical early childhood education programs like Head Start, which is already stretched thin to meet the needs of our communities. For our future leaders hoping to obtain a college degree and be able to afford it one day, they are offered no encouragement by this President, whose budget slashes Department of Education student financial aid and repayment programs. Our children are our future and deserving of every tool to help them succeed. “The President's budget reduces the EPA’s operating budget by nearly 1/3, severely undermining the agency’s ability to protect the public and our planet from toxins in the air we breathe and the water we drink. It strikes funding for much needed new transit projects, even as the President pledges to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure. Instead of investing these dollars in shovel-ready projects, President Trump is wasting our resources on increased immigration enforcement. These efforts betray our values and will not make our nation more secure or our people feel safer. “President Trump’s budget delivers a punch to the gut of generations of Americans from young students to seniors. It recklessly eliminates whole agencies and reduces Cabinet-level departments to levels where they can barely function. I strongly oppose President Trump’s budget proposal and urge my Republican and Democratic colleagues to protect hardworking Americans by ensuring these devastating cuts never see the light of day.” # # #
05.23.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on yesterday’s terrorist attack on an arena in Manchester, England, claiming the lives of 22 people and injuring 59: “Our hearts join all of the United Kingdom in grieving the innocent lives slain, and we mourn with their families. We send prayers of healing to the dozens who were hurt, as our minds are filled with the faces of people of all ages who fled the arena searching for safety and consoling embraces of loved ones. We condemn this gruesome act and stand hand in hand with the United Kingdom and democracies around the world, vowing to overcome this evil.” # # #
05.18.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) recognized National Police Week, issuing the following statement: “This National Police Week we pause to honor the men and women who paid the ultimate sacrifice, and we lift up all of the families, friends, and loved ones touched by the loss of a fallen hero. We will never forget their remarkable service or the great debt we owe them. To all law enforcement officers and personnel, we thank you for putting your lives on the line each day to serve and protect our communities. We are inspired by your bravery and will continue to pray for your safety.” Napolitano continues to work closely with San Gabriel Valley police departments on several important issues, including establishing a canine training facility in West Covina to service the San Gabriel Valley and partnering with LA County mental health providers to promote crisis intervention training for police officers. She also hosts an annual Congressional Prayer Breakfast as a tribute to local police, fire, and military personnel and their families. Napolitano is a member of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. # # #
05.16.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on recent reports that President Donald Trump shared highly classified information with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Russia’s ambassador to the United States Sergey Kislyak in a closed-door meeting in the Oval Office last week: “I am stunned and incensed by reports of President Trump’s latest careless action, and I join my colleagues in Congress demanding a full report of what exactly occurred in the meeting with Russian officials. Russia interfered in our 2016 Presidential election, is an enemy to democracy, and absolutely should not be given highly classified information. Equally distressing is President Trump standing by his decision, citing his absolute right to share this intelligence even without its source’s knowledge. This reckless behavior further reinforces the urgent need to establish an independent commission to investigate President Trump’s ties to Russia and find the truth. We call on the Republicans to join us, as our constituents are looking to Congress to step up and provide real leadership.” # # #
05.10.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s firing of FBI Director James Comey: “President Trump’s abrupt firing of FBI Director Comey, the very person who was investigating potential coordination between the Trump Campaign and Russian authorities in the 2016 Presidential election, is outrageous and deeply concerning. The manner and timing, two days before Director Comey was scheduled to testify before Congress, raises more questions and casts an even larger shadow over this administration. This is yet another firing of an administration official, following a dangerous pattern and lending itself to a cover-up. No number of firings can shield President Trump from the truth, and it is now more urgent than ever that Congress step in and provide oversight. I join Democrats and Republicans in Congress calling for an independent, bipartisan commission—removed from politics—to get to the truth of the matter. Such a commission would go a long way to ensure the protection of our democracy from foreign agents and restore public trust in the federal government. All Americans deserve the truth and a complete account of what happened." # # #
05.09.2017	IMGP9376.jpg (San Dimas, CA) On Saturday, May 6, 2017, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held an awards ceremony honoring the winners and all participants of the 2017 Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 32nd Congressional District at the Walker House in San Dimas. “Many congratulations to the winners and all young artists who submitted entries this year!” Napolitano said. “Thank you to all of the teachers and parents for encouraging our students, pushing them to achieve success inside and outside of the classroom. Our youngsters have amazing talents, and we must do all we can to recognize them in positive ways. To the City of San Dimas, thank you for welcoming us year after year and showcasing all of the artwork at the historic Walker House.” Millyna Liu, an 11th grader at Baldwin Park High School, won first place with her drawing, “Off in the Distance.” For the next year, Liu’s work will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building alongside other winning works of art from across the country. “It’s pretty overwhelming because I never won first place in an art contest before,” said Liu. “I want to thank Ms. Blume, my art teacher. She really supports me.” Other winners in attendance shared the same praise for their art teachers, reflected on the inspiration for their pieces, and one even expressed a desire to pursue an art-related career. “I want to study art in college and make it a profession,” said Eduardo Lopez, student at Sierra Vista High School. “It helps express my feelings and convey them on canvas.” Helen Zotos, art instructor of Sierra Vista High School, celebrated Lopez’s, and all of her students’ achievements. “I am super proud of Eduardo, a student who has never taken an art class before. This is his first time, so I am very proud he was able to complete the drawing with such success,” said Zotos. “What inspires me is helping my students find their passion, even if it is not in the arts.” Napolitano’s office received 98 art pieces from 12 high schools throughout the 32nd Congressional District, including Baldwin Park High School, Bonita High School, Duarte High School, El Monte High School, Gladstone High School, Mountain View High School, Nogales High School, Northview High School, San Dimas High School, Sierra Vista High School, South El Monte High School, and South Hills High School. Winners: First place: Millyna Liu, Baldwin Park High School. “Off in the Distance” Second place: Catherine Chow, South Hills High School. “The Mirror” Third place: Daniel Chan, Northview High School. “Untitled” Judges’ Choice: Stephanie Ramos, Northview High School. “Reincarnation” Judges’ Choice: Anggie Arivia, Mountain View High School. “The Mighty King of the Jungle (Tiger)” Judges’ Choice: Rebecca Luna, Bonita High School. “Mother Nature” Honorable Mention: Margaret Bartlett, Bonita High School. “My Mother’s Hands” Honorable Mention: Alondra Haro, Gladstone High School. “Cole” Honorable Mention: Theresa Nguyen, Gladstone High School. “First Date” Honorable Mention: Tam Do, Sierra Vista High School. “Glenda” Honorable Mention: Leslie Davila, Sierra Vista High School. “Marvel Comic Fan” Honorable Mention: Eduardo Lopez, Sierra Vista High School. “Horse” The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of the participating Congressional Districts, and their artwork is put on display for a year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher. PHOTOS: A gallery of images can be found here. First place: napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/1stPlace2017.jpg Second place: napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/2ndPlace2017.jpg Third Place: napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/3rdPlace2017.jpg # # #
05.04.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) voted against TrumpCare, issuing the following statement: “The Affordable Care Act extended health coverage, including lifesaving mental health services, to millions who were never able to get coverage before it became law, thanks largely to Medicaid expansion in California and 31 other states. It banned insurance companies from denying care due to pre-existing conditions, such as Bipolar disorder, Cancer, or Diabetes, giving peace of mind to San Gabriel Valley residents and millions nationwide. It is absolutely appalling that President Trump and House Republicans would now eliminate these protections and restore the worst industry practices, sending us back to the dark ages. I am infuriated by the result of the vote, yet I will continue to fight to increase health and mental health services for every man, woman, and child in this country. Thank you to all of my constituents who called, wrote, and contacted me online, sharing your personal stories and voicing your opposition to TrumpCare. This is so critical for the San Gabriel Valley, and I remain focused as we look to the Senate.” # # #
05.01.2017	Picture1_0.png (WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and John Katko (R-NY-24) co-hosted a bipartisan briefing on the benefits of collaborative care for children’s mental health, kicking off May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. “Our fight to end stigma starts with the youngest children in America, so from an early age they understand it is always okay to ask for help,” Rep. Napolitano said. “I am so grateful to Congressman Katko for his partnership and passion, and to all of our panelists for raising their voices on behalf of millions of children and families nationwide. We also thank those who joined us, near and far, for helping reduce stigma and bringing critical awareness for increased collaboration among doctors to effectively address children’s mental health needs. We must continue to coalesce our efforts toward our shared goal of ensuring access and affordability of these services for children from all socioeconomic levels, backgrounds, and ZIP codes.” “I was proud to join my colleague Rep. Napolitano today as we continue our efforts to improve access to pediatric mental health care,” said Rep. John Katko. “At home in Central New York, our Mental Health Task Force recently released a comprehensive report detailing the need to improve regional adolescent mental health care. In Congress, I’ll continue to fight for policies to improve early identification of behavioral and mental health issues among children, expand innovative and unique treatment practices, and incentivize healthcare providers to pursue careers in mental health care. Today, we had an excellent discussion on these issues and I thank our panelists for joining us in the fight to strengthen mental health care across this country.” According to the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), half of all mental illnesses begin by age 14 and 75% by age 24. Yet, there are long delays from the onset of symptoms to intervention. There are also many children, youth and young adults who are unable to access effective services and support. Panelists at the briefing included Gregory K. Fritz, M.D., Professor and Director of Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry & Vice Chair of the Dept. of Psychiatry and Human Behavior at the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Academic Director of E. P. Bradley Hospital, and President of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry (AACAP); Lee Beers, M.D., Medical Director for Municipal & Regional Affairs of Child Health Advocacy Institute at Children’s National Health System, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics at George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences; Phoebe Lisle, a youth with lived experience; and Kit Lisle, father of Phoebe and producer for This is My Brave. They examined the lack of access to specialized care many young children and adolescents experience when living with mental illness and highlighted ways to address those gaps through collaborative care. “Integrated care is the single most powerful force we have to change and improve the mental health of children in the United States,” said Dr. Fritz. “Our biggest obstacle is lack of information and education. A day like today which brings together a diverse group of people, like advocates, families, and staffers can do a lot for integrated care. I wish it happened every week.” “Involving pediatricians in mental health services to increase access for children and families really has the potential to have enormous impact but doesn’t yet have the support and infrastructure behind it to be fully implemented across the country,” said Dr. Beers. “This type of briefing helps raise awareness and support for services, and bring attention to a very important and needed issue as well as the value of the collaboration between pediatricians and mental health providers in improving care for children and families. “My daughter Phoebe is fortunate enough to have a primary care physician and a number of specialists who are collaborating, coordinating, and integrating their care, but we haven’t always had that,” said Kit Lisle. “We have that today because we are paying for it out of pocket, paying for them to spend the time communicating. This is not right. Not everybody has access to the funds to make sure their specialists and primary care physicians are actually coordinating with one another. We are sharing our personal story in the hopes it will bring needed reform.” “I just want every young person like me to be able to have the same resources and care that I continue to receive,” said Phoebe Lisle. “There shouldn’t be a gap between insurance-funded and privately-funded doctors. All children in need must have the same coverage available to them, regardless of their parents’ ability to pay for those costs.” Today’s briefing was attended by more than 60 mental health advocates and congressional staff. A recording of the livestreamed video can be viewed here. Since 1949, May has been observed as National Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when advocates and activists across the country draw attention to the mental health issues that affect as many as one in four Americans. “Throughout May we will continue to focus on the importance of mental health, wear lime green to show support, and we encourage all to join us,” Napolitano added. Napolitano is the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she promotes access to mental health for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans and seniors, and increased mental health coverage for all. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. # # #
04.27.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) blasted President Donald Trump’s executive order subjecting the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument to review, after more than a decade of meetings with local stakeholders were held and multiple public comment periods were conducted prior to its creation, repudiating the President’s claim that designations are done without local input. “Efforts to protect the San Gabriel Mountains have always and will continue to be transparent,” Napolitano said. “If the President is committed to going through with this futile review process, then I encourage him and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke to meet with the local San Gabriel Valley stakeholders who spent more a decade pursuing President Obama’s designation which ultimately came in October 2014. Without their commitment to preserving recreation for future generations, there would be limited local input into the current management of the San Gabriels.” The executive order, “Review of Designations Under the Antiquities Act,” conducts a review of all presidential monument designations since 1996 that cover more than 100,000 acres, which includes the 350,000-acre area protected by the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument. President Trump justified issuing the order, stating incorrectly that monument designations are massive federal land grabs. “It is a real shame that discussion on our natural treasures, like the San Gabriel Mountains, has now devolved into political bickering,” Napolitano continued. “Before designation the mountains were part of the federally-run Angeles National Forest. It is irresponsible and flat-out wrong to say national monument designations are massive federal land grabs.” The San Gabriel Mountains attract millions of visitors each year and provide some of the only outdoor recreational options for the densely populated Los Angeles region. The monument designation aimed to preserve miles of streams and hiking trails for people to enjoy for decades. Increased federal funding and private donations are helping to clean up and restore green space. “Monument designation has helped San Gabriel Valley communities leverage additional federal dollars for critically needed recreation, trail maintenance, trash collection, and fire prevention,” Napolitano added. “Seeing that three major fires—the 2009 Station Fire, the 2014 Colby Fire, and the 2015 Cabin Fire—have threatened our local communities, we sure hope President Trump does not cut funding.” # # #
04.26.2017	Picture1.png (WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) welcomed Father Michael “Mike” Gutiérrez to deliver the opening prayer at the U.S. House of Representatives. “We are so blessed to have Father Mike lead the House of Representatives in prayer today,” Napolitano said. “For the past four years, Father Mike has generously opened his parish hall to host our annual immigration clinic. He is not afraid to speak truth to power, encouraging activism on issues that impact our local communities. May God continue to bless you and your ministry, Father Mike.” Each year, Members of Congress can recommend someone from their congressional district to serve as guest pastor of the House for a day. Father Gutiérrez was selected to be a guest chaplain at the request of Congressman Napolitano. Father Gutiérrez has been a Catholic diocesan priest for 24 years and is currently serving as pastor of St. John the Baptist Catholic Church in Baldwin Park, California, where he leads a parish of 10,000 families. His full prayer can be viewed here. # # #
04.25.2017	(EL MONTE, CA) On Friday, April 21, 2017, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano honored the 2017 “Unsung Heroines,” Women of the Year for exemplary service at an awards ceremony at the Grace T. Black Auditorium in El Monte. “Out of the goodness of their hearts, these unsung heroines serve cities, schools, churches, nonprofits, and other organizations that are vital to our San Gabriel Valley communities,” Napolitano said. “They do so without expecting praise, which is why we attempt to recognize a few of the countless, deserving volunteers each year. We honor their selfless gifts of time, labor, and energy, and we thank all of their families who offer them support and encouragement.” 21 women received the award. Each woman’s name was submitted by her volunteer organization or community group that felt her contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked the women personally. “I find great satisfaction in supporting my city and elected officials in building the vision for our community and then watching that vision come to fruition,” said Veronica Cole of the Azusa Police Department. “It is something that I personally find very rewarding because my efforts can positively impact the future environment where my kids are growing up. I enjoy partnering with those in my city who are working to provide a safe, educational and healthy place to live.” “It was an amazing feeling to be honored as a Woman of the Year by Congresswoman Napolitano,” said Patti Tris of Interfaith Council. “She and her staff put together a beautiful awards ceremony and luncheon, and it was especially awesome to personally meet my Congresswoman!” “It was a privilege and honor to receive this award and to share it with the 20 other Unsung Heroines who have done so much for their communities,” said Donna Redman of the City of La Verne. “My 17-year-old daughter was in attendance and was inspired by these women and their selfless acts of volunteerism. My hope is that she will continue the tradition of giving back and will carry it forward into the next generation.” "I would like to thank the Chamber for nominating me as a Woman of the Year,” said Theresa Velasco of the El Monte/South El Monte Chamber of Commerce. “I am extremely grateful and honored to receive this award from Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, although people who volunteer do not expect to be rewarded. The smiles and the thanks we receive are rewards enough for us. May we continue to work together and support each other as have all the women recognized today. This is what makes our community a better place to live in and helps our children to grow into good citizens.” The 2017 Women of the Year: Rosa Atempa – Taking Responsibility and Control (T.R.A.C.) Neighborhood Watch Mercedes Castro – Azusa Recreation and Family Services Veronica Cole – Azusa Police Department Donna Crippen – Mayor Andre Quintero, City of El Monte Odette Cuccaro – Monrovia Chamber of Commerce Frances Divine – City of La Verne – Community Services Department Trudy Garnier – Councilmember Cruz Baca / Baldwin Park Woman’s Club Connie Garrison – Foothill Unity Center, Inc. Julie Gentile – Councilmember Becky Shevlin, City of Monrovia Jocelyn Lopez – California Mental Health Connection Karlene Morris – Taylor House in West Covina Lorraine O’Brien – Baldwin Park Historical Society Donna Redman – Mayor Don Kendrick, City of La Verne Josie Rivera – Baldwin Park Adult and Community Education Martha Rund – Monrovia Historic Preservation Group (MOHPG) Dorothy Smith – Councilmember Liz Reilly, City of Duarte LaShonda Spencer, M.D. – Foothill Alumnae Chapter, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Helen Storland – Glendora Public Library and Board of Library Trustees Esperanza “Tita” Tigno – St. John the Baptist Catholic Church Patti Tris – Interfaith Council Theresa “Tess” Velasco – El Monte/South El Monte Chamber of Commerce # # #
04.18.2017	(EL MONTE, CA) On Friday, April 14, 2017, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held a successful “Know Your Rights” Town Hall to inform immigrants and citizens of their constitutional rights and protections, despite loud protests by anti-immigrant activists. “The President’s new policies on immigration are fueling anti-immigrant sentiment, which is raising uncertainty, instilling fear, and ultimately making our San Gabriel Valley communities less safe,” Napolitano said. "Our hope is that after our town hall, residents will better understand their rights and be better equipped with the knowledge they need to protect themselves, their friends, and their families. We thank all those who attended and the City of El Monte for partnering with AILA, Catholic Charities, and CHIRLA on this critical event. Some individuals chose to attend with the goal of disrupting the program and inciting hysteria, but we were not intimidated. We remain firmly committed to protecting the rights of all community members.” Nearly 200 people attended Friday’s town hall event, which was free to the public and held at El Monte’s Grace T. Black Auditorium. Undeterred by disruptions, El Monte Mayor Andre Quintero moderated the event. “I’m grateful to Congresswoman Napolitano for holding this informational town hall,” said Mayor Quintero. “She has consistently been an advocate for immigrants and understands that we are a stronger nation when we embrace our immigrant community.” Speakers from AILA (American Immigration Lawyers Association), Catholic Charities, and CHIRLA (Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles) gave presentations that outlined the basic constitutional rights and protections afforded to all people in America, explained how to handle an encounter with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), and later answered specific questions from the audience. “Rights to people in the United States apply to everyone in the United States, regardless of your immigration status” said Alan Diamante of AILA. “We are here today to remind you that there are people in your city, in your churches, and in your communities who want to help you.” “There is still a lot of fraud committed by notaries,” warned Efrain Villa of Catholic Charities. “In other countries, notaries are immigration specialists, but in our country, this is not the case. Be careful!” “Thank you for this opportunity to bring everybody together. These are issues that affect everybody’s life,” said Miriam Mesa of CHIRLA. “Information and education are the most powerful tools we have within our grasp. Knowing what to do in the event an ICE officer shows up at your door could save you and your family.” The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has created a printable “Know Your Rights” booklet in English and Spanish. For the English version, click here: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/KnowYourRights.jpg. Para ver la versión en español, oprima aquí: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/ConozcaSusDerechos.jpg. # # #
04.10.2017	(EL MONTE, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement after this morning’s tragic shooting at North Park Elementary School in San Bernardino: “We cannot begin to imagine the horror experienced by the students, parents, teachers, administrators, and staff at North Park Elementary as a result of today’s shooting. We grieve with the family, students, and colleagues of the teacher who was killed and send our immediate prayers for healing to the students who were critically wounded. Additional counseling and supportive mental health services should be made available for all children, their families, first responders, and the entire San Bernardino community. Guns do not belong anywhere near schools, at any grade level, and we must do all we can to ensure our classrooms are safe environments for learning and growth. There are still many unanswered questions from today’s tragedy, but we cannot just talk about how to prevent gun violence; we must act.” Napolitano serves as a Vice Chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. She was appointed to the Task Force following the tragic shooting in Newtown, CT in 2012 to address mental health as a component of gun violence prevention. Napolitano is also the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus.If you or someone you know is experiencing emotional distress, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline is 1-800-985-5990. # # #
03.28.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) highlighted the successful Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Brownfields program, which provides grants and technical assistance to assess, clean up, and sustainably reuse contaminated properties throughout the United States, at a House Transportation Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee hearing. “Since its inception, the Brownfields program has leveraged more than 122,800 jobs and over $23.6 billion in cleanup and redevelopment funding,” Napolitano said. “Communities, like Rialto, California, have assessed more than 26,400 properties, cleaned up more than 1,500 sites, and have made 66,800 acres ready for reuse. For every $1 of brownfield funding, more than $16 of other public and private dollars are leveraged, and more than 8 jobs are leveraged for every $100,000 of EPA brownfields funds expended.” Mayor Deborah Robertson of Rialto, California, a witness at today’s hearing, noted that as a partnership between the city, state, and EPA, the Brownfields program has proven critical to economic revitalization and job growth in Rialto and across the country. Mayor Robertson’s and other mayors’ accounts are why Napolitano and her colleagues are troubled by the Trump administration’s plans to eliminate nearly 40 separate programs at EPA, including the Brownfields program. “The administration’s reluctance to publicly support the Brownfields program is puzzling,” Napolitano continued. “This program’s successes have been hindered by a lack of funds. By EPA’s own estimates, over the past five years, funding deficiencies have caused 1,676 viable proposals to go unfunded. These sites are not only sitting idle and unproductive, but we are missing out on the return on investment that these sites could realize. In fact, had these 1,676 proposals received funding, it is estimated that those grants would have leveraged approximately 54,680 jobs and over $10.3 billion in public and private financing. If this is the success rate of an underfunded program, imagine the potential economic impact and potential for job creation that could come from fully funding the program.” Napolitano joined her colleagues on the House Transportation Committee and Energy and Commerce Committee in sending a letter to EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt on March 10, seeking clarification as to whether the Trump administration will support or eliminate the Brownfields program. As of today’s hearing, EPA has sent no response. Napolitano is an original cosponsor of legislation introduced today to reauthorize and improve the Brownfields program. “This is a program that has received bipartisan support in the past, and I hope it will continue receiving bipartisan support in the future. The program’s success speaks for itself,” Napolitano added. Napolitano is the highest-ranking California member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure where she currently serves as the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which oversees EPA’s Clean Water Act and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water programs. # # #
03.28.2017	(WASHINGTON, DC) Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Rob Wittman (R-VA-01), members of the House Natural Resources Committee, have reintroduced the Water Resources Research Amendments Act (H.R. 1663) to extend a Federal-State partnership aimed at addressing state and regional water problems, promoting distribution and application of research results, and providing training and practical experience for water-related scientists and engineers. “Whether California or Virginia, all of our states are facing water challenges that demand the newest scientific research and training methods,” Napolitano said. “Our bipartisan bill will boost these efforts, building on the strides San Gabriel Valley-based water scientists, engineers, and agencies have made in expanding Southern California’s water portfolio. I am proud to again partner with Congressman Wittman in putting forward legislation that will grow our water workforce while affirming the federal government’s partnership with states to solve our greatest challenges.” “We need to give states and local governments the best information available when it comes to their water supply and water quality,” Rep. Wittman said. “The water resources research institutes find innovative solutions to local water challenges, allowing states to address those challenges using methods most appropriate for them. This grant matching program has been instrumental, for example, in efforts across Mid-Atlantic states and in the Commonwealth to keep the Chesapeake Bay and our other water resources clean. Its localized approach has resulted in the development of urban storm water treatment and improved roadway design to address specific water quality and scarcity issues in the Bay and across the United States.” H.R. 1663 would authorize $9,000,000 annually over five years for grants to water resources research institutes and require two-to-one matching with non-federal funds. It would also promote exploration of new ideas, expand research to reduce energy consumption, and bolster reporting and accountability requirements. “The Water Resources Research program leverages federal support with other funds, often in excess of ten to one, resulting in a great investment for the taxpayers, students and the public,” Napolitano added. “It’s a great partnership that makes fiscal and scientific sense.” Napolitano continues to facilitate dialogue between all sectors in developing a sustainable water future for Southern California. She is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and the former top Democrat of the House Natural Resources Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee. # # #
03.24.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement after House Republicans canceled a vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “This is an enormous victory for thousands of San Gabriel Valley residents and all Californians, as well as millions of Americans. Thank you to all of my constituents who called, wrote, and shared their stories; your voices matter. We must now work together to improve our health care system for all.” # # #
03.16.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) rejected President Donald Trump’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2018, issuing the following statement: “In gutting the EPA and firing over 3,000 employees who work to remove toxins from our air, ground, and water, President Trump is risking the health of the public and our planet. EPA’s cleanup of Superfund sites has helped mitigate groundwater contamination of our San Gabriel Basin for nearly 40 years, and we still have a long way to go. Thanks to the EPA, even with more residents, vehicles, and industry, we have cleaner air in LA County than we did decades ago. “Severe cuts to HUD, including the elimination of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, is a slap in the face to hardworking San Gabriel Valley families, already burdened with the scarcity of affordable housing. Cities like West Covina and Baldwin Park have benefitted greatly from CDBG funds, which sustain antipoverty programs, public infrastructure, housing services, and fire and police departments. “It is appalling that Trump, who claims to be in favor of rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, would slash our federal investment in transportation. His proposal to strike funding for new transit projects and cutting $499 million from the TIGER grant program will make our infrastructure systems less safe and less reliable. Agencies like LA Metro, Foothill Transit, and Metrolink and their riders would be hit hard by Trump’s budget cuts. “My colleagues and I will review the President’s full budget request when we receive it, but we will not tolerate a budget that seeks to eliminate whole agencies and reduce Cabinet-level departments to a level where they can barely function. It is insulting to the millions of taxpayers who trust their government to protect their best interests. I stand with my constituents and firmly reject President Trump’s budget proposal.” # # #
03.10.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), denounced President Donald Trump’s and House Republicans’ bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “One of the Affordable Care Act’s biggest successes was increasing mental health services for all people through mental health parity protections and Medicaid expansion,” Napolitano said in a floor statement. “The GOP ‘Pay More For Less’ bill cuts taxes on the wealthy at the expense of those who can least afford to pay for their health coverage, like low-income families. 1 in 5 of Medicaid’s 70 million beneficiaries have a mental health or substance use disorder, and reports show more services are needed, especially for children. The bill would hurt those people by eliminating Medicaid expansion and gutting mental health services for this group, including the nearly 60,000 now covered in my district. I strongly oppose this repeal effort and urge our Republican colleagues to work with us to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, so more Americans have access to lifesaving care.” Background: After listening to input from mental health professionals and advocates at her local Mental Health Consortium meetings, Napolitano inserted provisions in the ACA to end discriminatory practices by insurance companies and make mental health an essential part of basic coverage, within the Essential Benefits Package. Now mental health and substance use disorders are covered for all recipients of health coverage under the ACA, equal to other medical illnesses such as diabetes, asthma, and high blood pressure. The Republicans’ repeal bill, which passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee yesterday, would retain the Essential Benefits Package for Americans receiving coverage through a private insurer but would phase out these protections for those in 31 states who have gained coverage through the successful Medicaid expansion of the ACA, most notably, residents of Los Angeles County, home to the highest number of people who have benefitted from this expansion in the country. This change would take effect after 2020, when a new maximum reimbursement cap per enrollee would be implemented. If a population exceeds the caps the state will be forced to find the extra money. Medicaid is the country’s largest payer of mental health services. Napolitano is the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she promotes access to mental health for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans and seniors, and increased mental health coverage for all.If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
03.09.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, called for renewed federal commitment to water-related infrastructure at the Subcommittee’s first hearing of the 115th Congress. “I am pleased that our first hearing focuses on an area where we should find common ground – the need for increased investment in our nation’s water-related infrastructure – especially Federal investment,” Napolitano said in her opening statement. “Whether the issue is crumbling dams and levees, outdated sewers and stormwater conveyances, inefficient navigation corridors, or large-scale ecosystem restoration authorities – I am certain that every member in this room can point to a water-related challenge facing their constituents at home.” Ranking Member Napolitano welcomed new Subcommittee Chairman, Rep. Garret Graves, and pledged to work together in a bipartisan fashion to assist communities in addressing their local water resources needs and adapting to a changing world. Napolitano also referenced legislation she and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio will be reintroducing soon, which will reauthorize the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, a fund which President Trump has committed to tripling. “San Gabriel Valley communities want to do the right thing. They want to provide our citizens with safe, reliable, and affordable water and wastewater services – but they cannot do it alone,” Napolitano continued. “We need to address the very-real affordability concerns raised by our communities in a way that does not weaken Clean Water Act protections, and ensures our neighborhoods have access to clean, safe, and reliable waters, and healthy local environments.” Napolitano is the highest-ranking California member of the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure where she currently serves as the top Democrat on the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which oversees EPA’s Clean Water Act and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water programs. # # #
03.06.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) condemned President Donald Trump’s new executive order that bans entry into the United States from six predominantly Muslim nations and suspends the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for 120 days, issuing the following statement: “Despite some rephrasing and including certain exceptions, President Trump’s new executive order is just like his original Muslim ban; un-American, unconstitutional, and dangerous. It sends the same wrong, ugly message to the rest of the world, fueling anti-American sentiment and giving ammunition to our enemies. It also spreads false premises about the insecurity of our refugee system, when the reality is that refugees seeking admission to the U.S. are heavily screened, undergoing 18 to 24 months of vetting by multiple law enforcement and intelligence agencies. “We will not turn our backs on those fleeing violence and humanitarian crises. Our nation was built on the principles of religious tolerance and welcoming the stranger, and we refuse to allow President Trump to redefine our core American values. We call on the president to rescind this order and work with us to protect our country, without discriminating against groups of people based on nationality or religion.” # # #
03.02.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) called on Attorney General Jeff Sessions to resign following reports that he lied under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirmation hearings about his communications with Russian government officials, issuing the following statement: “In lying under oath, Jeff Sessions has lost credibility and the American people’s trust. The reports further validate the serious concerns many Americans had with his nomination, and he is now the second senior Trump administration official who hid communications he had with Russia during the campaign. I join the resounding calls of Americans demanding he immediately resign, as he is no longer fit to serve as our attorney general. “I also call upon the House Republican Leadership to bring up H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, for a vote. H.R. 356 would create a commission to investigate foreign interference in the 2016 election. It is time to put country above politics.” # # #
02.28.2017	DSC_0177.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) stood with her fellow House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force colleagues as well as first responders from across the country at a press conference in strong opposition to Republican efforts to undermine public safety, ahead of President Donald Trump’s Address to a Joint Session of Congress. Napolitano was accompanied by Fire Captain Andy Doyle, a firefighter from Los Angeles County, who is also her guest for tonight’s Joint Session. “Besides the police, firefighters and other first responders are directly affected by loose gun laws. They treat gun victims and become targeted themselves,” Napolitano said. “I have asked my local police departments to comment on the proposed gun bills, and so far, we have received unanimous opposition to concealed carry reciprocity and gun silencers. We must support local efforts to combat gun violence, including public education, gang diversion programs, and gun buy-backs. The NRA is blocking reasonable measures to prevent gun violence, but you can be sure we will continue to fight against any effort which threatens the safety of our communities and first responders.” President Trump and House Republicans are promoting two bills that would endanger communities in Southern California and across the nation. H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, would mandate the ability to transport firearms for use across state lines. H.R. 367, the Hearing Protection Act, would deregulate gun silencers. Napolitano has solicited input from San Gabriel Valley police departments and LA County Sheriffs in her district, and initial feedback shows concerns that both proposals would imperil first responders and undermine state laws. “Why would we want another tool to be put in the hands of people who mean harm, to harm police officers? That’s all this is for,” said Captain Doyle. “When we respond with police or before police, we’ll now be put in more harm’s way with silencers, because we won’t know where it’s coming from. As a new firefighter, I responded to a call where someone was shot, and the police had to come out because they knew where the shooter was and we couldn’t quite find them. They protected us. Now that won’t happen. They’ll have no idea where the person is shooting from, we can’t rush in and protect anybody. There’s only one reason for a silencer; not for hearing protection.” The full press conference can be viewed here: https://www.facebook.com/RepMikeThompson/videos/10154464138465748/. # # #
02.10.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) applauded the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals' unanimous decision refusing to lift the nationwide halt on President Trump’s executive order banning refugees and citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries, which are some of the most vetted nations in the world. “The Ninth Circuit’s unanimous decision is a victory for all of the people and their families who were affected by President Trump’s unconstitutional ban and everyone who has been fighting with us, pressuring the president to withdraw this ban which makes us less safe," Napolitano said. “Liberty and justice also prevailed last night, proving our system of checks and balances cannot be shaken. We implore the president to respect our judicial system and eliminate this inhumane ban once and for all.” # # #
02.08.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), Rodney Davis (R-IL-13), and Darin LaHood (R-IL-18) announced the introduction of two bipartisan bills to commemorate the historical significance of Route 66: H.R. 66, which creates a Commission to recommend improvements and activities to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Route 66 in 2026, and H.R. 801, which establishes Route 66 as a National Historic Trail. “Route 66 runs east to west through my entire district and is an integral part of the San Gabriel Valley’s culture and economy,” Napolitano said. “Our local restaurants, shops, and other businesses, like so many others dotting the interstate from the heartland to the west coast, provide rest breaks for travelers, allowing them to sample the local flavors of our communities that are proud to be connected by the iconic road. As we begin looking to the centennial, I am proud to partner with my Illinois colleagues, Congressmen Davis and LaHood, to revitalize and preserve Route 66 for future generations.” “I am proud to have America’s most iconic road run through the middle of my district and it’s important we celebrate its history,” said Davis. “We represent different parts of the country and we’re from different political parties but we can all relate to the significance of Route 66. From providing thousands of jobs to unemployed workers during the Great Depression to transporting equipment and supplies for World War II to becoming a symbol of freedom and independence in the 1950s, Route 66 has been the ‘road to opportunity’ for millions of Americans throughout our history. I look forward to celebrating its 100th anniversary in 2026.” “Spanning nearly a century, Route 66 has been a crucial transportation artery traveling through the heartland of America. The Mother Road has provided jobs and opportunities and been a powerful economic development tool for communities throughout Illinois and every state it runs through, as well as providing timeless memories for those traveling cross country. It is time it receives the national recognition it deserves,” stated LaHood. “Designating Route 66 as a National Historic Trail would provide this highway with a permanent program to preserve, promote, and economically develop it. I am excited to partner with Rep. Davis and Rep. Napolitano to designate Route 66 a National Historic Trail and commence its centennial celebration.” Route 66 runs through the cities of La Verne, San Dimas, Glendora, Azusa, Duarte, and Monrovia, known in most of Napolitano’s district as Foothill Boulevard and Huntington Drive. The City of Monrovia has plans to improve Route 66’s infrastructure in the near future. “National Historic Trail designation for Route 66 would bring annual federal dollars for rehabilitation and improvement,” Napolitano added. “We would gladly welcome this new funding to improve our portion of Route 66, but in the meantime, we look forward to working with our cities and local stakeholders on the preservation of artifacts, memorabilia, and other historical items to highlight as we prepare to celebrate 100 years.” Napolitano coauthored both pieces of legislation with Davis, a fellow House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee member, and LaHood, a colleague of hers on the House Natural Resources Committee. Napolitano is the highest-ranking California member of both committees. Details of H.R. 66: · Creates a 19-member Commission to recommend activities to commemorate the 100th anniversary of Route 66 in 2026. · Directs the Commission to host a conference on the U.S. Numbered Highway System, marking its 100-year anniversary. · Directs the Department of Transportation, in consultation with governors of the eight states through which 66 passes, to develop a plan on the preservation needs of Route 66. Details of H.R. 801: · Establishing a federal designation of Route 66 as a National Historic Trail. # # #
02.07.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) issued the following statement after receiving the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Notice of Intent to Grant Easement for the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline: “This is a sad day for the Native American community and the environment. The Corps made a decision to stop this three months ago in order to conduct an Environmental Impact Study. Forced by the Trump administration, the Corps has now made a complete 180, suspending the study before completion. Ignoring science and sound research is a dangerous pattern we have seen early in this administration, and this latest example could mean disastrous consequences for the Standing Rock Sioux and our public health. Instead of catering to Big Oil, our priority must be to ensure the availability of clean and safe drinking water to the tribes and other downstream communities. Native Americans hold the original water rights in this country, and we must respect them and their sacred ground.” Napolitano is the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. # # #
01.29.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano denounced President Donald Trump’s recent executive order that suspended entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely, and blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of several predominantly Muslim countries, issuing the following statement: “It seems President Trump forgets he also comes from a family of immigrants. Did he ever think what if this had happened to his family? Barring entry to the United States based on religion or religious heritage is not only criminal, it is unconstitutional and un-American. This abhorrent view makes us less safe, adds fuel to the propaganda our enemies are using as a recruitment tool, and should be condemned by all. “This impulsive decision was not thought-out or properly vetted, and it has created much hurt, anguish, and confusion. Proper coordination between agencies and advanced notice given to people involved could have prevented individuals from being detained at ports of entry the last two days. “Amid such darkness, we are inspired by the peaceful demonstrations held at LAX and airports across the country, which reflect our true American values of tolerance and love. We welcome refugees who have fled unimaginable violence and adversity; we don’t turn our backs on them. President Trump’s anti-immigrant polices are contrary to who we are as Americans, and we will do everything we can to stop them.” # # #
01.25.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano condemned President Donald Trump’s executive orders that would build an American taxpayer-funded border wall, increase funding for detention centers on the border, and block federal funding to sanctuary cities, issuing the following statement: “Today’s actions by President Trump, while not surprising, are the wrong direction and an attack on our nation, which was built by immigrants. He is proving in his first week that he is not a leader who cares about America’s people. Targeting immigrant and refugee communities is not going to solve our problems, and it will hurt our economy. “We need policies that embrace our values of acceptance and love of country, not ones that seek to divide us by spreading fear and hate. We stand united against these anti-immigrant policies, will do everything we can to protect immigrant families, and we will fight to deliver comprehensive immigration reform once and for all.” # # #
01.24.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano proudly announced her reelection to serve as the Ranking Democratic Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and the rest of her committee assignments for the 115th Congress. “I am pleased to continue to help lead our Subcommittee’s critical work to ensure affordable, clean water for San Gabriel Valley residents and all Americans,” Napolitano said. “We remain focused on protecting clean water in our communities so we do not have a Flint, Michigan-type crisis in LA County or anywhere else, and partnering with the Army Corps to capture more water and provide flood control, which saves money and precious drops of water for our San Gabriel Valley cities. Historic drought, massive storms, and other threats posed by climate change demand a comprehensive approach to solve our water problems, which is why we must continue to expand our water portfolio regionally and nationally. I congratulate Subcommittee Chairman Garret Graves and look forward to working together to address our nation’s most pressing water infrastructure needs.” With jurisdiction over the EPA Clean Water Act programs, Napolitano will continue to encourage EPA and sanitation agencies to find ways to recycle water for irrigation use and groundwater replenishment. Ranking Member Napolitano’s subcommittee also has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and she will continue her work with the Corps, local flood control districts, and water agencies to capture more water in flood control reservoirs, which is a major issue at Santa Fe Dam in her district and the bordering Whittier Narrows Dam; and support both the Los Angeles River Revitalization Plan and improvements to the San Gabriel River with environmental restoration projects and recreational opportunities, such as bikeways, parks, and swimming areas. In addition to retaining her position on the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, Napolitano will continue to serve on the Transportation Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, and she was for the first time appointed to serve on the Aviation Subcommittee and the Economic Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management Subcommittee. She is the highest-ranking Hispanic member and California Democratic member of the Committee.Napolitano continues to serve on the House Natural Resources Committee, which she has been on her entire time in Congress. She will sit on the Subcommittee on Water, Power, and Oceans where she was Ranking Member in the 112th and 113th Congresses after chairing the panel in the 110th and 111th Congresses. The Subcommittee has jurisdiction over water supply projects, hydroelectric power, and interstate water issues. She is the highest-ranking female Hispanic member as well as the highest-ranking California member of the Committee. Napolitano is one of only two members of Congress who serve on the two subcommittees that oversee the major water programs of the federal government. # # #
01.19.2017	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on her decision to not attend the inauguration: “Over the past two months my office has received countless phone calls, emails, and other messages voicing concerns about President-elect Donald Trump and the individuals he is choosing for his Cabinet. Reactions from middle school and high school students include suicidal thoughts as they worry about their future and fear for the safety of their families. Hearing their concerns, as well as those from many other constituents, I will continue to meet this week with residents who hold a wide range of views on our incoming president to work together to help solve the San Gabriel Valley’s toughest challenges. “I respect the office of the presidency, but I do not respect the person about to enter it. Mr. Trump’s comments throughout his campaign and since election day have been very insulting to women, Latinos and other minority communities, and persons with disabilities, and his recent attacks on civil rights hero, Congressman John Lewis, are not only unsettling but uncalled for. “Thank you to constituents who have called, emailed, and shared thoughts on my decision to not attend the inauguration. It is my great privilege and honor to serve you as your member of Congress, and I will continue to fight for the rights of all the people in my district. I am always open to hearing your concerns.” # # #
01.13.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano praised the mental health successes of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), defending the health law from Republicans’ plan to repeal it. “One of President Obama’s most critical successes has been increased mental health services for all,” Napolitano said in a floor speech. “Because of the ACA or Obamacare, over 48 million Americans are now covered by mental health and parity laws, and insurance companies can no longer deny coverage for patients needing these lifesaving services. We do need tougher enforcement on this, but I am proud of the hard work our mental health consortium did to ensure these protections for San Gabriel Valley residents and all Americans. Parity is working. It has reduced stigma and led to higher numbers seeking treatment for mental health needs.” After listening to input from mental health professionals and advocates at her local Mental Health Consortium meetings, Napolitano inserted provisions in the 2010 health law to end discriminatory practices by insurance companies and make mental health an essential part of basic coverage. Now mental health and substance use disorders are covered equal to other medical illnesses such as diabetes, asthma, and high blood pressure. “Last month bipartisan reforms to strengthen mental health and substance abuse services were signed into law,” Napolitano added. “Repealing the ACA as my Republican colleagues want to do would harm these important advances. We must move mental health forward, not back.” Napolitano is the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she promotes access to mental health for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans and seniors, and increased mental health coverage for all. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
01.09.2017	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) marked National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, releasing the following statement: “Today we thank all the law enforcement officers in our San Gabriel Valley and across this country who put their lives on the line each day to serve and protect us. These heroes and their families deserve our support and appreciation, which is why I am proud to join my Law Enforcement Caucus colleagues in displaying a blue light in the window of my DC office today. Let us all take a moment to show our gratitude for the brave men and women who work every day to make our neighborhoods safer.” Napolitano continues to work closely with San Gabriel Valley police departments on several important issues, including establishing a canine training facility in West Covina to service the San Gabriel Valley and partnering with LA County mental health providers to promote crisis intervention training for police officers. She also hosts an annual Congressional Prayer Breakfast as a tribute to local police, fire, and military personnel and their families. Napolitano is a member of the Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus. # # #
01.03.2017	U.S. Representative Grace Napolitano was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker Paul Ryan on January 3rd, 2017. The Honorable Grace Napolitano was elected to serve as representative of California’s 32nd Congressional District. Representative Grace Napolitano was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.03.2017	A photo of the 115th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.03.2017	The First Session of the 115th United States Congress commences on January 3rd, 2017. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.03.2017	Body text goes here. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
01.03.2017	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. library-tulips.jpg Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. testdoc1.doc testdoc1.doc Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. testdoc2.doc testdoc2.doc Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Stars & Stripes Video of Stars &amp;amp; Stripes Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. ◄ Lincoln Memorial, Washington [HD] ► Video of ◄ Lincoln Memorial, Washington [HD] ► Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis.
12.08.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), delivered the following remarks on the House Floor during consideration of S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act, a critical water infrastructure and jobs bill for Southern California: Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Water Resources Development Act. I strongly support the bipartisan work done by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on the Army Corps provisions that create policy and authorize projects around the country for flood damage reduction, ecosystem restoration, water supply, recreation, and navigation. I am particularly appreciative that this bill authorizes the Los Angeles River project which will rejuvenate the river by improving wildlife habitat and creating recreational opportunities for Southern California residents. I thank Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, and Chairman Gibbs for working with me and staff to include multiple provisions that will improve water supply and local collaboration at Army Corps facilities. These provisions include: Providing more water supply to local communities by requiring the Corps to capture more water for groundwater replenishment, especially at dams in Los Angeles County; Promoting local and private sector combined efforts to remove sediment from Corps dams and improve water supply, which will benefit all dams including Santa Fe Dam in my district; Requiring the Corps to work more collaboratively with local communities on sharing water data and improving watershed management; and Extending donor port provisions in current law important to the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, and the Southern California economy. I also support the provisions in this bill that will provide assistance to the drinking water crisis in Flint, MI and other areas of the Country including California, although we should be investing more in our outdated drinking water infrastructure. I disagree with the leadership’s decision to add a California water provision to WRDA at the last minute. This provision should have been addressed as its own legislation and not attached to the traditionally bipartisan WRDA bill that so many Members including Sen. Boxer have worked so hard on. If I had been consulted on this provision, I would have strongly advocated for more than $50 million for Title XVI water recycling and $100 million for WaterSMART, as these programs are the most cost effective at addressing our drought crisis. I want to thank local water agencies including the Upper San Gabriel Valley Municipal Water District, the Three Valleys Municipal Water District, the San Gabriel Valley Water Association, and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California that have worked with my office on this bill throughout the process, and overwhelmingly support WRDA. I greatly respect and recognize that there are Members who disagree on final passage based on the needs of their own districts and constituents. S. 612 was passed by the House today with large bipartisan support by a vote of 360 to 61. Napolitano is the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the EPA Clean Water Act Programs. # # #
12.06.2016	(Washington, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) attended the swearing-in ceremonies for newly elected Los Angeles County Supervisors, Kathryn Barger (5th District) and Janice Hahn (4th District), releasing the following congratulatory statement: “The County is very fortunate to have such a high caliber person as Kathryn Barger to represent it on the Board of Supervisors. She has been a good partner as Chief of Staff to her predecessor, former Supervisor Mike Antonovich, on issues that affect the 32nd Congressional District, and I look forward to working with her on many other issues that are essential to delivering services to the residents of the Fifth District of LA County. “I also congratulate my good friend Janice Hahn on a well-deserved position. She has been and will continue to be a great champion for residents of the southern and coastal areas of our county. “It is a new day for the County with four female supervisors, a sharp contrast to a few decades ago when there was not even one woman. We are glad they hope to be a cohesive board, and we look forward to working together to lead LA County forward.” # # #
11.29.2016	(Los Angeles, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) was honored by Access Services with the “Spirit of Accessibility” award for including an amendment in the FAST Act Transportation Bill which maintained a simple two-tiered fare structure for transit riders with disabilities. “I am truly honored to receive this award and grateful for the work Access Services and Los Angeles County transit agencies do to provide mobility for the disabled community,” Napolitano said. “Because of our combined efforts, our amendment, which allows all 44 LA County transportation agencies to utilize Access’ simple fare system, was included in the Transportation bill signed by the President one year ago this week.” Napolitano’s amendment to the 5-year Transportation bill prohibited the Department of Transportation from forcing Access Services to change its fare structure into a complicated, individual trip based fare. It would have increased fares and created more logistical problems for the vast majority of customers. “We should be making it easier for customers with disabilities to commute, not more difficult,” Napolitano continued. “Access Services was exceedingly helpful in providing critical background information and quick responses to our inquiries in order to move our amendment through the Congressional process. We are also grateful to the hundreds of transit riders and disability advocates who wrote to Congress in support of this effort. Thank you for this award, and I look forward to continuing our work together to improve our transit system.” Napolitano is the highest ranking Californian on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. She was appointed as a conferee to finalize the $305 billion FAST Act last year where she was able to secure over $26 billion for California highway construction, safety, and transit programs. # # #
11.21.2016	(San Dimas, CA) On Friday, November 18, 2016, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held a public forum with local residents and leaders of industry, government, research, and academia in the City of San Dimas to discuss how to achieve a sustainable water future for Southern California while meeting stormwater regulations. “Southern California residents, cities and water agencies have made extraordinary efforts to tackle our current drought by conserving water and implementing alternative water supply projects, such as water recycling, stormwater capture, and groundwater management,” Napolitano said. “We are so grateful to our speakers whose time and expertise are invaluable contributions to the discussion. As a product of forums like this one, I have introduced multiple bills in Congress to support our constituents by investing in these cost-effective, long-term solutions to address the drought and stormwater crisis. Congress must act to provide a sustainable water supply for our future and create good paying jobs in water construction and operations.” The forum was the combination of a series of workshops Napolitano has held on the Los Angeles County Municipal Storm Sewer Systems (MS4) permit and forums on developing a sustainable water future for Southern California. Eleven speakers and panelists offered proposals as to how to expand Southern California’s water portfolio in a sustainable manner, stressing the importance of collaboration. “It was great to come together with the Congresswoman today to hear about all of the exciting stormwater projects that are going to be important solutions to help with our drought conditions,” said Dr. Adam L. Smith, Assistant Professor at the University of Southern California School of Engineering. “I was happy to be here representing USC to share the different campus initiatives we have to collect and reuse stormwater.” “As we work collaboratively to address our stormwater needs, the power comes through sharing resources and maximizing the inclusiveness of compliance,” said Dr. Alex Rojas, Superintendent of Bassett Unified School District. “Whether between cities, counties, school districts, or universities, increasing the amount of compliance opportunities would be beneficial to all." “It is wonderful to be brought together in a forum like this where we can share ideas,” said Alexandra Paxton, Program Manager at the Water Foundation. “The solution to our stormwater quality issues and our water supply issues is only going to be achieved through collaboration and shared out of the box thinking.” “I was happy to participate in the SoCal Stormwater Forum having been invited to share the vast and professional experience of our 30,000 hardworking, well-trained men and women, as it relates to the stormwater issue in California,” said Robert Lizarraga, Marketing Representative at LECET (Laborers Employers Cooperation and Educators Trust) Southwest. “We look forward to being a vital and important partner in utilizing our resources in bringing viable and realistic solutions to this issue.” Approximately 100 people attended the forum with the goal of continuing a water conversation and setting a different tone in addressing Southern California’s water future. Panelist presentations and discussions among participants also highlighted ongoing challenges the region faces in working toward a sustainable water future. “One of the most important things to recognize about Southern California is we live in a highly variable climate,” said Dr. Julie Kalansky of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography Center for Western Weather and Water Extremes, UC San Diego. “We are very dependent on extreme events both for water supply, which also present potential hazard risks and can cause flooding.” “A new approach to water is necessary to meet our goals,” said David Wegner of Jacobs Engineering. “Through water forums we bring together our water managers, students, researchers and public officials to synergize our knowledge and experiences to create a better water future for SoCal.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. All presentations by panelists can be viewed at napolitano.house.gov/issue/socal-stormwater-forum-presentations-panelists. # # #
11.16.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined 168 of her House Democratic colleagues, led by Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-1), in sending a letter asking President-elect Donald Trump to rescind ‘alt-right’ leader Stephen Bannon’s appointment as White House Chief Strategist. “I have heard from many constituents who are afraid and seeking reassurance from President-elect Trump following this election, and I share their deep concerns,” Napolitano said. “Mr. Trump stated he wanted to ‘bind the wounds of division,’ yet his decision to hire Stephen Bannon as White House Chief Strategist is only adding salt to the wounds and driving us farther apart. It sends a very dangerous message to our country, which is in great need of healing. Racist, anti-Semitic, and hate-filled views should be banished from society and have absolutely no place in the White House. We call on Mr. Trump to rescind this appointment immediately and put together a White House staff that is committed to our core American values of inclusiveness, diversity, and tolerance.” The full text of the letter and a list of signers can be viewed below. A PDF of the letter sent to Trump Tower today can be downloaded by clicking here. Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. Sincerely, David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Alma Adams (NC-12) Pete Aguilar (CA-31) Karen Bass (CA-37) Joyce Beatty (OH-3) Xavier Becerra (CA-34) Ami Bera (CA-7) Donald Beyer (VA-8) Sanford Bishop (GA-2) Earl Blumenauer (OR-3) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Madeleine Bordallo (Guam) Brendan Boyle (PA-13) Robert Brady (PA-1) Julia Brownley (CA-26) Cheri Bustos (IL-17) G.K. Butterfield (NC-1) Michael Capuano (MA-7) Tony Cardenas (CA-29) John Carney (DE-At large) Andre Carson (IN-7) Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Kathy Castor (FL-14) Joaquin Castro (TX-20) Judy Chu (CA-27) Katherine Clark (MA-5) Yvette Clarke (NY-9) William Lacy Clay (MO-1) Emanuel Cleaver (MO-5) James Clyburn (SC-6) Steve Cohen (TN-9) Gerald Connolly (VA-11) John Conyers (MI-13) Jim Cooper (TN-5) Joe Courtney (CT-2) Joseph Crowley (NY-14) Elijah Cummings (MD-7) Danny Davis (IL-7) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-4) Diana DeGette (CO-1) John Delaney (MD-6) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) Suzan DelBene (WA-1) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Ted Deutch (FL-21) Debbie Dingell (MI-12) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Michael Doyle (PA-14) Tammy Duckworth (IL-8) Donna Edwards (MD-4) Keith Ellison (MN-5) Eliot Engel (NY-16) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) Dwight Evans (PA-2) Sam Farr (CA-20) Bill Foster (IL-11) Lois Frankel (FL-22) Marcia Fudge (OH-11) Ruben Gallego (AZ-7) John Garamendi (CA-3) Gwen Graham (FL-2) Al Green (TX-9) Gene Green (TX-29) Raul Grijalva (AZ-3) Luis Gutierrez (IL-4)Janice Hahn (CA-44) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-1) Alcee Hastings (FL-20) Denny Heck (WA-10) Brian Higgins (NY-26) James Himes (CT-4) Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15) Michael Honda (CA-17) Jared Huffman (CA-2) Steve Israel (NY-3) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) Hank Johnson (GA-4) Marcy Kaptur (OH-9) William Keating (MA-9) Robin Kelly (IL-2) Joseph Kennedy (MA-4) Dan Kildee (MI-5) Derek Kilmer (WA-6) Ron Kind (WI-3) Ann Marie Kuster (NH-2) James Langevin (RI-2) Rick Larsen (WA-2) John Larson (CT-1) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-9) John Lewis (GA-5) Ted Lieu (CA-33) Dave Loebsack (IA-2) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-3) Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-1) Stephen Lynch (MA-8) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Doris Matsui (CA-6) Betty McCollum (MN-4) Jim McDermott (WA-7) James McGovern (MA-2) Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Gregory Meeks (NY-5) Grace Meng (NY-6) Gwen Moore (WI-4) Seth Moulton (MA-6) Patrick Murphy (FL-18) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) Richard Neal (MA-1) Richard Nolan (MN-8) Donald Norcross (NJ-1) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC) Beto O'Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-6) Bill Pascrell (NJ-9) Donald Payne Jr. (NJ-10) Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Scott Peters (CA-52) Chellie Pingree (ME-1) Mark Pocan (WI-2) Jared Polis (CO-2) David Price (NC-4) Mike Quigley (IL-5) Kathleen Rice (NY-4) Cedric Richmond (LA-2) Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) Raul Ruiz (CA-36) Tim Ryan (OH-13) Linda Sanchez (CA-38) John Sarbanes (MD-3) Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Adam Schiff (CA-28) Kurt Schrader (OR-5) Bobby Scott (VA-3) Jose Serrano (NY-15) Terri Sewell (AL-7) Albio Sires (NJ-8) Louise McIntosh Slaughter (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-9) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Eric Swalwell (CA-15) Mark Takano (CA-41) Bennie Thompson (MS-2) Mike Thompson (CA-5) Dina Titus (NV-1) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Norma Torres (CA-35) Niki Tsongas (MA-3) Chris Van Hollen (MD-8) Juan Vargas (CA-51) Marc Veasey (TX-33) Nydia Velazquez (NY-7) Timothy Walz (MN-1) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-At large) Frederica Wilson (FL-24) John Yarmuth (KY-3) # # #
11.11.2016	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on Veterans Day, after attending ceremonies in the cities of La Puente, Monrovia, and West Covina, thanking San Gabriel Valley veterans and their families: “Today, as a grateful nation we observe Veterans Day, and pay special tribute to all who served us so proudly. Our veterans represent the best our country has to offer, making us the envy of the world. As they have served us, we must serve and honor them. “We honor our veterans by prioritizing their earned benefits and critical services, including access to jobs and workforce training, education, housing assistance, healthcare, and mental healthcare. As we honor our vets, we also honor their families. While protecting our freedoms abroad and at home, the sacrifices their families have made must not be forgotten. All veterans and their families have earned and deserve the same dedication they have shown us. "To all veterans—be sure to register with the VA and get checked for full physical and psychiatric evaluations. With an estimated 20 veterans dying by suicide each day, we must learn symptoms of mental distress, reach out to all who may be suffering with invisible wounds of war, and encourage them to seek help. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255), and press 1 to connect with the Veterans line. “Our brave veterans, men and women of all ages and ethnicities, responded to the call of the nation they love, and now we must respond in kind. Let us remember to always show our gratitude, not just on Veterans Day, but daily as you see men and women in or out of uniform. May God bless all of our veterans and their families.” Each summer Napolitano holds a veterans forum in the City of Azusa, bringing the VA to the San Gabriel Valley to assist with casework. All local veterans and their families are invited to attend. For more information or assistance with VA claims, call Napolitano’s Military/Veterans Liaison, Hector Elizalde, at 626-350-0150. # # #
11.08.2016	(El Monte, CA) Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the shooting which took place this afternoon at a home near Memorial Park in Azusa: “Our hearts are with the City of Azusa this evening, as we are deeply saddened and troubled by today’s shooting. We are praying for the victims and their families and wish speedy recovery for those wounded. “We commend the coordinated efforts of all law enforcement personnel, including those from surrounding communities, and are glad to hear no officers were wounded. We are grateful peace has been restored in Azusa tonight and that no further violence occurred.” # # #
11.03.2016	(Ontario, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) joined local residents, stakeholders, and public officials at a signing ceremony marking the official transfer of ownership of the Ontario Airport to local control. “Congratulations to the Ontario International Airport Authority for this important achievement,” Napolitano said. “This will lead to more flight options, more jobs, and more economic growth in the Inland Empire and San Gabriel Valley. My constituents will greatly benefit from local control, which will facilitate airport improvements based on our regional needs.” Background: · After five years of negotiations the City of Los Angeles agreed to transfer its ownership of the Ontario Airport (ONT) to a new airport authority created by the City of Ontario and San Bernardino County. · The major point in this local agreement was providing for the repayment of passenger facility charges (PFCs) that Los Angeles had collected at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in the 1990s and used to construct a new terminal at ONT. · The settlement agreement requires ONT to pay back LAX with future PFCs collected at ONT. · Napolitano coauthored a bipartisan amendment with Rep. Mimi Walters to allow for the transfer of PFCs from ONT to LAX in order to repay the construction loan from the 1990s. · The Napolitano-Walters amendment was included in H.R. 3614, the FAA Extension Act, which was signed by the President on September 30, 2016. · Napolitano is the highest ranking California Democratic member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. # # #
11.01.2016	(West Covina, CA) On Saturday, October 29, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held an annual military academy information session at the West Covina Senior Citizen Center where students, parents, and educators had a chance to learn more about educational opportunities at our nation’s military academies. “We have seen the lives of countless individuals from our area, like yourselves, forever changed through the world class education and leadership skills they received at one of our military service academies,” Napolitano said. “Each year we are proud to present this opportunity to assist you in pursuing your dreams with a nomination to the academy of your choice, so please let us know how we can help.” Approximately 50 attendees spoke with and heard presentations by representatives from West Point and the Naval, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Merchant Marine service academies as well as the National Guard. Our nation’s military service academies are consistently ranked by U.S. News and World Report as some of the most selective and competitive colleges in the world. Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. All interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in El Monte by Friday, November 4, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit https://napolitano.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations) • One or two letters of recommendation • A personal statement indicating why you should be considered • High school and/or college transcripts • Copy of SAT or ACT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (626) 350-0150. # # #
10.27.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on the Defense Department’s decision to halt the collection of bonuses and student loan repayments given to California National Guardsmen, calling for the Department to work with Congress on a permanent solution: “We are glad the Defense Department has halted the collection of recruiting bonuses paid to California National Guardsmen, but the issue is not yet fully resolved. It is critical that Congress and the Department act together, to permanently solve this issue and offer relief to those who have been forced to make payments. This will alleviate unnecessary financial stress and burden, and help restore dignity to our servicemembers, our veterans, and their families.” # # #
10.25.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) issued the following statement after nearly 10,000 California National Guardsmen were ordered to repay bonuses and student loan repayments given to them as an incentive to reenlist during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan: “It is unconscionable the Defense Department is demanding repayment from our brave soldiers after they answered our nation’s call and honorably served. This is not the fault of the servicemembers, and they should not have to worry about this now. We should be assisting our veterans and their families in every way possible through job assistance and training, improved health and mental health services, and housing, not asking more from those who made incredible sacrifices to keep us safe. “When Congress resumes next month I pledge to work with all of my colleagues to fix this problem. In the meantime, the Defense Department should stop the demand for repayment immediately. It is unfair to California veterans and their families, and we must do everything we can to rectify this situation.” Background: In the mid-2000s, the Defense Department began offering over $15,000 in bonuses and student loan repayments to retain soldiers as they faced two ongoing wars and a need for troops. Although California has become the focal point of this issue due to the sheer size of its National Guard program, the Defense Department says that this is problem in every state. About 9,700 California Guardsmen have been ordered to repay these bonuses; many have been charged interest and threatened with tax liens if they refuse. The repayments are part of a federal program run by the National Guard Bureau and the Department of the Army. The California National Guard has stated that they want to forgive these debts, but they are prohibited by federal law. # # #
10.21.2016	(Duarte, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held a free export seminar with the City of Duarte, the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership, and the Duarte Chamber of Commerce. More than 40 local business people gathered at the Duarte Performing Arts Center to receive free expert guidance on how to increase international sales and expand their businesses into global markets. “By educating and training our region’s businesses on exporting opportunities, we are adding local jobs and ensuring companies remain here in the San Gabriel Valley,” Napolitano said. “Foreign countries are continuing to demand American-made goods, which is why today’s seminar is so critical. We thank the City of Duarte for hosting this event and the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership and the Duarte Chamber of Commerce for working with local businesses, helping them to grow and deliver high-quality goods to meet the demands of our changing global economy.” “95% of world consumers live outside of the US. Exploring international trade opportunities is no longer a choice for US companies but it is a necessity,” said Rachid Sayouty, U.S. Commercial Service, U.S. Department of Commerce. “The seminar highlighted and showed some of the great resources available from the U.S. Commercial Service to local companies on how to take their business internationally.” “This seminar is an important means to help expand the region’s export base, through connecting businesses with the resources they need to assist them to bring their goods and services to market internationally,” said Jim MacLellan, Port of Los Angeles. “We are very grateful to the Office of Congresswoman Napolitano for consistently convening these valuable introductory export seminars for the benefit of local businesses and entrepreneurs.” Ken Rakusin of Gordon Brush Mfg. Co., Inc. (City of Industry) spoke about the importance of continuing to produce goods here in the United States, while facing foreign competition. “Patriotism is paramount at Gordon Brush which has been steadfast in its commitment to manufacturing in the United States even under competitive threats,” said Ken Rakusin, President and CEO. “When you look at our products next to similar items from China there are no comparisons. Promoting American made is vital to the strength, health, and viability of the United States. We are determined to build and grow our business in the United States.” The panel discussions led by ten experts from the U.S. Department of Commerce, East West Bank, the Centers for International Trade Development, the Export-Import Bank of the United States and other organizations, focused on trade financing and resources as well as export logistics. Seminar attendees learned about available government resources and private capital, how to research different markets, and how to secure financing. Resources for Further Information: · Small Business Administration (SBA): 1-800-U-ASK-SBA - www.sba.gov/recovery · International Trade Administration – www.export.gov · SBA Los Angeles Office: (818) 552-3215 www.sba.gov/localresources/district/ca/la · California Job Service: (562) 402-9336 - www.caljobs.ca.gov · Small Business Opportunities with Dept. of Energy - management.energy.gov/business_DOE.htm · Small Business Opportunities with Dept. of Labor - www.dol.gov/oasam/programs/osdbu # # #
10.01.2016	Monrovia, CA - Today, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) marked October as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, issuing the following statement: “We are here to embrace all the brave survivors of domestic violence and extend our love and support to them. Too often fear and shame prevent more survivors from seeking help, which is why reminders of the support from our community and are critical for the healing of those who have been wounded both physically and emotionally. We need all of your help to end domestic violence, and we thank you for your compassion.” # # #
09.28.2016	(Washington, DC)—Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26) introduced H. Res. 898, to support the inclusion and meaningful engagement of Latinos in environmental protection and conservation efforts. “Our resolution proudly recognizes Latinos throughout our country and the vital role they play in caring for our environment,” said Napolitano. “It honors Latino environmentalists, like those from California’s San Gabriel Valley, who along with my colleague Rep. Judy Chu were responsible for President Obama’s designation of a national monument in October of 2014. The San Gabriel Mountains National Monument continues to increase access to parks and other recreational areas for more Latinos while protecting green space in Los Angeles County for future generations. As communities of color grow in the U.S., we must continue to work with our federal natural resources agencies to ensure Latinos and other minorities have a seat at the table and that all Americans have access to public parks.” “As the largest minority group in the United States, Latinos play a significant role in shaping government policy, especially when it comes to protecting our natural resources in the United States,” said Curbelo. “Our country is filled with an abundance of national treasures, and we must work together to preserve them for future generations. I thank Rep. Napolitano for her engagement and advocacy for our community.” H. Res. 898 is the House companion resolution to an identical resolution introduced by Senator Michael Bennet (D-CO) and allows Congress to thank Latinos for their role in both protecting and preserving U.S. land, water, and wildlife. It also calls on federal resource agencies to ensure the input and participation of Latinos in conservation efforts. “Latino Americans protect and preserve our land, water, and wildlife every day, but their contributions are rarely recognized as environmentalism on par with traditional activist groups,” said House Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Raúl M. Grijalva. “With climate change impacting vulnerable communities, outdated pipes threatening our drinking water, and pollution impacting our quality of life from the inner cities to the great outdoors, we all have an important stake in better environmental policies, no matter who we are or where we live. Let’s use this important resolution not just to celebrate the Latino conservation efforts we’ve already seen, but to encourage the next generation of Latino environmental engagement and spread awareness in our nation’s fastest-growing community of the importance of strong environmental standards.” The full text of the Resolution can be read here. # # #
09.08.2016	(Washington, DC)—Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) congratulated Foothill Transit on the $7.24 million Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grant it received for the design and construction of a transit center at Mt. San Antonio College (Mt. SAC) in Walnut, CA. “We congratulate Foothill Transit on being awarded new federal funds which will relieve congestion, reduce pollution, and improve public transportation in the San Gabriel Valley,” Napolitano said. "With over 30,000 students and 2,400 staff and faculty members at the college, access to Mt SAC’s campus is a significant problem, and the new transit center will benefit the entire college community. More and more, millions of Americans rely on public transportation for their commute, and we must ensure support for these projects at all levels of government.” The Federal Bus and Bus Facilities grant for the Mt. SAC Transit Center will include ten bus bays, transit information, and passenger amenities. Foothill Transit has been at the forefront of innovation with its 100% alternative fuel bus fleet as well as acquiring the first fast-charging electric buses in the world. While Foothill provides almost three million boardings per year on lines that reach the college, there is currently no on-campus transit access. The new transit center will consolidate and centralize ten off-campus curbside stops located on high-speed arterial roads around the college to allow safer pedestrian access to and from the campus. As the highest ranking Californian on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Napolitano advocated for the inclusion of the Bus and Bus Facilities Grant program in the FAST Act, which Congress passed last year. Napolitano coauthored a letter in June expressing support to FTA for Foothill Transit’s grant request with Reps. Ed Royce (CA-39), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Judy Chu (CA-27), and Norma Torres (CA-35). The full letter can be viewed here. # # #
08.26.2016	(City of Industry, CA)—Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (MD) visited Gordon Brush Mfg. Co., Inc. in the City of Industry to congratulate and thank them for being a proud American manufacturer, while discussing the important role small businesses play in our economy and how House Democrats’ Make It In America plan can help break down barriers companies face to growing their businesses here in the U.S. “Despite foreign competition and companies replicating their products, Gordon Brush continues to manufacture their goods right here in the San Gabriel Valley, employing local residents and stimulating our region’s economy. It is the exceptional quality and durability of their brushes that businesses and consumers look for when purchasing items for industrial, commercial, and personal use, and we must do all we can to ensure these American-made goods remain on the market,” said Rep. Napolitano. “We are so grateful House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer has joined us for this important visit today. I look forward to continuing to work with my friend and our distinguished Whip to advance the Make It In America plan, so we can help small businesses like Gordon Brush compete in the global economy and keep their companies here in the U.S.” “I was proud to join my friend and colleague, Rep. Napolitano, in her district today to visit Gordon Brush and discuss our Make It In America plan,” said Whip Hoyer. “I was pleased to learn more about how Gordon Brush is innovating and creating good jobs here in the U.S., and I enjoyed meeting their hardworking employees. In Congress, Rep. Napolitano and I will continue to pursue our jobs plan to help ensure businesses like Gordon Brush and their workers can compete, succeed, and continue to make it in America.” “Gordon Brush appreciates the opportunity we had for discussions with Congresswoman Napolitano and House Democratic Whip Hoyer on the importance and impact that American manufacturing has on our business and the economy,” said Ken Rakusin, President & CEO. “We welcome their continued support to pass legislation that incentivizes companies to “Make It In America.” They were receptive to our discussions on financial incentives for manufacturers such as retaining the Section 179 deduction or creating an investment tax credit, as well as understanding the impact higher taxes and increased health care costs have on businesses.” Gordon Brush Mfg. Co., Inc., founded in 1951, is a leading manufacturer of specialty, custom, and standard brushes for industrial, commercial, and consumer purposes. With approximately 125 full-time workers, of which the vast majority has been with the company for more than 25 years, a number of Gordon Brush employees are second generation. The company sells to a multitude of industries including: janitorial, medical, electronics, manufacturing, military, aerospace, and pharmaceutical. Gordon Brush has made brushes for the United States Army to clean the main gun on the Abrams tanks, saving the Department of Defense over $1.5 billion. Napolitano participated in a “Make It In America: What’s Next?” hearing last year to discuss her ideas based on visitations to San Gabriel Valley businesses for how Congress can address today’s economic challenges and capitalize on new economic opportunities. Using Napolitano’s and her colleagues’ feedback, House Democrats unveiled a new Make It In America plan in June. The updated plan focuses on four areas of action: expanding entrepreneurship & innovation, closing the skills gap, building a 21st century infrastructure, and breaking down barriers to manufacturing in the U.S. Since the plan was launched in 2010, seventeen Make It In America bills have become law, including legislation to cut taxes and provide loans for small businesses, speed up the patent process, train skilled workers, and end tax loopholes that encourage companies to ship jobs overseas. To learn more about the Make It In America plan, click here. # # #
08.18.2016	(Sausalito, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) attended the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers South Pacific Division Change of Command Ceremony at the Bay Model Visitor Center in Sausalito, honoring outgoing Commander and Southern California native, Brigadier General Mark Toy. “As a proud son of California having grown up in Huntington Beach, General Toy has been an incredible resource to our state and the Western States in his time as South Pacific Division Commander and previously as Los Angeles District Commander,” Napolitano said. “He has clearly understood how the drought has affected our region, and he has made invaluable operational decisions to increase water supply at Army Corps Dams for local water agencies. General Toy has continued to improve flood control prevention and preparedness in our state, while at the same time providing much needed flexibility for water conservation, groundwater recharge, environmental restoration, and recreational opportunities for our residents.” Napolitano was joined at the Change of Command Ceremony by Brig. Gen. Toy’s family, colleagues, and friends, as well as Lt. Gen. Todd T. Semonite, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Commanding General and Chief of Engineers and incoming South Pacific Division Commander, Col. Peter Helmlinger. Brig. Gen. Toy will transition to a new leadership role within the Army Corps of Engineers in the coming months. “I am personally grateful for General Toy’s friendship over the past seven years, and his assistance with inspiring the next generation of engineers and military leaders by attending National Guard Youth Challenge Program events, our annual military academy day information sessions, and visiting schools and colleges in our state,” Napolitano added. “It is honorable that General Toy is continuing his service to our nation, and I look forward to working with him in my role as the Ranking Democrat on the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee which oversees the Army Corps of Engineers.” # # #
08.16.2016	(West Covina, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano announced the City of West Covina was found by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to be carrying out the use of its Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program grants in a timely manner. “I would like to congratulate the City of West Covina on their efforts to work through this issue with HUD,” Napolitano said. “HUD was concerned over the timely use of anti-poverty grant funds, and the city could have been at risk of losing them. However, the federal agency failed to take into consideration the time it takes to complete project designs, go to bid on construction, and then complete the projects. We were glad to communicate this information to HUD Secretary Julian Castro to ensure that the city was able to keep and use these critical funds.” The City of West Covina asked Napolitano for assistance when the city’s CDBG program grants were expiring in May. Napolitano contacted Secretary Castro to request a 60-day extension. After conducting a review in July, HUD deemed the city to be utilizing funds in a timely manner and in early August was allowed to retain their grants and utilize funds. “The City of West Covina is appreciative of Congresswoman Napolitano’s efforts to help preserve our Community Development Block Grant Funds administered by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,” stated West Covina Mayor James Toma. “The City uses these funds to provide essential services for our seniors, local food banks, homeless services, removing barriers for disabled individuals, and much more.” One of Napolitano’s chief responsibilities is to assist residents and cities when dealing with federal agencies – this assistance is referred to as casework. Her casework staff is ready and willing to help cut through “red tape” and secure services and benefits paid for by tax dollars. For assistance call Napolitano’s El Monte office at 626-350-0150 or visit napolitano.house.gov/serving-you. # # #
07.08.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, U.S. Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Rodney Davis (R-IL-13) announced their legislation to permanently authorize the Army Corps of Engineers’ Veterans Curation Program (VCP) was signed into law by President Barack Obama. H.R. 3114, the Army Corps of Engineers Veterans Curation Program Act, overwhelmingly passed the House in November and the Senate last week. “We are thrilled President Obama has made permanent this critical job training program for more veterans, affirming that those who have served us honorably must be our top priority in hiring decisions,” said Napolitano. “Congressman Davis and I have been grateful for this opportunity to provide our veterans with job training assistance, helping them and their families re-integrate while assisting in the Corps’ management of their archeological and historical collections. I thank him for all his great bipartisan work on behalf of all of our veterans.” “At a time when much of the focus seems to be on our disagreements, this bipartisan legislation is great example of how Democrats and Republicans can and do work together to pass important legislation,” said Davis. “The Veterans Curation Programs throughout the country, including the program near my district in St. Louis, have helped more than 200 veterans build on the skills and training they've received in the military and transition to a new career here at home. I've seen firsthand the positive impact this program can have in a veteran's life and the great work they've done in the St. Louis area restoring important historical photographs and documents.” The VCP preserves the Nation’s cultural and archeological resources with curatorial services according to professional museum and archival practices, preparing our veterans for employment in these areas. H.R. 3114 permanently authorizes funds for the Corps to hire veterans—including disabled veterans—to carry out these responsibilities. Currently, there are VCP laboratories in Augusta, GA, Washington, DC, and St. Louis, MO, providing veterans with a 5-month program of training and employment in curatorial services. 241 veterans have gone through the program, and currently there is a class of 38 veterans. As a direct result of this program, 139 veterans have obtained permanent employment, and 39 have continued their education, either at colleges, universities, or in certificated programs. The VCP is providing long-term savings to the Corps, and to our nation, through more efficient and effective management of their archeological and historical collections, making this historical collection readily available to the American public. Ranking Member Napolitano and Congressman Davis sit on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. # # #
07.08.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement in response to the shootings in Dallas, Texas: “We condemn the intolerable actions by a few people who exploited a peaceful demonstration, shooting police officers who were there to protect those marching. We offer our deepest condolences to the families of the officers slain and wish speedy recovery to those injured. More and more our nation is faced with heartbreaking tragedies, caused by anger and unrest, and this must stop. It only leads to more strife by those who want to emulate this heinous behavior, tearing apart more American families. We trust we will not have a series of incidents like this happening because of escalating anger and fear. We cannot let this become commonplace. We must address this hatred and violence by talking to each other, finding out what ails our society, and unite to begin healing as a nation.” # # #
06.27.2016	(Azusa, CA) On Saturday, June 25, 2016, Congresswomen Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) and Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park) joined forces with the California Army National Guard, the City of Azusa, and local veterans organizations to bring the VA to the U.S. Army National Guard Armory in Azusa to assist San Gabriel Valley veterans with their casework. “We salute all veterans and their families for their service and sacrifice to our country,” said Congresswoman Napolitano. “Which is why we, too, must serve and continue to show the same dedication they have shown us. We are very grateful to Congresswoman Chu and her office for co-hosting this important public event, expanding our outreach to San Gabriel Valley veterans. Our communities stand united on behalf of all veterans to ensure they receive the benefits they have gallantly earned. We thank the City of Azusa, all the volunteers, veteran service organizations, community-based organizations, and colleges for their strong support. Our El Monte office is always available to assist. Please call any time.” “Because our veterans have given so much to each of us, I know that I am not alone in wanting to give something back to each of them,” said Congresswoman Chu. “That means helping with resources, like today’s forum, but also by honoring them in our everyday life as well. Between myself and Rep. Napolitano, our combined districts have more than 45,000 veterans who have given their all for us, and it is imperative that we do everything possible to give what we can back to them. In fact, every day, my office sees and hears from veterans from the San Gabriel Valley looking for help and advice. Some of them are looking for an update on their benefits claim, many after having waited for more than 6 months. Others are trying to get an appointment to see a doctor, and still others are looking for information on going back to school. Finally, many of our veterans come to my office seeking assistance to retrieve old medals that were either lost or stolen. Helping each of our veterans find the answers to these questions and others is why we put together this forum today. I was so pleased with the success of today’s event and I look forward to doing more to get our veterans the care and support they deserve.” Michael Fisher, Director, Long Beach VA Hospital and Emmett O’Meara, Assistant Director, VA Los Angeles Regional Office, also welcomed the veterans and discussed the many services available to them at their facilities. Other speakers included representatives from local veterans organizations cosponsoring the event, including: LA County Department of Veterans Affairs, the VFW, American Legion, American GI Forum, and the Vet Hunters Project. More than 100 of the region’s veterans were registered and had the opportunity to meet one-on-one with the VA’s fifteen caseworkers on site. Veterans also received health exams and participated in workshops led by experts on important topics regarding mental health, women warriors, education and financial planning, and combating veteran homelessness. For assistance with VA claims, call Napolitano’s Military/Veterans Liaison, Hector Elizalde, at 626-350-0150. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. # # #
06.23.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled 4-4 on U.S. v. Texas, deadlocking President Obama’s executive actions to provide temporary relief from deportation for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and eligible parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents: “We are extremely disappointed the Supreme Court has been tainted by politics as usual, thanks to the overreach by one district court judge and the partisan obstruction of Republicans in Congress. The Court has failed the American people, and our communities will continue to suffer as a result. This illustrates exactly what is at stake when politicians play games with the nation’s highest court and why the Supreme Court vacancy must be filled. “It is critical to note that today’s erroneous outcome does not impact DACA 2012, which was not at issue in this case. My Democratic colleagues and I remain committed to building on that progress we have made, embracing the contributions of more than 730,000 young DREAMers. Today’s setback is heartbreaking, but it will not deter us from fighting to ensure all immigrants can live in dignity, without fear of being separated from their families.” # # #
06.21.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4369, bipartisan legislation to complete the transfer of Ontario International Airport from the city of Los Angeles to the Ontario International Airport Authority: “Allowing for local control of Ontario Airport puts the best interest of our region first in improving and managing the airport. I am very appreciative that this agreement makes sure that airport workers will not lose their jobs during and after the transition. I also thank my bipartisan colleagues from California, especially Congressman Calvert and Congresswoman Torres, for their leadership on this bill, which will benefit residents, businesses, and cities in the San Gabriel Valley and the Inland Empire.” Background: · After five years of negotiations the City of Los Angeles agreed to transfer its ownership of the Ontario Airport to a new airport authority created by the City of Ontario and San Bernardino County. · The major point in this local agreement was providing for the repayment of passenger facility charges (PFCs) that Los Angeles had collected at LAX in the 1990s and used to construct a new terminal at Ontario Airport. · The settlement agreement requires Ontario Airport to pay back LAX with future PFCs collected at Ontario. · Napolitano cosponsored H.R. 4369 along with Reps. Ken Calvert (CA-42), Norma Torres (CA-35), Ed Royce (CA-39), Paul Cook (CA-8), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Pete Aguilar (CA-31), and Mark Takano (CA-41). · H.R. 4369 allows PFCs collected at Ontario International Airport to be used for projects at LAX; it only applies to Ontario Airport and LAX. · H.R. 4369 was approved by a voice vote. # # #
06.21.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after Pacific Gas & Electric Co. and labor and environmental groups announced a joint proposal to close Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant and replace it with investment in a greenhouse-gas-free portfolio of energy efficiency, renewables, and energy storage: “Today’s decision puts the safety of California residents first and shows our commitment to meeting our state's energy efficiency goals. We commend all parties in coming together to reach this agreement, a critical step toward building a clean energy future for all Californians.” # # #
06.12.2016	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the mass shooting which took place at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, FL: “Our hearts are full of anguish and disbelief over last night’s malicious attack, now the deadliest mass shooting in our nation’s history. We join all Americans in grieving the loss of innocent lives in this senseless act of violence which targeted the LGBT community. We are praying for the victims’ families and friends, and all who are still waiting to hear from loved ones during this dreadful time. We need to be more tolerant; there is absolutely no place for hatred in our country. “We are sincerely grateful to the heroic first responders who rushed to the scene to rescue many inside the club and prevent further casualties. Our thoughts and prayers remain with the city of Orlando and all Floridians today.” # # #
05.25.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) praised the passage of H.R. 5303, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016, by the full House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, releasing the following statement: “I am proud of the work we have done with San Gabriel Valley and state water agencies to include provisions in this bill that improve drought resilience, address regional storm water challenges, and create environmental and recreational opportunities for our constituents," Napolitano said. "I commend Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member DeFazio, and Chairman Gibbs for working in a bipartisan fashion, and I look forward to our continued efforts as we move this bill forward.” Napolitano, the most senior California member of the Committee, successfully included her Donor and Energy Transfer Ports Amendment in the Manger’s Amendment to the bill. This would extend the current authorization of $50 million per year for donor and energy transfer harbors for expanded uses of berth dredging, environmental remediation dredging, and rebates to shippers. Donor harbors are harmed because their shippers are taxed much more than they receive back in harbor maintenance funding. This excessive tax diverts cargo away from donor harbors which leads to business and job losses in regions, such as Southern California, that are paying the most in taxes. The full text of the Water Resources Development Act can be viewed here. A full summary of H.R. 5303 can be viewed here. Napolitano is the ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which oversees EPA’s Clean Water Act and US Army Corps of Engineers water programs. # # #
05.24.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, during a floor debate in the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) spoke out against H.R. 897, a Republican bill under the guise of fighting the Zika Virus, which would exempt commercial pesticide application from regulation under the Clean Water Act. Napolitano voted against the bill, for the fourth time in three years, which ultimately passed by a vote of 258 to 156. “I am very concerned about the effect of these pesticides on the health of our rivers, on our streams, and especially the drinking water supplies of all our citizens, including pregnant women,” Napolitano said in her opening statement. “This legislation does nothing to prevent the spread of Zika in the United States. Instead it makes it easier to contaminate our drinking water supplies with pesticides known or suspected to pose these health risks. I urge all of my colleagues to oppose this misguided, harmful bill.” Last week, on May 17, the House considered H.R. 897 under suspension of the rules. By a vote of 262 to 159, the House failed to pass the bill under suspension, as passage requires a two-thirds majority. In bringing H.R. 897 up now and suddenly renaming it the “Zika Vector Control Act,” House Republicans are trying to mask gutting the Clean Water Act as having something to do with fighting Zika. Rather than a bill designed to address the Zika crisis, this bill is exactly the same bill – with the title “Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act” – that House Republicans have been trying to enact since 2009. “We cannot, and should not, eliminate the role of the Clean Water Act in the regulation of pesticides,” Napolitano added. “Over the past five years, this process has been reasonable and workable to pest operators and agricultural interests alike, and needs to be retained.” Napolitano is the ranking Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. Her full opening statement can be viewed here. # # #
05.20.2016	DSC_0515.JPG (El Monte, CA) Today, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), honored the 2016 “Unsung Heroines,” Women of the Year for exemplary service at an awards ceremony at the Grace T. Black Auditorium in El Monte. “It just gives me great pleasure to recognize some of the many women who are not normally recognized," Napolitano said. “You do not seek recognition and do not ask for it. Some of you never tell anybody you are doing things, you just do them. The fact is without the work you do in the community, it would be very hard for our cities, schools, churches, nonprofits, and other organizations to be able to carry out the programs they do, and we are so grateful for all your selfless acts of service.” 23 women received the award. Each woman’s name was submitted by her volunteer organization or community group that felt her contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked the women personally. “I have enjoyed very much what I do, and I like giving back to the community because I have gotten a lot of good from the community,” said Barbara Fess of the City of La Puente. “Always remember that there are other people out there who need your help and if you are able to give it, you should.” “Joyce and I have been doing this for 73 years together friends,” said Sharon Lewis of herself and fellow honoree, Joyce Dill of Citrus College. “I think we have always been volunteers, since we were kids. We were doing things when we were in school, being involved in the government in high school, and here we are now. We just keep moving and doing more.” The 2016 Women of the Year: Luanne Arredondo – Mayor James Toma, City of West Covina Werdna Beale – GFWC Covina Woman's Club Alicia Becerril – Mayor Joe Rocha, City of Azusa Linda Clifford – Azusa/Glendora Soroptimist Barbara Collins – Baldwin Park Adult and Community Education Joyce Dill – Citrus College Alumni & Friends Association Christine Evans – American Legion Auxiliary Barbara Fess – Councilmember Dan Holloway, City of La Puente Monica Flores – Azusa City Library Debbie Garcia – Mayor Pro Tem Victoria Martinez, City of El Monte Sara Garcia – St. John the Baptist Catholic Church Lois Gaston – Foothill Unity Center Rexann Jasso – First United Methodist Church of La Puente Dulce Jimenez – United Methodist Church of Baldwin Park Jolie Johnson – American Legion Shushan Khachatryan – California Mental Health Connection Nita Lasserre – Councilmember Cruz Baca, City of Baldwin Park Sharon Lewis – Citrus College Foundation Hope Milan – Cory C. Moss, City of Industry Shaila Salmeron – Azusa Neighborhood Homework House Elizabeth Saucedo – Citrus College - Veterans Success Center Darlene Walker-Coleman – Foothill Alumnae Chapter, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Dorothy "Dee" Williams – Covina-Valley Unified School District # # #
05.18.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) welcomed Dr. Patricia Venegas to deliver the opening prayer at the U.S. House of Representatives. “We are so pleased to welcome Dr. Patricia Venegas of Without Spot or Wrinkle Ministries International, and I thank her and her husband for coming from La Verne,” Napolitano said. “Dr. Venegas is also Chaplain for the Covina Police Department, serving the men and women who keep us safe every day. Thank you for all you do to spread the Gospel throughout the San Gabriel Valley and beyond. May God bless you, and may God bless our country.” Each year, Members of Congress can recommend someone from their congressional district to serve as guest pastor of the House for a day. Pastor Venegas was selected to be a guest chaplain at the request of Congressman Napolitano. Dr. Venegas is Senior Pastor and CEO of Without Spot or Wrinkle Ministries International, which she and her husband, Reverend Benjamin Venegas, founded in 1998. She has served as Covina Police Department Chaplain in Covina, California since 1997 and was ordained as a Minister of the Gospel in 2006. Dr. Venegas’ prayer can be viewed here. # # #
05.17.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Congressional Mental Health Caucus Chair Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Chair Rep. Judy Chu (CA-27) hosted a briefing on the issues of stigma and access to care within the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community, jointly recognizing May as National Mental Health Awareness Month and Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. “Mental illness truly knows no boundaries and continues to affect everyone in every segment of society,” Rep. Napolitano said. “We are so grateful to partner with Chairwoman Chu and other members of CAPAC to bring awareness to the needs of the AAPI community and work together to bridge gaps in access and availability to mental health services for all Asian Americans. Together we are bringing visibility to mental health and fighting to end stigma, so those in need know it is always okay to ask for help.” “Because of the stigma associated with mental illness, those who suffer do not seek help, and instead suffer in silence. This is exacerbated by the pervasive myth that AAPIs are a ‘model minority’ that do not suffer from mental and behavioral disorders. As a result, there is a lack of accurate information about mental health conditions, symptoms, treatments, and support. We therefore see glaring disparities,” said Rep. Chu. “For instance, Asian American women over the age of 65 have the highest suicide rate among women of the same age in the United States. This is unacceptable. Today’s briefing and panel discussion on the issues of stigma and access to care within the AAPI community are crucial steps towards properly addressing this issue within our community and creating a dialogue about the importance of mental health. Through messaging and outreach that reflect the unique cultural and language needs of our community, we can save lives and get individuals the help they deserve.” Diana Narasaki, Executive Director of Asian Counseling and Referral Service (ACRS), moderated the briefing and panel discussion, which included presentations by Marla Hendrikkson, Director of the Office of Communications of SAMHSA (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration); Myron Quon, Executive Director of National Asian Pacific American Families Against Substance Abuse (NAPAFASA); and DJ Ida, Executive Director of National Asian American Pacific Islander Mental Health Association (NAPIMA). On Friday, Representatives Chu and Napolitano introduced H.R. 5234, the Stop Mental Health Stigma in Our Communities Act, which would instruct SAMHSA to provide outreach and education strategies to increase awareness of symptoms of mental illness, linguistically and culturally appropriate interventions, and encourage individuals and communities to use a comprehensive, public health approach when addressing mental and behavioral health. Today’s panelists emphasized key components of the legislation, such as providing culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for the AAPI community, with the overarching goal of erasing stigma. “We need to create a place that is safe to talk about mental health, reminding our friends and loved ones to not be afraid to speak up,” said DJ Ida. “The other piece is we must be sure to do this in a manner that understands and respects all the languages and cultures within the AAPI community.” If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
05.11.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and John Katko (R-NY-24) co-hosted a bipartisan briefing, featuring New York City’s First Lady Chirlane McCray, to promote school-based mental health services. Three individuals from Southern California also served on the briefing panel: Dr. Luis Garcia, PsyD, Vice President of Latino Program Development for Pacific Clinics; Kristina Baird, a student who received services through Pacific Clinics at her high school; and Kristina’s mother, Elizabeth Segura Vargas. “The topic of mental health continues to attract needed attention, but many are still suffering in silence due to stigma,” Napolitano said. “By talking to our family, friends, neighbors, and colleagues and by wearing lime green for May Mental Health Awareness Month, we are reducing stigma and elevating the issue of mental health to the same level as physical health. From First Lady McCray and Congressman Katko from the state of New York, to Kristina, Elizabeth, and Dr. Garcia from my state of California, we are reminded that mental illness knows no boundaries. We are so grateful to all of you for being here and participating in today’s discussion, emphasizing the critical need for early intervention and treatment to help our youth lead healthy, productive lives.” “Mental health is an issue that affects every family, in every community nationwide,” Rep. Katko said. “We need real and early intervention solutions in our care centers, in our schools, and in our communities. It is critical that we bring greater training and awareness for mental health to school districts across our country so that we are able to treat and build better lives for the many children whose lives are impacted by mental illness. I’m proud to be part of today’s discussion to facilitate that change and to fight alongside Rep. Napolitano for the Mental Health in Schools Act. I thank Rep. Napolitano for her leadership on this issue and First Lady Chirlane McCray for joining us in Washington today for this important discussion.” In November, led by First Lady McCray, New York City launched ThriveNYC, the nation’s most comprehensive plan to address mental health. With 54 programs and $850 million dollars, ThriveNYC addresses mental health risks at every stage life, including early intervention and prevention. Thrive also creates a framework for changing the culture of stigma and shame that prevents so many from seeking treatment and lays out a shared advocacy agenda to create a model other cities can follow. “But it’s not just adults who are suffering,” said First Lady Chirlane McCray. “According to a recent study, one in five children in the United States experience a mental disorder and are not getting the help they need, when they need it. In New York City, 27 percent of public high school students reported feeling sad or hopeless almost every day for the prior two weeks. And a shocking 8 percent of our high schoolers report having attempted suicide. Eight percent. The takeaway here is obvious and sobering: One way or another, every family in our nation has been touched by this crisis.” Dr. Garcia shared his experiences working with youth and their families, highlighting the successes of the youth suicide prevention program, for which Napolitano secured federal funding for four schools in 2001. The program has since expanded to provide services to 25 schools and serves as the model for H.R. 1211, the Mental Health in Schools Act. “Over the last fifteen years we’ve seen remarkable success locally by identifying the warning signs of mental illness. At this same time nationally we’ve seen the suicide rate increase dramatically,” said Dr. Garcia. “We must continue to address the stigma and shame through culturally and linguistically appropriate services to reach all communities. If we do that and work with many agencies to have a team approach, then we will continue to be successful.” Attendees also heard powerful testimony from Kristina Baird, who currently attends Citrus College in Napolitano’s district. Baird credited her relationship with her therapist and the support of her entire family for helping her open up about physical abuse that eventually led to emotional trauma and pain. “I remember the first day of therapy I was so afraid,” said Baird. “What I didn’t understand at the time was that not discussing my issue was what caused me many frustrations. I am truly grateful I had access to a hardworking therapist and so fortunate that I have a supporting mom and family. I am proud to be here today on behalf of so many young people across the country who desperately need assistance, and I encourage them to be strong and ask for help.” “I know in my heart, that the services we received at Pacific Clinics strengthened my daughter and our family,” said Segura Vargas. “Every day we continue to learn to cope. The reality of my daughter’s abuse will never be eliminated, but she now knows she will not be alone in her journey. I vow to support and strengthen her to no longer be victimized by her abuse.” Napolitano is the founder and Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, where she promotes access to mental health for children and adolescents, improved mental health resources for veterans and seniors, and increased mental health coverage for all. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act. # # #
05.10.2016	(San Dimas, CA) On Saturday, May 7, 2016, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held an awards ceremony honoring the winners and all participants of the 2016 Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 32nd Congressional District at the Walker House in San Dimas. “Our annual art contest never ceases to impress, showcasing some of the incredible talents of our young artists across the San Gabriel Valley,” Napolitano said. “This year’s contest continued the pattern of diverse entries, many representing issues of local and personal significance to our students. Thank you to the parents, mentors, and teachers for your encouragement, and to our gracious hosts, the City of San Dimas and the Walker House. Congratulations to all for sharing your artistic skills with the community, and we wish you continued success in all your pursuits.” Alejandra Quiroz-Garcia, an 11th grader at El Monte High School, took home first place with her work, “The Ladies.” “I wanted to represent women, especially women of color, because they do not get enough credit for the things they do,” said Quiroz-Garcia. “My hardworking mom and other strong women in my family were my inspiration for the piece. I hope people will see there is more to women than for which they are given credit and that they see the beauty in my drawing.” John Kovac, an art instructor at El Monte High School, spoke highly of Quiroz-Garcia’s unique ability to put a mood into her art. “Alejandra is one of the best I’ve ever worked with in 50 years of teaching art,” said Kovac. “She has the ability to put a mood into the artwork, an atmosphere to tell a story. A lot of people can make a nice rendering, but she’s able to put a story behind it.” For the next year, Quiroz-Garcia’s work will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building alongside other winning works of art from across the country. Napolitano’s office received 187 art pieces from 16 high schools throughout the 32nd Congressional District, including Arroyo High School, Azusa High School, Baldwin Park High School, Bonita High School, Covina High School, Duarte High School, El Monte High School, Gladstone High School, La Puente High School, Los Altos High School, Mountain View High School, Nogales High School, Northview High School, San Dimas High School, Sierra Vista High School, and West Covina High School. Winners: First place: Alejandra Quiroz-Garcia, El Monte High School. “The Ladies” Second place: Vanessa Arias, Gladstone High School. “The Best Way to Quit is to Never Start” Third place: Emily Farag, San Dimas High School. “Illumination” Judges’ Choice: Millyna Liu, Baldwin Park High School. “Paulina Serrano” Judges’ Choice: Vanessa Blandino, Duarte High School. “Sunset Elephant” Judges’ Choice: Kaylee Nguyen, Sierra Vista High School. “Hamburger” Honorable Mention: Devanna Cabrera, Arroyo High School. “The Lazy, The Curious & The Strong” Honorable Mention: Victor E. Soto, Bonita High School. “Cat Got Your Tongue” Honorable Mention: Alonzo Hernandez, Northview High School. “Pondering Pond” Honorable Mention: Andra Astorga, Sierra Vista High School. “Cherries” Honorable Mention: Dania Duran, Sierra Vista High School. “Spirit of Mystery-Boy With Hat” Honorable Mention: Hannah Huertas, West Covina High School. “Twin Lakes” The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of the participating Congressional Districts, and their artwork is put on display for a year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher. PHOTOS: A gallery of images can be found here. First place:napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/1stPlace2016.JPG Second place:napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/2ndPlace2016.JPG Third Place:napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/3rdPlace2016.JPG ###
04.18.2016	DSC_0952.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement after the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in U.S. v. Texas, the case regarding President Obama’s executive actions to provide temporary relief from deportation for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the United States as children and eligible parents of U.S. citizens and legal permanent residents: “Today is an important day for our great nation built by immigrants. My Congressional Hispanic Caucus colleagues and I have worked from day one with President Obama, encouraging him to act within existing law to offer relief from the fear of deportation for hardworking immigrant families, and we fully affirm his actions to create DAPA (Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents) and expand upon the successful DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) program. It is critical to remember that these actions have not yet taken effect, so beware of scammers and others who may attempt to defraud. “The law and the Constitution are on our side, just as they were with past presidents who acted in the same manner. We are confident that the justices understand what is at stake for the immigrant families that were both inside and outside the court room today, and that the justices understand why these lawful programs are important for our economy and communities. We believe the Supreme Court will ultimately embrace the contributions of hardworking immigrants and reject the hatemongers who seek to rip families apart.” # # #
04.15.2016	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) tentative decision to license Norwegian Air International’s (NAI) long-haul flight operations into the United States: “As a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I strongly oppose today’s decision by DOT. Norwegian Air is known to use unscrupulous business practices that violate U.S. and international labor laws and regulatory standards. Allowing this company to operate in the United States gives an unfair advantage against American companies, American workers, and our economy. “This is a tentative decision, and there will be further public comment and Congressional inquiry prior to a final decision being made on allowing NAI to operate in the U.S. I will be working with my colleagues on the Transportation Committee to reverse this tentative decision. If the Department does not change course, Congress must act to protect thousands of American workers who deserve to compete on an even playing field.” # # #
04.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Peter DeFazio (D-OR) and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Grace Napolitano (D-CA) introduced legislation that will help communities finance critical clean water infrastructure projects. The “Water Quality Protection and Job Creation Act of 2016”, would invest $20 billion over five years in wastewater infrastructure through the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and other efforts to improve water quality and create thousands of new, living wage construction jobs. “As recent events in Flint, Michigan; Toledo, Ohio; and Charleston, West Virginia, have shown, America’s water infrastructure is in dire need of renewed Federal investment. Currently, our communities face a backlog of over $40 billion in clean water infrastructure projects, and they need close to $300 billion of investment over the next 20 years to protect clean water and bring their systems to a state of good repair. We cannot continue to neglect the serious needs of our aging water infrastructure system. This legislation would help local governments repair and replace failing wastewater infrastructure, safeguard wastewater systems, and protect public health. I urge my Republican colleagues to support this legislation,” DeFazio said. “The Water Quality Protection and Job Creation Act will help to address the current crisis we are facing in the West due to ongoing drought and increased stormwater control issues. It makes tremendous investments in water recycling and reuse, groundwater recharge, and stormwater projects, priorities we have worked on for decades in Southern California. Our bill delivers critical assistance to cities and water agencies to meet the demands of their water customers with cost effective and reliable solutions, as well as construct stormwater systems to address Clean Water Act stormwater permits,” Napolitano said. Every Democrat on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure has cosponsored the legislation. Investing in clean water creates thousands of new, domestic jobs in the construction industry and reduces the overall costs of constructing and maintaining that infrastructure. According to National Utility Contractors Association, for every $1 billion spent on our Nation’s water infrastructure, 27,000 jobs are created in communities across America, while improving public health and the environment at the same time. In addition, according to the Water Environment Research Foundation, water, wastewater, and stormwater utilities will contribute $524 billion to the U.S. economy over the next decade, supporting 289,000 permanent jobs. Without Federal investment, municipalities will be forced to cover more than 95 percent of the cost of clean water projects. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estimates that municipalities currently face a backlog of over $40 billion in clean water infrastructure projects. Over the next 20 years, they will need to invest an additional $300 billion to bring water infrastructure systems up to a state of good repair. LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY Title I – Water Quality Financing · Authorizes $20 billion in Federal grants over five years to capitalize Clean Water State Revolving Funds (“Clean Water SRFs”). These funds provide low-interest loans and additional loan subsidizations (e.g., principal forgiveness and negative interest loans) to communities for wastewater infrastructure. · Authorizes $1.5 billion over five years for grants for State water pollution control agencies to implement State water pollution control programs. · Provides $600 million over five years for Clean Water pilot programs (including Federal technical assistance and/or grants) for watershed-based or system-wide efforts to address wet weather discharges, to promote stormwater best management practices, to undertake integrated water resource management, and to increase the resiliency of treatment works to natural or man-made disasters. · Authorizes technical assistance to rural, small, and tribal communities to assist them in gaining access to financing wastewater infrastructure. · Includes economic incentives to encourage the adoption of energy- and water-efficient technologies and practices to maximize the potential for efficient water use, reuse, and conservation, energy conservation, and realize the potential corresponding cost-savings for water treatment. Title II – Grants · Authorizes $2.5 billion over five years for grants to address combined and sanitary sewer overflows and recapture and reuse of municipal stormwater under section 221 of the Clean Water Act. · Authorizes $250 million in grants over five years for alternative water source projects under section 220 of the Clean Water Act, including projects that reuse wastewater and stormwater to augment the existing sources of water. --30--
04.08.2016	(El Monte, CA) On Wednesday, April 6, 2016, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano toured the newly opened student-run branch of Union Bank at Mountain View High School in El Monte. “We are so proud Mountain View is leading the way as our first high school in the San Gabriel Valley with a student-run branch on campus,” Napolitano said. “This not only teaches our students to make good financial decisions, it provides real-world experience in a professional setting, building important skills for work and customer service. It is also very inspiring to see our youth helping their peers, which offers them valuable mentoring opportunities while boosting financial literacy at a critical age. We are so grateful to Union Bank for partnering on this innovative program to help students develop tools for life-long success.” Located inside the Mountain View High School campus, the student-run branch is staffed by 10 student bankers who acquire skills in finance, as well as teamwork, leadership and the hands-on experience of working in a bank overseen by a seasoned Union Bank branch manager. The student bankers offer financial education workshops and classroom presentations to their peers as part of their learning curriculum, in an effort to expand the learning experience to other students at the school. “As a student banker at my high school I have learned the importance of being a professional and gained financial literacy skills,” said Giselle Barbosa, student banker, Union Bank Mountain View High School Branch. “I have learned that opening a savings account is the first step in showing financial responsibility. This may not seem like much but saving money will be useful in the future to help pay for college expenses.” “It was an honor to welcome Congresswoman Napolitano to our Mountain View branch and to give her a close look at how the student-run branch program works,” said Mountain View Branch Manager Anthony Barrios. “The students were excited to discuss what they’re learning and also had engaging questions for the Congresswoman, who saw first-hand that these future leaders are building life skills that will benefit them long after graduation.” On March 16, Union Bank and the El Monte Union High School District (EMUHSD) celebrated the grand opening of the Mountain View High School branch, marking the bank’s fifth student-run branch in California. The branch is open during the school year Tuesday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. It offers traditional banking products and services, such as checking and savings accounts, and ATM and debit cards, for students, faculty, and administrators. # # #
04.07.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on Azerbaijan’s latest military assault against Nagorno Karabakh: “I strongly condemn Azerbaijan’s most recent aggression against Nagorno Karabakh. Its use of military force has displaced and wounded dozens of innocent Armenians, claiming the lives of 27 members of the Nagorno Karabakh defense forces. “I joined dozens of my Democratic and Republican colleagues in March 2016, calling on President Obama and his administration to work with the two parties in advance of last week’s Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, DC to deescalate the ongoing situation. The fact this military assault occurred immediately following the summit is deeply troubling and proves Azerbaijan's President Ilham Aliyev is not committed to a peaceful resolution. The Azerbaijani government must be held accountable for these egregious acts, which are an affront to the people of Nagorno Karabakh exercising their right to self-determination. “Azerbaijan’s hostility toward Nagorno Karabakh continues to threaten the safety of innocent civilians and harm the prospect of lasting peace in the region. We must ensure that Azerbaijan does not violate the ceasefire agreement. I will continue to work with my colleagues to provide humanitarian assistance in Nagorno Karabakh and demand the suspension of US military aid to Azerbaijan until its government fully agrees to end cross-border attacks.” # # #
04.06.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement in reaction to reports that the U.S. Treasury Department is reviewing a proposal that could allow Iran to access the U.S. dollar for business transactions: “The reports that the Treasury Department might allow offshore banking sites to swap the Iranian rial for U.S. dollars are deeply concerning. Iran’s behavior since the implementation of the Nuclear Arms Deal illustrates what we feared: that Iran cannot be trusted to abide by the agreement. Iran continues to build up its cyber warfare capabilities, fund terrorism against our ally Israel, test-fire ballistic missiles, and violate human rights. “Allowing Iran to access the U.S. dollar would be seen as additional concessions and rewarding poor behavior. Iran does not deserve this benefit, which I am worried could be used to further finance global terror. I look forward to hearing from the Administration on the full details of this proposal, but I would expect the U.S. Government to enforce what has been laid out in the Nuclear Arms Deal.” # # #
03.22.2016	DSC_0919edit.jpg (WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement in recognition of World Water Day:“Today, March 22, 2016, is World Water Day, and we are reminded of the importance of this precious resource globally and in California. It also marks the second White House Summit on Water, a gathering of water leaders whose intent is to speak to the future of water management in the United States. We welcome the much appreciated water relief in the form of rain and snow to California, but we are far from replenishing our reservoirs and groundwater aquifers. Our diligence in conservation, efficiency, and wise water management must continue as the long-term prognosis for water in the West continues to diminish.“During my time in Congress I have focused on building collaboration and cooperation between the federal, tribal, state, and local water agencies. We must ensure affordable and clean water for all, not just for selected groups. We must also take the opportunity World Water Day presents to strengthen our resolve to find ways to build water sustainability and expand our local and regional water portfolio. “Leadership in water combined with research and innovative public private financing partnerships can provide a sustainable water roadmap for the future. So today when drinking a glass of water, think about where it comes from, how it is captured, transported, purified, and provided to you and your family. It takes many people to make the resource available, and together we can protect the quality, ensuring a reliable water supply for the future.” Napolitano, a long time champion of water recycling projects and a leader on California and national water issues, helped lead the effort last week to increase funding for the Clean Water Act State Revolving Fund (SRF) and the Drinking Water Act SRF programs to $2 billion each. She has also introduced H.R. 291, the Water in the 21st Century Act, which would provide $700 million in grants and $500 million in loans for water recycling, groundwater cleanup, stormwater projects, and water replenishment projects. Napolitano is the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee. # # #
03.22.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the terror attack in Brussels, Belgium: “The horrific terrorist attacks in Brussels this morning are inexcusable and demand action. Our hearts and deepest sympathies go out to the victims, their families, and many still waiting to hear from loved ones. This violence carried out on innocent men and women by the Islamic State is unconscionable, and Americans stand united with the Belgian people against these attacks. We will not live in fear and play into the terrorists’ hands. We will defeat this evil by remaining true to who we are.” Important message for U.S. citizens in Brussels: Shelter in place and avoid public transportation. For more security information, visit ‪go.usa.gov/c7Hbh. # # #
02.12.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Rob Wittman (R-VA-01), members of the House Natural Resources Committee, have introduced the Water Resources Research Amendments Act (H.R. 4497) to extend a Federal-State partnership aimed at addressing state and regional water problems, promoting distribution and application of research results, and providing training and practical experience for water-related scientists and engineers. “This legislation continues the commitment and partnership between the federal government and the states to collaborate and share costs on efforts to tackle short- and long-term water challenges,” Napolitano said. “The coordination between academia, the states, and the federal government is a measured approach, combining the best of our talents and knowledge to address our nation's water issues in a cost-effective and timely manner. New funding opportunities will greatly expand our water portfolio in Southern California and across the country, helping grow our water workforce for the future and delivering the most current data to combat drought.” “Independent review has confirmed that the benefits the Water Resources Research Institutes provide in Virginia and in other states far outweigh the expenditures,” Wittman said. “This grant matching program has been instrumental, for example, in efforts across Mid-Atlantic states and in the Commonwealth to keep the Chesapeake Bay and our other water resources clean. Its localized approach has resulted in the development of innovative solutions—like urban storm water treatment and improved roadway design—to address particularized water quality and scarcity issues in the Bay and across the United States.” H.R. 4497 would authorize $9,000,000 annually over five years for grants to water resources research institutes and require two-to-one matching with non-federal funds. It would also promote exploration of new ideas, expand research to reduce energy consumption, and bolster reporting and accountability requirements. Napolitano continues to emphasize the importance of dialogue between all sectors and utilizing the latest research and technology in developing a sustainable water future, holding public forums in Los Angeles County with leaders of industry, government, and academia. She is the Ranking Member on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water, Power, and Oceans Subcommittee. # # #
02.11.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) offered an amendment during the full Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup of the FAA reauthorization bill to strike section 611 which would preempt states from setting meal and rest break laws to protect truck drivers. Her amendment was defeated by a partisan vote. “States should be allowed to set meal and rest break standards as they see fit for the health and safety of their workers,” Napolitano said. “Section 611 has no place in this aviation bill as this provision addresses motor carrier labor standards, which we already debated in the recently passed surface transportation bill. I led the effort on the FAST Act Conference Committee to stop this provision from being included in the final FAST Act because Congress should not interfere with state laws.” Napolitano vowed to offer her amendment again when the legislation comes before the full House of Representatives for consideration. Her amendment was supported by the Owner-Operated Independent Truck Drivers, the State of California, and the Teamsters. Background: · On July 9, 2014, the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that trucking operators in California must abide by California labor law and allow for a 30-minute meal break after 5 hours of work and a 10-minute rest break after 4 hours of work. This meal and rest break standard is very reasonable, considering truck drivers can be subject to 14 hours of on-duty time. · Section 611 goes farther than just overturning the federal courts decision protecting California truck drivers. It would also preempt laws in 21 states and territories that guarantee meal and rest breaks. · These states include: Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New York, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. # # #
02.09.2016	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed new federal funding for Los Angeles County El Niño flood control projects and improvements to our ports, announced in President Obama’s 2016 Army Corps of Engineers’ (Corps) Work Plan: “I met with Army Corps officials multiple times over the last few months in advance of El Niño storms, urging them to provide more funds for flood control operations in LA County,” Napolitano said. “This funding not only helps clear channels for flood control, but the additional storage that is made available in reservoirs from improved maintenance can also lead to more water supply through recharge of the aquifers.” The Corps’ Work Plan includes $4,590,000 to perform preventative maintenance activities in preparation for El Niño throughout LA County, critical funding Napolitano had requested for Southern California. Napolitano has also worked with the Corps for years to implement more equitable funding allocations out of the National Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. Because her amendment was included in the FY2016 Omnibus, the Corps’ Work Plan has provided $5,570,000 to remove contaminated sediment from the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach and improve shipping operations by dredging deeper channels. “We are elated the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach will finally receive a fairer share of funding to cover the costs of critical maintenance dredging,” continued Napolitano. “We have fought hard for equity, and the additional dollars out of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund will bring much needed assistance to the busiest ports in the U.S., which receives more than 40% of our nation’s goods.” Napolitano is the Ranking Member on the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, which has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
01.12.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following response to President Obama’s final State of the Union address: “Tonight our President reminded us we have made important progress over the last seven years, and more must be done. Our economy has rebounded from recession with the addition of nearly 900,000 jobs from manufacturing, many of these thanks to businesses across the San Gabriel Valley, confirming this growth and our path forward. “The President cautioned us not to let politics get in the way, as we look to build on progress made. Thanks to our cooperative work on the Transportation funding bill, good-paying jobs will be added to help rebuild Southern California’s infrastructure, making daily commutes faster and safer. We must employ this same spirit in tackling climate change and preparing our communities for future drought cycles. “Joining the President’s commitment to making sure everyone has a fair shot in the economy, we remain dedicated to growing the middle class and assisting hardworking families through equal pay for equal work, paid leave, and raising the minimum wage. We all agree making college more affordable is essential, but we must also strengthen our workforce and invest in job training for our workers, to prepare them to be our future leaders. “We thank the President for improved service delivery to our troops and veterans and for working with us to eradicate veteran homelessness, but we can and must do more. We will continue to work to ensure our region’s veterans and their families have access to job training, housing, medical treatment, and mental health services; benefits they have earned and deserve. “More focus and funding should be placed on mental health to ensure future generations of youth will be productive members of society. Through increased awareness and education of warning signs and symptoms, we are reducing stigma and letting everyone know it is always okay to seek help. “Our President urged all of us to rise to challenges by drawing on our unique strengths as a nation, such as optimism, work ethic, and diversity. It is my great honor to continue working on behalf of the people I represent to address the challenges facing our region, no matter how difficult or unexpected they may be. I look forward to continuing to work with all San Gabriel Valley elected officials, businesses, and residents to meet the needs of our communities, adding to the progress we have made together.” # # #
01.07.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) commended the State Water Resources Control Board for authorizing the sale of $1.2 billion in revenue bonds for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund. “We commend Chairwoman Felicia Marcus and her board’s decision, and welcome new funding for water quality and recycling projects, the fastest and most cost effective way to improve water supply in our region,” Napolitano said. “These additional grants and loans will greatly assist water agencies in planning, designing, and building recycling plants and water infrastructure which will directly benefit our entire state. El Niño precipitation may temporarily lift the current historic drought, but we must continue to prioritize water efficiency and recycling projects that will create jobs and prepare our communities for future drought cycles." The State Water Board authorized the sale of revenue bonds on Tuesday to meet financing demands for water projects and prepare California for increased demand in the coming years. The Clean Water Fund provides low-interest loans for the construction of publicly-owned wastewater treatment facilities, local sewers, sewer interceptors, water recycling facilities, and storm water treatment facilities. “Water recycling expands and strengthens our state’s water portfolio and protects our citizens and businesses from future water restrictions,” Napolitano added. “With reduced funding from the federal government these funds will help achieve timely development of water without costly delays and litigation due to other proposed state and federal water projects. This saves our taxpayers money and most importantly, protects their access to a dependable local water supply.” Napolitano, a long time champion of water recycling projects and a leader on California and national water issues, has introduced H.R. 291, the Water in the 21st Century Act, which would provide $700 million in grants and $500 million in loans for water recycling, groundwater management, stormwater, and water infrastructure projects. She is the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
01.05.2016	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) attended the White House ceremony where President Obama announced new Executive Actions to reduce gun violence. “We commend and support President Obama’s efforts to reduce gun violence and are especially grateful for his focus on mental health as one of the key components of gun safety. His new $500 million investment will help restore some of the all-so-necessary funding to deliver mental health services to all. There is a desperate need for treatment and services for people suffering mental health crisis, and we must continue to do our utmost to reduce the stigma. We need to invest more in educating our friends, families, and neighbors on the warning signs of mental illness and encourage those in need to seek help. “All too often mental illness is a scapegoat when gun tragedies occur, and the President’s focus on reduction of gun violence to make our communities safer is what Americans have been asking for. It is a fact that those with mental illness are far more likely to be victims of crime than perpetrators. We are thankful to our President for his taking of executive actions, renewed focus and investments in mental health, helping reduce stigma, and for his sensitivity toward millions of Americans living with mental illness. “We need more communication between local, state, and federal agencies, so those who should not have a gun do not have access to one. Increasing and strengthening our background check system is a first step to ensure only responsible individuals are buying and selling guns, helping to close loopholes. Nowhere in these actions is there anything that would remove guns from those who already own them. I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to fully fund these investments in mental health and strengthen these gun safety measures taken by the President today, actions supported by the vast majority of Americans. The time to act is now.” Napolitano also met with President Obama last evening, joining her fellow House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force members for a preview of today’s announcement. She was appointed to serve as a Vice Chair of the Task Force three years ago to address mental health as a component of gun violence prevention. She is also Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
12.11.2015	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on efforts to address California’s drought: “We have been working for many years, even prior to this current five year drought, on improving water supply in California. Senator Boxer and I reintroduced W21 (H.R. 291) at the beginning of this year to provide funds for California drought relief for water conservation, water recycling, groundwater improvement, and integrated stormwater projects—proven to be the most cost effective and beneficial water projects in Southern California. “Last Friday we were made aware of a California water bill that House Republicans wanted to include to the Omnibus spending measure to fund government programs. This Republican bill was never agreed to by me or my local water agencies. I have been very clear with my colleagues that in order to support a final bill it would need to go through the normal process with the inclusion of all California Members and water agencies. A bill of this importance to California’s water system would need to be made public for all Californians to review and provide feedback, as drought affects our entire state. “We firmly support Senators Feinstein and Boxer in their similar requests to work through regular order and receive critical input from all water stakeholders prior to passing a bill in Congress. I strongly oppose this attempt by House Republicans to include a secret California water bill into the Omnibus that was never made public and is in stark contrast to the commitment Speaker Ryan has made to have Congress operate under the normal policymaking process.” Napolitano is the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
12.03.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) applauded House passage of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act), a bipartisan, long-term transportation bill that will create family-wage jobs, rebuild and replace the nation’s aging infrastructure, and boost the economy. The FAST Act passed by a vote of 359 to 65. “This very thorough, very bipartisan jobs bill will boost American manufacturing and provide much needed certainty for long-term infrastructure planning,” Napolitano said. “It will greatly improve the commute of my constituents, enhance transportation of goods to market, and increase transportation safety and air quality throughout our region. I have been honored to serve on the Conference Committee, thanks to Leader Pelosi’s appointment, on behalf of the San Gabriel Valley, and we thank our transportation stakeholders whose input will not only help California, but constituencies across our nation.” The FAST Act is a five-year, fully paid-for surface transportation reauthorization of federal highway, transit, highway safety, motor carrier safety, hazardous materials, and passenger rail programs. The bill provides long-term certainty for states and local governments, strengthens Buy America provisions that create jobs and boost American manufacturing, and increases funding for freight projects, public transit, Amtrak and transportation alternatives. As a conferee to the FAST Act House and Senate Conference Committee, Napolitano was able to secure major victories for California, which will receive over $26 billion to fix crumbling roads, bridges, and transit systems: Local Control - Increased Local Suballocation of Transportation FundingIncreases percentage of funds that flow directly to local regions (instead of the State) within the Surface Transportation Program (STP) from the current 50% to 55% (1% per year). This issue was supported by CAL COG and local CA Transportation agencies. Transit Funding Increases Provides $13 billion over 5 years for the state of good repair transit formula program. These funds are distributed to state and local governments for repairs and upgrading of rail and bus rapid transit systems. This is a 20% increase over current funding. The bill provides $3.7 billion over 5 years for bus and bus facilities and sets aside $1.5 billion for a competitive bus grant program. This is a 75% increase over current funding. California Transit agencies strongly supported increased transit funding. Allowing Paratransit Coordinated Fare Structures to Continue – Los Angeles County IssueAllows Access Services, the paratransit provider of Los Angeles County to continue using a tiered, distance-based coordinated fare system. For over 20 years, Access Services has had a DOT approved tiered fare structure that averages all the fares of 44 transit agencies into 2 fares. For riders traveling under 20 miles the fare is $2.75 and for riders traveling over 20 miles the fare is $3.50 (these paratransit fares are dramatically lower than the rest of the country). DOT was going to require Access Services to change their fare structure by Jan. 1, 2016 based on confusing formulas for each individualized trip a disabled customer takes. 95% of the public comments from the ADA community strongly opposed this change. This provision will allow Access to continue operating with their current tiered fare structure. Freight ProgramsCreates two funded freight programs. The first is a Formula Freight program funded at $6.3 billion over 5 years, which is allocated to the states. The second is a Nationally Significant Freight and Highway Projects Competitive grant program funded at $4.5 billion over 5 years that state and local governments can apply for. Creating these funded freight programs was big priority of California Transportation agencies including Caltrans, California Association of Councils of Governments, League of CA Cities, Metropolitan Transportation Commission of the SF Bay Area, Southern California Association of Governments, San Diego Area Association of Governments, L.A. Metro, and Sacramento Area Council of Governments. In addition, language was included that many CA Transportation agencies care about to make local transportation agencies (such as JPA’s) eligible recipients of grant funds and to address local environmental impacts of freight movement. Railway Highway Grade Crossing ProgramMaintains the current railway-highway grade crossing program and increases funding by $5 million/year to $245 million in FY20. California Transportation agencies, including the Alameda Corridor East Construction Authority in my district strongly support this program because safety issues around highway rail grade crossings are a big concern in our state. Positive Train Control GrantsProvides $199 million for positive train control grants that commuter railroads can apply for. This was a big priority of Metrolink as they are currently developing and implementing positive train control safety systems. WIFIA FIX IncludedFixes a problem with the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) loan program from WRRDA 14 that prohibited local water agencies from combining tax exempt debt (i.e. municipal bonds) with WIFIA loans. This Conference Report changes that and allows water agencies to use municipal bonds (which are a major source of their revenue) as the local match to federal financing provided by the WIFIA. This fix to WIFIA was strongly supported by CA water agencies including ACWA and CASA. A full summary of key issues for California included in the Conference Report on the FAST Act can be viewed here. # # #
12.02.2015	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), released the following statement on the mass shooting which occurred today at the Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino: “It is unthinkable this violence was carried out at a center whose employees serve people with developmental disabilities and their families. Our prayers are with all victims of this senseless attack, with their families, and with the entire San Bernardino community. We commend all—including law enforcement personnel—who immediately responded and continue to deal with an active shooter situation, and we pray for their safety. “We do not know the motive yet, but the President is right; we must do more to keep weapons out of the hands of people with violent histories. Day after day our hearts are broken by acts of gun violence, and today our region is experiencing this unimaginable tragedy. This must stop.” Napolitano is a Vice Chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. If you or someone you know is experiencing emotional distress, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990. # # #
11.17.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, H.R. 3114, the Army Corps of Engineers’ Veterans Curation Program (VCP) Act, sponsored by Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Rodney Davis (R-IL-13), passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 422 to 3. “Thank you to all of our colleagues in helping us make permanent this worthwhile program by passing this legislation for our veterans,” said Napolitano. “Congressman Davis and I are grateful for this chance to provide our veterans with job training assistance, leading to healing and helping them and their families re-integrate to become more productive. We urge the Senate to work quickly and pass it, so the President may sign it immediately into law.” “The Veterans Curation Programs throughout the country, including the program near my district in St. Louis, have helped more than 200 veterans build on the skills and training they've received in the military and transition to a new career here at home,” said Davis. "I've seen firsthand the positive impact this program can have in a veteran's life and the great work they've done in the St. Louis area restoring important historical photographs and documents. I appreciate my colleagues' support for this important program.” The VCP preserves the Nation’s cultural and archeological resources with curatorial services according to professional museum and archival practices, preparing our veterans for employment in these areas. H.R. 3114 permanently authorizes funds for the Corps to hire veterans—some disabled—to carry out these responsibilities. Currently, there are VCP laboratories in Augusta, GA, Washington, DC, and St. Louis, MO, providing veterans with a 5-month program of training and employment in curatorial services. 241 veterans have gone through the program, and there currently is a class of 38 veterans. As a direct result of this program, 139 veterans have obtained permanent employment, and 39 have continued their education, either at colleges, universities, or in certificated programs. The VCP is providing long-term savings to the Corps, and to our nation, through more efficient and effective management of their archeological and historical collections, making this historical collection readily available to the American public. H.R. 3114 now moves to the Senate for consideration. Ranking Member Napolitano and Davis sit on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. # # #
11.14.2015	(EL MONTE, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement regarding the death of Nohemi Gonzalez, a San Gabriel Valley native who was killed in yesterday’s terrorist attacks in Paris: “We offer our deepest condolences to the family of Nohemi Gonzalez. We continue to be in prayer for all those who knew and loved Nohemi and respect her family’s wishes to have privacy during this time. Our hearts go out to all of the victims’ families and all of the people of France. They are in our prayers.” # # #
11.09.2015	IMG_7116.JPG (West Covina, CA) On Saturday, November 7, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) held a successful military academy information session at West Covina Senior Citizen Center where students, parents, and educators had a chance to learn more about educational opportunities in our nation’s military academies. “If you really want this, you can make it happen,” Napolitano challenged the students. “Everyone here today believes in you and will continue to support you, but you have to believe in yourselves in everything you do. The service academies have developed some of our nation’s best leaders, and many of their journeys began where you are sitting today. We wish you the very best in your application process and in all your endeavors. Be proud, and stand tall.” Approximately 75 attendees spoke with and heard presentations by representatives from West Point and the Naval, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Merchant Marine service academies as well as the National Guard. Our nation’s military service academies are consistently ranked by U.S. News and World Report as some of the most selective and competitive colleges in the world. Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. Interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in El Monte by Friday, November 20, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit https://napolitano.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations) • One or two letters of recommendation • A personal statement indicating why you should be considered • High school and/or college transcripts • Copy of SAT or ACT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (626) 350-0150. # # #
11.05.2015	The bipartisan surface transportation bill authorizes $325 billion over 6 years for highway, transit, and highway safety programs. (WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) hailed the passage of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (STRR Act), which continues to fund critical essential highway construction, highway safety, and transit programs through September 2021. The STRR Act ultimately passed by a vote of 363 to 64. “This long-term bill is a product of great bipartisan compromise that will create jobs and keep our economy moving,” Napolitano said. “We are glad our California priorities were reflected in so many provisions in the bill, and we thank our local and state transportation agencies for helping us ensure our state’s needs were met. The San Gabriel Valley is home to one of the nation’s busiest rail and trucking corridors, and increased safety through highway rail grade separation projects will continue to allow for safe transport of goods through our region to the rest of the country. I want to thank Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio for all of their great work on this bill.” Napolitano, the highest ranking Californian on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, sent a letter in June with 37 members of the California Democratic delegation outlining priorities of the state of California for a long-term transportation bill. Through amendments and her tireless work on the Transportation Committee, she was able to secure many of these provisions in the final version of the STRR Act, including: · Creating a funded freight program to improve goods movement while mitigating the impacts on local communities a. Supported by Caltrans, California Association of Councils of Governments, League of California Cities, Metropolitan Transportation Commission of the San Francisco Bay Area, Southern California Association of Governments, San Diego Area Association of Governments, L.A. Metro, Sacramento Area Council of Governments · Maintaining the Railway-Highway Crossings Program a. Supported by Caltrans, Alameda Corridor East · Including local transportation agencies as eligible recipients of grant funds a. Supported by California Association of Councils of Governments · Reinstating dedicated funding for local bridges on the federal highway system a. Supported by California State Association of Counties · Opposing efforts to require or incentivize the outsourcing of public engineering, design, and inspection services on transportation projects a. Supported by Professional Engineers in California Government · Funding for transportation alternatives, such as walking and biking a. Supported by Caltrans, California Association of Councils of Governments, Southern California Association of Governments, San Diego Area Association of Governments, L.A. Metro, Sacramento Area Council of Governments · Allowing for park and ride relinquishment to local agencies a. Supported by Caltrans, L.A. Metro · Reforming HOV access and degradation standards to improve alternative fuel vehicle usage a. Supported by Caltrans, L.A. Metro, Orange County Transportation Authority Following passage, Napolitano was appointed to the STRR Act Conference Committee, a select bipartisan group of House and Senate lawmakers tasked with writing the final version of the highway bill. “We will fight for more funding to repair the critical infrastructure millions of Southern Californians rely on daily,” Napolitano added. “I look forward to meeting with fellow conferees and continuing to represent the San Gabriel Valley on this issue.” # # #
10.22.2015	(WASHINGTON, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement after H.R. 3763, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act, passed the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee during a full committee markup: “This long-term, bipartisan transportation bill will expand much needed services that Californians rely on every day. We were glad to receive valuable input from local entities to ensure our state’s needs were met. We would have liked a larger investment in transportation infrastructure, but this is a good bill that will keep our nation and economy moving forward.” H.R. 3763 passed the Transportation Committee unanimously and has been placed on the House Calendar for consideration by the full House of Representatives. Napolitano is the highest ranking Californian on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. # # #
10.14.2015	(WEST COVINA, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited patients at the West Covina DaVita Kidney Care Dialysis Center, discussing the need to expand access to high-quality medical care for those suffering from end stage renal disease (ESRD). “Our visit to DaVita was eye-opening and an important reminder of how critical access to medical care is for the entire San Gabriel Valley,” Napolitano said. “It was very moving to speak with patients who require dialysis—some who are here two or three times a week. We are so grateful to the entire health care team at DaVita for both the first-class care they provide and also the educational outreach they do in our communities to prevent kidney disease.” Napolitano toured the out-patient dialysis facility, which serves approximately 100 patients, the vast majority of whom reside within the 32nd District. She also voiced her support for the bipartisan Chronic Kidney Disease Improvement in Research and Treatment Act (H.R. 1130), which would increase eligibility for Medicare Advantage for individuals with ESRD and allow dialysis facilities to provide kidney disease education services. “Our local communities are fortunate to have access to this specialized care for patients with ESRD, but there are far too many communities who do not,” Napolitano added. “H.R. 1130 is needed to ensure more patients suffering from kidney disease are able to receive the proper care they need and to raise awareness for this serious health concern.” Today over 26 million American adults are living with chronic kidney disease (CKD), which, untreated, can ultimately progress to kidney failure. Currently, more than 635,000 Americans suffer from ESRD and approximately 450,000 are on dialysis – including 81,019 in California. DaVita Kidney Care partners with service providers throughout the region to promote kidney health, offering free training sessions at local centers or online for those with questions about kidney disease. To learn more, visit kidneysmart.org. # # #
10.08.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) demanded action to prevent gun violence in America, one week after the horrific shooting at Umpqua Community College in Oregon. “If not now, when? We have been asking that for many, many generations. American families are crying out, demanding Congress to act. They want action, but Congress has not considered any bills; they refuse. There is nothing of substance being given an opportunity to be shown the light of day or to have some transparency on this issue. The last meaningful gun violence prevention bill was in 1994, the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. Now, shootings, as was pointed out, are an everyday occurrence and it is commonplace. People are becoming numb, except for those that are immediately affected. They are asking us to move and pass legislation, give it the light of day, discuss it, bring it up, start some methodology to be able to understand what Congress is looking at doing for our American people, for our children, for our families.” “Collective action is needed, and transparent discussion is necessary, but enough of skirting this issue. What is more important? Gas and oil, or the lives of human beings? We must keep guns away from people that should not have them, those who may harm themselves or others. H.R. 1217 mandates universal background checks for all gun purchases. It is a step in the right direction and would move our country forward, beginning the process of addressing this epidemic we are facing. “We need real, constructive legislation to prevent and lessen violence. We must keep guns out of the hands of people that should not have access to them, such as domestic abusers and people with violent histories, without stigmatizing those with mental illness. We need to inform, educate, and help young people, families, educators, those who are exhibiting emotional disturbances, and help them learn how to access information and assistance.” Napolitano later voted to bring up H.R. 1217, the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act. The motion was defeated by a vote of 244 to 183. Napolitano is a Vice Chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and the Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. Her entire floor statement can be viewed here. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
10.01.2015	DSC_0531edit.jpg (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) congratulated CBS on winning an Emmy for “Challenge Academy,” its 7-part series chronicling the Sunburst Youth Academy in Los Alamitos, California. “We are thrilled CBS has been awarded an Emmy for bringing awareness and much deserved recognition to the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program (NGYCP),” Napolitano said. “This Emmy also belongs to the entire Sunburst family—the nearly 400 annual graduates, current cadets, the dedicated National Guard cadre and Orange County Board of Education, mentors, and all the family members who help their loved ones get back on track. Expanding the program into Los Angeles County is critical, as 75% of the cadets enrolled at Sunburst are from LA County. We congratulate the folks at CBS and thank them for believing in our youth, who continue to show courage to achieve a second chance.” “CBS did a phenomenal job capturing what the nation's 36 National Guard ChalleNGe programs do to turn around lives of this at-risk population,” said Lt. Col. Joel Armstrong, Director of the Sunburst Youth Academy. “We are honored to serve as a driving force that gives them a second chance to become productive citizens and tomorrow's leaders.” California has two NGYCPs—Sunburst and Grizzly, located at Camp San Luis Obispo—and a third in Stockton is anticipated to begin in 2016. NGYCP is a 22-week joint federal-state partnership run by the National Guard that enhances life skills, education levels, employment potential, and prospects for the future by providing the assistance, training, and opportunity for students to earn their high school diploma or GED, at no cost to the cadet. Napolitano is the Co-chair and founder of the bipartisan Congressional Youth ChalleNGe Caucus. “Challenge Academy” recently won the Emmy for Outstanding Continuing Coverage of a News Story in a Regularly Scheduled Newscast. The 7-part series produced by CBS Evening News with Scott Pelley can be viewed here: • Segment 1: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/national-guard-puts-dropouts-on-new-track/ • Segment 2: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/dropouts-become-cadets-gaining-confidence/ • Segment 3: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/family-day-at-sunburst-youth-challenge-academy/ • Segment 4: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/for-troubled-teens-in-national-guard-camp-a-visit-home-may-be-toughest-challenge-yet/ • Segment 5: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/sergeants-tough-love-helping-to-reform-troubled-teens/ • Segment 6: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/dropouts-transformation-moves-parents-to-tears/ • Segment 7: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/fresh-start-for-young-grads-of-national-guard-program/ # # #
10.01.2015	(Monrovia, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) marked October as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, issuing the following statement: “It is a privilege to continue working with Congresswoman Chu and so many other local heroes in our fight to end domestic violence. The emotional wounds inflicted by domestic violence are often invisible, so increased mental health awareness is critical to ensure those in need seek help." # # #
09.24.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) released the following statement on His Holiness Pope Francis’ speech to Congress: “Pope Francis was more than gracious in spreading his message of charity, tolerance, peace, understanding, and unity, one we can all understand in this very turbulent world we live in. He spoke a universal language that was inclusive, reminding us that we are all children of God. The Holy Father challenged us to embrace the responsibilities we have, especially those of us in Congress, to those less fortunate. “The constituents who came from my area voiced their deep praise and admiration of the Pontiff’s outreach to the world. They are proud of the fact he did come to deliver a heartening message to all people in America, preaching love and acceptance. Wherever Pope Francis went during his time in DC he was received with open arms, tearful eyes, and children running to him. “He is hopefully going to be changing the church from within by his acts, persona, and how he envisions the Catholic church. I think it will grow if he continues this, and more young people will be involved. This is a new world, and he is with the new world. He understands the needs of all people.” # # #
09.11.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, after thorough consideration, including input from her district, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) voted against the proposed Iran Nuclear Arms Deal. “In March 2014 I signed a letter with 393 of my colleagues requesting the President to work closely with Congress to require Iran to abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons. Congress has always been the world leader on imposing critical sanctions on Iran. We do not want to send our young men and women back into another war. I voted against President Bush’s authorization in 2002 to use military force in Iraq and would again strongly oppose sending our troops into harm’s way in the Middle East. “All reports and information available to us on Iran’s prior and current behavior indicate Iran is not to be trusted to abide by its portion of the deal, and I cannot support the proposed agreement. Several pieces of the deal leave a lot to be desired to protect the U.S. from a country that despises America. “I share my constituents’ concerns that sanctions relief will fund state-sponsored terrorism. A nuclear Iran would further destabilize the region and create an arms race in the Middle East. Since this deal was sent to Congress for review, Iran has continued to threaten the security of our nation and allies in the region.” # # #
09.10.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and John Katko (R-NY-24) recognized World Suicide Prevention Day by co-hosting a briefing examining federal investments in suicide prevention. “On World Suicide Prevention Day we are fortunate to have national organizations here to brief Members of Congress and their staff on suicide prevention methodology, training, and funding. With suicide attempts among youth on the rise and 22 veterans dying by suicide daily, it is time we invest in suicide prevention to reduce mortality rates just as we have for HIV/AIDS, heart disease, and other leading causes of death,” said Congresswoman Napolitano. “We also need to ensure medical institutions train all personnel to recognize the warning signs and symptoms to prevent suicide ideation and attempts. We are very thankful for Congressman Katko’s willingness to work collaboratively on suicide prevention. We look forward to continuing to work together to reduce stigma, secure new funding, and raise critical awareness for mental health." “Sadly, suicide has impacted far too many families across our country. As we honor World Suicide Prevention Day, I was proud to join my colleague Rep. Napolitano and some of our national partners in mental health to host today’s discussion and raise awareness for suicide prevention,” said Congressman Katko. “It is my hope that together, we can help to combat the prevalence of suicide and provide greater support for individuals who suffer. Mental health is an issue that must be continually brought to the forefront for significant change to occur, and I thank Rep. Napolitano for her leadership on this issue.” Representatives from the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) joined Napolitano and Katko for a briefing and panel discussion, illustrating how investments in suicide prevention research are severely lagging compared to research on other leading causes of death. “The recent findings of the Mental Health and Suicide Survey show the vast majority of American adults think suicide requires more research to save lives. With this knowledge, as a country, we must invest more of our efforts into suicide prevention research, including barriers for seeking help, understanding of the risk factors for suicide and ways to effectively reach those in suicidal despair,” said Dr. Doryn Chervin, Executive Secretary of the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention and Vice President and Senior Scientist at Education Development Center, Inc. “Through wide scale research, we will learn of better ways to support, treat and care for those struggling with mental health conditions and suicidal thoughts. It’s all about saving lives.” “Researchers have made notable progress in learning what we can do to reduce suicide risk in health care settings, such as better risk detection and effective treatments that reduce suicidal behaviors,” said Dr. Jane Pearson, Chair of NIMH’s Suicide Research Consortium. “We now need to scale-up this knowledge so it guides everyday practice. Health care systems willing to implement and test evidence-based approaches are our natural partners. These learning health care systems provide an ideal platform for improving patient care and reducing suicide outcomes in the short-term, and driving the scientific agenda for future risk detection and prevention studies." “AFSP thanks Representatives Grace Napolitano and John Katko for their leadership on suicide prevention and mental health issues,” said John Madigan, Vice President of Public Policy for AFSP. “Suicide is a major public health crisis in the United States. Congress should approve at least $125 million in NIMH funding for suicide prevention research. History has shown the direct correlation between federal investment in NIH medical research and the decrease in mortality for many other diseases.” Background: · World Suicide Prevention Day, started in 2003, is held annually on September 10th to raise awareness that suicide is preventable and to decrease the stigma surrounding mental health. · Suicide has an estimated $44 billion cost due to work loss and medical care (AFSP). · Over 40,000 Americans die by suicide every year, and it is the 10th leading cause of death in the United States. · Napolitano is the Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. She secured federal funds for a youth suicide prevention program in 2001, after learning that one in three Latina teens had contemplated suicide. Four local schools partnered with health care provider Pacific Clinics to offer on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. With Los Angeles County assistance, the program has since expanded to 26 local elementary, middle and high schools and currently has a waiting list. · The program serves as a model for H.R. 1211, the Mental Health in Schools Act, bipartisan legislation which would create a total of $200 million in grant funding for 200 schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide early intervention and preventive services for young people with mental health issues. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). The full briefing can be viewed here: https://bit.ly/1JYPLTa ###
08.27.2015	(Pomona, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) held a public forum with local residents and leaders of industry, government, research, and academia at Cal Poly Pomona University to discuss how to achieve a sustainable water future for Southern California. “We must collaborate to address our state’s ongoing drought crisis and prepare for the future,” Napolitano said. “Today we continue the important dialogue from two years ago, and we are pleased to bring together so many entities invested in water. Our drought challenges are more severe now, and a stronger, more comprehensive approach is needed.” Today’s forum grew out of the water workshop held two years ago at Metropolitan Water District of Southern California Headquarters and coincided with the State Water Resources Control Board's announcement of conservation numbers for July 2015, indicating a 28.3% reduction in water use in the South Coast hydrologic region, which encompasses Napolitano’s San Gabriel Valley-based district. More than a dozen speakers and panelists offered insights into how to expand Southern California’s water portfolio in a sustainable manner. “It was great to see how we are working together to talk about these problems, how what we are doing at the state level is informed by NOAA, NASA and others,” said Janelle Beland, California Natural Resources Agency Undersecretary. “Today’s forum was a really good opportunity to showcase the coordination taking place as we consider our water future.” Approximately 150 people attended the forum with the goal of continuing a water conversation and setting a different tone in addressing Southern California’s water future. Panelist presentations and discussions among participants also highlighted ongoing challenges the region faces in working toward a sustainable water future. “The largest obstacle we face is cost,” said Caitrin Phillips Chappelle, Associate Director of the Public Policy Institute of California.” Everything Southern California and other parts of the state want to do to diversify water supplies is expensive. Raising funds locally, getting state and federal support, and trying to maintain affordable water prices are our greatest challenges.” “It is critical that we fund and share new technologies, research, and innovation; science must be a part of our policy discussions,” Napolitano added. “We must continue to educate each other and the public because without water, we have nothing.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. All presentations by panelists will be uploaded following the event and can be accessed here. ###
08.19.2015	IMG_1395.JPG (Whittier, CA) Today, Rep. Napolitano (D-El Monte) attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the final phase of the Recycled Water Project at Rose Hills Memorial Park and Mortuary, calling for more investment in recycling projects across the region. “We congratulate Rose Hills on this critical water recycling project which will improve water efficiencies during this drought and for our future,” Napolitano said. “Water recycling is the most cost effective way to improve water supply within our region, and we must encourage more San Gabriel Valley businesses to make similar investments.” Upon completion of its project—targeted for Q4 of 2015—Rose Hills Memorial Park and Mortuary will use 100% recycled water for irrigation and landscaping maintenance. Others participating in the groundbreaking were Bruce Lazenby, Executive Director of Business Development, Rose Hills; Pat Monroe, President, Rose Hills; Fernando Dutra, Mayor, City of Whittier; Ann Heil, Section Head, Monitoring, Sanitation Districts of LA County; Sarah Rascon, Office of Assemblymember Jimmy Gomez; and Mike Touhey, Board President, Upper San Gabriel Valley Municipal Water District. Napolitano, a strong supporter of water recycling projects throughout her years in Congress, has introduced H.R. 291, the Water in the 21st Century Act, which would provide $700 million in grants and $500 million in loans for water recycling, groundwater management, stormwater, and water infrastructure projects. She is the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and a current member and former Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. ###
08.13.2015	IMG_1913edit.jpeg (El Monte, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited Custom Alloy Light Metals in the City of Industry and Brackett Field Airport in the City of La Verne, discussing local job creation and transportation issues. “Custom Alloy is recycling aluminum waste in an environmentally-friendly way, which is then turned into usable alloy bars to make household appliances, cars, airplanes, and many other aluminum-based products. Much of the aluminum extracted is sold to businesses in California, boosting our manufacturing sector and sustaining American jobs.” Napolitano said. “Brackett Field has served LA County’s aviation needs for more than 75 years, prioritizing the safety of its workers, pilots, and passengers. From business travel and flight training to emergency preparedness and response, it continues to provide critical services to residents and communities across the San Gabriel Valley.” Custom Alloy Light Metals produces aluminum ingots (small bars of aluminum) from recycled aluminum scrap, which are then sold to parts makers and manufacturers--70% remains in the United States. Employing 75 full-time workers, Custom Alloy supports Bassett High School in La Puente through an annual student essay contest for a scholarship and a charity golf tournament. Later Napolitano visited Brackett Field Airport, a general aviation (small planes) airport owned and operated by Los Angeles County, which supports approximately 200 jobs. LA County Aviation Director Richard Smith briefed Napolitano on airport operations, nonaeronautical revenue generation, contract air traffic control, and also led a tour of the air traffic control tower and the flight school. Napolitano is the highest ranking California member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which may consider a bill to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) this fall. ###
07.23.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, H.R. 3114, the Army Corps of Engineers’ Veterans Curation Program (VCP) Act, sponsored by Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Rodney Davis (R-IL-13) passed the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee during a full committee markup. “We appreciate the Committee’s leadership, moving forward on this legislation to put our nation’s veterans first,” said Napolitano. “Our brave men and women have served us honorably, are our nation’s best workers and individuals, and must be our top priority in hiring decisions. H.R. 3114 offers one more way veterans can gain critical job skills with additional training, while assisting the Corps’ management of their archeological and historical collections. Congressman Davis and I are proud to sponsor this legislation, and we ask all of our colleagues to join us in support of our nation’s vets.” “The Veterans Curation Programs throughout the country, including the program near my district in St. Louis, have helped more than 200 veterans build on the skills and training they've received in the military and transition to a new career here at home,” said Davis. “I've seen firsthand the positive impact this program can have in a veteran's life and the great work they've done in the St. Louis area restoring important historical photographs and documents. I appreciate the committee's quick action on this bill and the bipartisan support from my colleagues today.” H.R. 3114 would authorize the VCP, which trains and utilizes veterans in carrying out the Corps’ curatorial responsibilities. Created in 2009, the VCP protects and preserves the Nation’s cultural and archeological resources with curatorial services according to professional museum and archival practices. Currently, there are VCP laboratories in Augusta, GA, Washington, DC, and St. Louis, MO, providing veterans with a 5-month program of training and employment in curatorial services. Of the 203 graduates of the program to date, 87 percent have gone on to either permanent employment—in museums, forensics, administrative, and records management—or to continuing education. The VCP is providing long-term savings to the Corps through more efficient and effective management of their archeological and historical collections, making this historical collection readily available to the American public. H.R. 3114 passed the Transportation Committee unanimously and has been placed on the House Calendar for consideration by the full House of Representatives. Ranking Member Napolitano and Davis sit on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Napolitano's full statement can be viewed here. # # #
07.01.2015	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Napolitano (CA-32) visited Northrop Grumman in Azusa and CODA Energy in Monrovia, promoting local manufacturing and job creation in the San Gabriel Valley. “Local manufacturing ensures jobs for San Gabriel Valley residents and American competitiveness abroad,” Napolitano said. “We applaud Northrop Grumman’s leadership on developing technology to address current and future water needs, especially in this historic drought. The smarter, cleaner energy storage systems made at CODA Energy are saving businesses money and moving us toward a sustainable energy future. We will continue to work with all local businesses to meet the needs of our changing economy, and we look forward to helping them take their businesses abroad at our annual exports seminar in October.” Northrop Grumman employs 960 workers at its Azusa facility, manufacturing sensors for missile warning satellite systems and weather satellite systems. Last year NASA awarded Northrop Grumman of Azusa a $121 million contract for the construction and implementation of a new weather forecasting instrument. CODA Energy has 65 employees and is a leading provider of scalable energy storage systems that support a smarter, cleaner and more reliable grid. Its storage and battery management systems help commercial and industrial facilities reduce costs, control consumption, and manage risk associated with energy use. ###
06.30.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), with support from 37 California Democratic Members of Congress, sent a list of priority transportation projects and policies to House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio, urging the priorities to be included in any future long-term Transportation Bill. The letter includes 21 transportation reauthorization priorities and calls for increased investment in transit and passenger rail and the creation of a freight program. “Our top priority in a long-term transportation bill remains the safety of all those traveling on our roads, highways, bridges, and railways,” Napolitano said. “We must ensure federal funding for the thousands of California jobs responsible for the safe transport of people and goods throughout our state. Our priorities for reauthorization will help increase the speed, safety, and reliability of our transportation systems, promoting economic growth in our state for years to come.” Napolitano, the highest ranking Californian on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, was joined in sending the letter by: John Garamendi, Janice Hahn, Jared Huffman, Julia Brownley, Maxine Waters, Xavier Becerra, Ana G. Eshoo, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Sam Farr, Zoe Lofgren, Loretta Sanchez, Brad Sherman, Mike Thompson, Susan A. Davis, Michael M. Honda, Adam B. Schiff, Linda T. Sanchez, Jim Costa, Doris O. Matsui, Jerry McNerney, Judy Chu, Karen Bass, Ami Bera, Tony Cardenas, Alan S. Lowenthal, Raul Ruiz, Eric Swalwell, Mark Takano, Juan Vargas, Mark DeSaulnier, Ted Lieu, Norma J. Torres, Jackie Speier, Barbara Lee, Lois Capps, Scott Peters, and Pete Aguilar. “As Members of the California Delegation, we respectfully request that the surface transportation bill include provisions that are important to our state,” the Members wrote. “We greatly appreciate your ongoing work in drafting a long-term reauthorization bill that will rebuild our crumbling infrastructure and invest in our future. We ask for your strong consideration of these proposals that will benefit our nation.” Transportation reauthorization priorities for California include: 1) Providing for a long-term, well-funded transportation bill 2) Increasing transit funding 3) Investing in passenger rail 4) Creating a funded freight program 5) Maintaining the Railway-Highway Crossings Program 6) Allowing for a local hiring preference on transportation projects 7) Including local transportation agencies as eligible recipients of grant funds 8) Reinstating dedicated funding for local on-system bridges 9) Opposing efforts to require or incentivize the outsourcing of public engineering, design, and inspection services on transportation projects 10) Creating an America Fast Forward Bonds program 11) Increasing funding for transportation alternatives such as walking and biking 12) Improving the Surface Transportation Project Delivery Program 13) Allowing for park and ride relinquishment 14) Reforming HOV access and degradation rules 15) Allowing for electric vehicle charging stations at public rest stops 16) Reauthorizing the electric vehicle charging property tax credit 17) Providing pre-tax transportation benefit parity 18) Continuing the alternative transit fuel tax credit 19) Rural Broadband Deployment 20) Improving the Small Transit Intensive Cities (STIC) Program 21) Re-establishing the High-Risk Rural Roads Program The full letter sent to Transportation Committee leadership can be viewed here. # # #
06.12.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), voted to protect San Gabriel Valley families and jobs by opposing Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), which would give away Congressional authority to finalize trade agreements, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). “Free trade hurts San Gabriel Valley families and businesses and is anything but free. We cannot keep running up deficits and ask hardworking Americans to bear the costs. We have seen in our region the devastation trade agreements have caused our middle class families, displacing workers and shipping local jobs overseas. These agreements are unfair to U.S. workers and small businesses. They benefit huge corporations and foreign countries while limiting opportunities at home, and TPP would do much of the same. We should be focusing on passing a long-term transportation bill that will create local jobs and improve our roads, bridges, and public transit systems. It is critical we have reliable infrastructure to remain competitive in the global economy." “To further insult hardworking Americans, TPA or Fast Track would ensure TPP and other trade agreements are negotiated in secret, without public input until deals are finalized. This strips me of my ability to protect the hundreds of constituents who have contacted my office opposing TPP; they are rightly concerned. Fast Track is undemocratic, and TPP is the wrong deal for America. Instead we should be promoting fair trade that will protect American jobs, strengthen our democracy, and safeguard workers’ rights at home and abroad.” # # #
06.10.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), Ranking Member on the House Transportation Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, reflected on the one-year anniversary of the enactment of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA) and urged adoption of reforms to address the ongoing drought in the West. “The Corps has been a little slow to implement the reforms contained in WRRDA 2014 – implementation guidance has been issued for only 40% of the provisions. I would have hoped that the Corps swiftly embraced the reforms of WRRDA 2014 but I worry that declining budgets have limited your ability to complete this work. “I would like to thank the Corps for the great degree of flexibility and responsiveness it has shown in Southern California as we respond to the historic continuing drought. The deviation at the Whittier Narrows Dam will eventually increase the amount of water captured and conserved for groundwater recharge in the area and is indicative of the types of solution-oriented flexibility we need to deal with drought conditions, especially with regard to the acceptance of non-federal funds to help on important projects. With no end in sight for the drought, I expect that there will be many more opportunities in the future to all work together on not only Californian water conservation efforts, but all Western states. “I am concerned that the Corps has not issued any guidance for section 1046 of WRRDA 2014, a section intended to assess the management practices of Corps’ reservoirs in arid regions of the country and their impacts to water supply during period of droughts. The findings of this assessment and your recommendations could be part of the solution to the drought.” Napolitano and fellow Subcommittee members heard directly from Jo-Ellen Darcy, Assistant Secretary of the Army—Civil Works; and Lieutenant General Thomas P. Bostick, Chief of Engineers, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on the status of WRRDA implementation. Napolitano called for increased communication between the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee and the Corps to better address drought and urgent water needs of all Americans, stating, “We must continue to expand the dialogue between the Corps and our Subcommittee, so we can move towards achieving a common goal of meeting our nation’s water resource needs in an expedient manner that protects public safety, allows for economic activity, and ensures the protection and improvement of the environment.” Napolitano’s full opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. # # #
05.28.2015	DSC_0531.JPG (El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined representatives from local government, law enforcement, non-profit, and higher education entities on a tour of Sunburst Youth Academy—one of California’s National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Programs (NGYCP)—located on the Joint Forces Training Base in Los Alamitos. “We are so grateful to everyone who came today and hope they spread the word on why this program must be expanded to serve more forgotten youth,” Napolitano said. “We welcome all to come to Sunburst, speak directly to our young cadets, and see the transformation that takes place. Youngsters enter Sunburst feeling like they cannot do anything and leave feeling like there is nothing they cannot do.” Joining Napolitano on today’s visit were: Kathryn Barger and Anna Mouradian, deputies to LA County Supervisor Michael Antonovich (5th District); Roberto Viramontes, deputy to LA County Supervisor Hilda Solis (1st District); Theresa Goldman, Commander at the Glendale Police Department; Antonia Hernandez, President of the California Community Foundation; and Terri Carbaugh and Thomas O’Brien from California State University—Long Beach. They toured the campus, heard first-hand accounts from cadets, and met with Sunburst Youth Academy Director, LTC Joel Armstrong. “Some graduates of the program recently came up to me and told me they were working two jobs,” Napolitano added. “It is amazing to see them blossom and so rewarding to see the results.” California has two NGYCPs—Sunburst and Grizzly, located at Camp San Luis Obispo—and a third in Stockton is anticipated to begin in 2016. NGYCP is a 22-week joint federal-state partnership run by the National Guard that enhances life skills, education levels, employment potential, and prospects for the future by providing the assistance, training, and opportunity for students to earn their high school diploma or GED, at no cost to the cadet. Napolitano is the Co-chair and founder of the Congressional Youth ChalleNGe Caucus. ###
05.27.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), the Ranking Member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, praised the public release of the final Clean Water Protection rulemaking by the Obama administration. This rulemaking fulfills the requests of members of Congress, state and local officials, industry, agriculture, and environmental organizations to clarify the scope of Clean Water Act protections over our nation’s rivers, streams, and wetlands. “We have waited 12 years for clarity. For 12 long years, our nation’s streams and rivers have been vulnerable to pollution and degradation, and for 12 years, farmers, industry, and developers have been wasting valuable time and money navigating through the regulatory morass on the Clean Water Act left behind by the U.S. Supreme Court and the Bush administration. The Obama administration, and especially EPA Administrator McCarthy and Assistant Secretary Jo-Ellen Darcy, should be commended for their dedication to provide a clear, predicable, and comprehensive way of protecting our nation’s waters,” said Napolitano. Today’s final rulemaking to define the term “waters of the United States” is the culmination of 12 years of debate, over one year of public comment, and unprecedented outreach by the Obama administration to provide additional clarity and certainty on the scope of waters protected by the Clean Water Act. During that time, as administration witnesses testified before the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, the EPA and the Corps of Engineers received over 1,000,000 public comments on the proposed Clean Water Protection rulemaking, and held over 400 public meetings to discuss the proposed rulemaking, and to solicit recommendations for additional clarity and certainty. “I, for one, am pleased with the changes this administration committed to make to address concerns raised by our constituents on the April 2014 proposed Clean Water rulemaking, especially ensuring that the rulemaking did not, inadvertently, change the status of municipal stormwater conveyances, water recycling or groundwater recharge areas. It is apparent that this administration heard these concerns, listened to them, and made appropriate changes in the final rule to address these concerns. This final rule is significantly improved from the April 2014 proposed rule, and provides a more definitive, more measurable, and clearly limited scope of Clean Water Act authority, based on the science and the law,” noted Napolitano. “Over the past year, the administration has highlighted the importance of protecting our rivers, streams, and wetlands to protect our water, our Nation’s economy, and our cherished way of life – not only for current generations, but for our children and our grandchildren. As the events of the past few years in the West have demonstrated, water is a precious resource that deserves critical protection. In fact, the 99.2 percent of Californians that drink water from public systems that rely on the seasonal, rain-dependent, and headwater streams will greatly benefit from this final rulemaking in the protection of these critical resources,” added Napolitano. “As we ask the average Californian to be mindful of his or her daily water usage, we need to ensure that upstream interests share in this effort – this is a fundamental premise of this final rulemaking.” “The Obama administration has met its commitment to protect our precious water resources for generations to come; now it is our turn to fulfill our duty to protect these resources. I only hope that those groups that have historically been opposed to reinvigorated protection of our Nation’s rivers, streams, and wetlands, take the time to read this final rule BEFORE they consider opposing it,” concluded Napolitano. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. The Subcommittee has Congressional jurisdiction over the Clean Water Act and this finalized rule. EPA’s Clean Water Act Webpage - https://www2.epa.gov/cleanwaterrule # # #
05.26.2015	DSC_0208_0.JPG (Baldwin Park, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte), the Baldwin Park Unified School District (BPUSD), and Kaiser Permanente Baldwin Park hosted an assembly for students and parents from De Anza Elementary School to address the issue of conflict management, promote mental wellness, and reduce stigma associated with mental illness. “If you or a classmate is struggling, speak up. Remember, it is always okay to ask for help,” Napolitano told students. “Parents and teachers, we appreciate your constant support of our children, and we encourage you to continue to promote mental wellness at home and in the classroom. Many thanks to BPUSD and Kaiser Permanente Baldwin Park for helping us fight stigma and putting children’s mental health—an issue near and dear to my heart—at the forefront. We must continue to address this critical issue throughout the year, not just during the month of May.” In observance of National Mental Health Awareness Month, Kaiser Permanente’s Educational Theatre Program performed “It’s Stop Time,” a 50-minute play designed for students in grades 3-5, that highlights the importance of self-efficacy in managing conflict. Both parents and students in attendance were entertained by a vibrant cast of characters who learned best practices when dealing with tense situations—they learned to stop, breathe, and choose an appropriate course of action. Exposure to violence can lead to negative mental health outcomes including substance abuse, depression, and suicide, so managing conflict before it leads to more serious consequences is a critical component of fostering mental wellness. Background: Napolitano secured federal funds for a youth suicide prevention program in 2001, after learning that one in three Latina teens had contemplated suicide. Four local schools partnered with health care provider Pacific Clinics to offer on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. With Los Angeles County assistance, the program has since expanded to 26 local elementary, middle and high schools and currently has a waiting list. The program serves as a model for H.R. 1211, the Mental Health in Schools Act, bipartisan legislation which would create a total of $200 million in grant funding for 200 schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide early intervention and preventive services for young people with mental health issues. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. ###
05.13.2015	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP) held a briefing featuring testimonies from survivors of suicide as part of a series of mental health discussions on Capitol Hill during the month of May. “Thank you all for being here today to reduce stigma and continue spreading the word about National Mental Health Awareness Month,” Napolitano said. “We are especially grateful to our brave survivors for sharing their stories so others may find the courage to speak up and seek help. Thank you for bearing your souls. Together we can continue to promote mental wellness, end stigma, and save lives.” Briefing panelists from AFSP shared their personal stories of recovery and hope. They provided critical insights into living with the experience of suicide, including ideation and attempts. “It is okay to speak up and share your story,” said Taryn Aiken, AFSP volunteer, Utah Chapter. “When it’s dark you’ve got to have the courage to reach out so that someone can be there to grab you and help you find hope. Because hope is what will save our lives.” “Most people don’t worry about suicide until it happens to them, be it a family member or friend within their community,” said Brandon Marsico, ASFP volunteer, South Central Pennsylvania Chapter. “It’s important to reach out and know that mental health is just like physical health. Your brain is part of your body, and we need to look at mental illness the same way we look at heart disease or cancer.” “No one is immune from mental illness or suicide. That arrogance almost cost me my life. It can happen to anyone, anywhere,” said Shelby Rowe, Education and Prevention Programs Manager at AFSP, formerly of AFSP Arkansas Chapter. “If you find yourself at risk, reach out for help. There is never any shame in that.” “Talking about suicide can save lives,” said Doreen Marshall, Senior Director of Education and Prevention at AFSP. “Our hope is that by sharing these powerful stories we will encourage others who are suffering from mental health conditions to reach out and get treatment.” Background: · Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death for Americans and costs the U.S. more than $44 billion annually (AFSP). · For every suicide there are 25 suicide attempts (AFSP). · Napolitano secured federal funds for a youth suicide prevention program in 2001, after learning that one in three Latina teens had contemplated suicide. Four local schools partnered with health care provider Pacific Clinics to offer on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. · With Los Angeles County assistance, the program has since expanded to 26 local elementary, middle and high schools and currently has a waiting list. · The program serves as a model for H.R. 1211, the Mental Health in Schools Act, bipartisan legislation which would create a total of $200 million in grant funding for 200 schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide early intervention and preventive services for young people with mental health issues. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). The full briefing can be viewed here: https://youtu.be/g-kOm5fc6v8 For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. ###
05.12.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) spoke against H.R. 1732, a reckless, partisan attack on the Clean Water Act: “I oppose this bill because it simply does not work. The sponsors of this bill claim it will not kill the ongoing rulemaking, but only tell the Army Corps of Engineers and EPA to do the rulemaking over again. Yet, just two weeks ago, House Republicans voted to prevent the agency from taking any action to change the current rules. So, which is it? “Many of us had concerns with the original proposed rule, but I appreciate that the Administration has addressed my concerns, and has addressed most of the concerns of the states and stakeholders. The Administration has also pledged to work with stakeholders on implementation once the rule is final. “We have waited 12 years for clarity. For 12 long years, our nation’s streams and rivers have been vulnerable to pollution and degradation, and our government has spent millions of dollars working on bringing clarity to the decisions made by the Supreme Court. Delaying this further would cost the American taxpayer many more millions of dollars. Intervening now and forcing the Administration to start over again, particularly when we are on the cusp of clarity, is reckless. Let the Administration finish this rulemaking in the next few months, and let’s protect the water we have left.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. Her entire floor statement can be viewed here. Background: · The Executive Branch has been trying to clarify the scope of the Clean Water Act since January 15, 2003, when the Bush Administration released their Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for public comment. · Since 2003, there have been 6 attempts by the Executive Branch to release their interpretation of the Waters of the United States. · Clean Water Rule – California Fact Sheethttps://protectcleanwater.files.wordpress.com/2015/03/clean-water-rule-california-fact-sheet-protectcleanwater.pdf # # #
05.05.2015	Winners 7.jpg (San Dimas, CA) On Saturday, May 2, 2015, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) held a ceremony honoring the winners of the 2015 Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 32nd Congressional District at the Walker House in San Dimas. “It is a tremendous honor to join all the proud parents, teachers, friends, and family to recognize so many talented youngsters today,” Napolitano said. “Thank you to the city of San Dimas and the Walker House for once again showcasing the artwork and hosting our awards ceremony. We congratulate all students who submitted entries and wish them the best in their future artistic endeavors.” Aliss Cordon of Sierra Vista High School won first place with her work, “An Old Man’s Dream.” “It was an amazing experience to be in front of the audience at the ceremony. I never thought I would be able to do that,” Cordon said. “There were so many incredible pieces of artwork, I feel like many others could have been selected. I am humbled with this opportunity to go to Washington. I give thanks to God, my teacher, parents, judges, and Congresswoman Napolitano for this opportunity.” For the next year, Cordon’s work will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building alongside other winning works of art from across the country. Napolitano’s office received a record 304 art pieces from 19 high schools throughout the 32nd Congressional District, including Azusa High School, Baldwin Park High School, Basset High School, Bonita High School, Covina High School, Duarte High School, El Monte High School, Gladstone High School, Los Altos High School, La Puente High School, Mt. Olive High School, Mountain View High School, Nogales High School, Northview High School, San Dimas High School, Sierra Vista High School, South Hills High School, and William Workman High School, and the Waverly School.Winners: First place: Aliss Cordon, Sierra Vista High School. “An Old Man’s Dream” Second place: Dayna Murri, Bonita High School. “Daffodils” Third place: Sabrina Rodriguez, La Puente High School. “Maria” Judges’ Choice: Jesus A. Gutierrez, Covina High School. “Schizophrenia” Judges’ Choice: Thomas Beach Tucker, Bonita High School. “The Land Forgotten” Judges’ Choice: Lilianna Fournier, Bonita High School. “Cactus Flowers” Honorable Mention: Edith Figueroa, Sierra Vista High School. “Psychedelic Rock” Honorable Mention: Alexander Torres, Sierra Vista High School. “A Lantern on Chinese Culture” Honorable Mention: Celeste Gonzalez, Sierra Vista High School. “Dove Seasons” Honorable Mention: Daniel Chan, Northview High School. Untitled Honorable Mention: Samantha Gonzalez, Northview High School. “Tracks Z” Honorable Mention: Dallas Bagshaw, Bonita High School. “The Misty Meadow Music Maker” The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of the participating Congressional Districts, and their artwork is put on display for a year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher.PHOTOS: A gallery of images can be found at www.facebook.com/RepGraceNapolitano. First place:napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/1stPlace2015.jpgSecond place:napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/2ndPlace2015.jpgThird Place:napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/3rdPlace2015.jpg ###
05.01.2015	(Washington, D.C.) Last night, the House passed Rep. Grace F. Napolitano’s (CA-32) amendment to H.R. 2028, the FY2016 Energy & Water Appropriations Act, ensuring more fairness for the Ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach, and other donor ports across the country. “Our bipartisan amendment provides more fairness to how we distribute harbor maintenance dollars,” Napolitano said. “Last year the users of the Ports of LA and Long Beach paid $263 million in harbor maintenance taxes and received $0 back in harbor maintenance. Now these and other donor ports will receive a fairer share of funding, which will be used for costly repairs, infrastructure improvements, and maintenance.” Napolitano offered the amendment along with House Transportation Committee Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR-04) and Rep. Ted Poe (R-TX-02). Napolitano is the Ranking Member on the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, which has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Her full floor statement can be viewed here: https://youtu.be/3ZNwvVvPokA. Background: · The National Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund collects payments from ports across the country for the maintenance dredging of U.S. harbors. · California ports only receive 15% back of what their shippers pay into the Fund. However, last year, due to inequitable allocation funding formulas the Ports of LA & Long Beach received 0%. · Bipartisan passage of the Water Resources Reform & Development Act of 2014 (WRRDA) required the Army Corps of Engineers to allocate at least 10% of Harbor Maintenance Funds to all donor ports for expanded uses, including berth dredging, removal of contaminated sediment, environmental remediation, and or funds to continue to use their ports. · The Napolitano/DeFazio/Poe amendment requires the Corps to implement these funding allocations, which were not included in the Corps’ FY2016 Budget. · Letter of Support from the American Association of Port Authorities:https://1.usa.gov/1FCtry9 · Letter of Support from the Port of Los Angeles: https://1.usa.gov/1JWUNxW ###
04.30.2015	DSC_0890.JPG (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), mental health advocates, and other Members of Congress marked the beginning of National Mental Health Awareness Month and recognized Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day on Capitol Hill. “We are pleased to be joined by so many advocates to help de-stigmatize mental health, an issue that affects millions of Americans,” Napolitano said. “We will be hosting events throughout the month of May—National Mental Health Awareness Month—to educate ourselves and the public on this critical issue. We encourage all to take action and help fight stigma. Please do not be afraid to speak up and ask for help.” “The shame has to stop, the stigma has to end,” said Jill Diamond, Multiple Emmy Winner and Chair of World Boxing Cares. “We are isolating our friends and families who suffer and are afraid to ask for help. This May we have an opportunity to make a difference, and the World Boxing Council and the North American Boxing Federation will be wearing their green ribbons at every fight to help knock out stigma.” “NAMI applauds Congresswoman Napolitano for her commitment to early identification and intervention through school-based mental health programs,” said Darcy Gruttadaro, Director of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Child & Adolescent Center. “NAMI looks forward to working with the Congresswoman and members of Congress to help ensure that those with early mental health conditions receive the services and supports they need.” To kick off National Mental Health Awareness Month on Capitol Hill Napolitano held a press conference with advocates wearing green ribbons to show support for May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. Following the press event the group gathered with Members of Congress on the Capitol steps for a photo showing their support for mental health. In the afternoon Napolitano and mental health professionals held a legislative briefing and panel discussion in recognition of Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day (observed nationally on May 7). Sponsored by NAMI, the National Federation of Families for Children’s Mental Health, Mental Health America, the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, and the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, the briefing focused on proven services and supports that can help with the early identification of mental illness and the benefits of early intervention in a school-based setting. Napolitano and her colleague, Rep. Chris Gibson (R-NY-19), are the lead sponsors of H.R. 1211, the Mental Health in Schools Act. This bipartisan legislation would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. H.R. 1211 is patterned after a successful pilot program started in 2001 in Napolitano’s area, which began in four schools that has now expanded to 26 schools throughout California’s San Gabriel Valley. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). The full press conference can be viewed here: https://youtu.be/S3zQ8iv_-1Y The full briefing can be viewed here: https://youtu.be/jf6nH8gBigc
04.13.2015	IMG_6845.JPG (El Monte, CA) On Friday, April 10, 2015, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored the 2015 Women of the Year “Unsung Heroines” for exemplary service at an award ceremony at the Grace T. Black Auditorium in El Monte. “You volunteer from your heart, and you are the role models who inspire others to serve,” Napolitano told the honorees. “Your compassion, hard work, enthusiasm, and creativity—with a lot of understanding—makes a world of difference. We sincerely thank you and your families.” “My family drove me to begin volunteering,” said Jackie Higashiyama of Citrus College Veterans Success Center. “My husband is a Vietnam War veteran, my mom is a Korean War vet and my son is an active U.S. airman.” “Volunteering needs to be cultivated at a young age,” said JoGina Carrillo of the City of El Monte. “It begins with the parents. They can help their to accomplish so many different things for their communities through volunteering.” “It is an incredible, unexpected honor to receive this award.” said Rowena Magalad of East Valley Boys & Girls Club. “At the Boys and Girls Club we believe it is our responsibility to serve the community and the people who are the future of this nation.” “I think that young girls should give back to their community, but they must first find their passion,” said Joannie Yuille of the City of Monrovia. “If you volunteer in an area of your passion, you can hold to your commitment. That is what touches hearts and changes lives.” 19 women received the award. Each woman’s name was submitted by her volunteer organization or community group that felt her contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked the women personally. The 2015 Women of the Year: Laura Arechiga, City of El Monte Parks, Recreation & Community Services Department – El MonteAlicia Ayala, Neighborhood Homework House – AzusaJoGina Carrillo, City of El Monte–Hon. Victoria Martinez – El MonteJosephine “JoJo” Cronin, Baldwin Park Adult & Community Education – Baldwin ParkMaxine Dulake-McGrane, City of Covina – Hon. Jorge Marquez – CovinaAnna Lee Farber, West Covina Lions Club – CovinaIrene Fleck, Friends of the West Covina Library – West CovinaPatricia Gonzalez, Baldwin Park United Methodist Church – Baldwin ParkRosie Herrera, City of Azusa – Mayor Joseph R. Rocha – AzusaKristine Hesse, The Vet Hunters Project – El MonteJackie Higashiyama, Citrus College Veterans Success Center – GlendoraRenee Hrey, City of La Puente–Mayor Violeta Lewis – La PuenteFaith M. Lundgren, City of Industry/Industry Manufacturers Council – City of IndustryRowena "Mai" Magalad, East Valley Boys & Girls Club – La PuenteJamie Neri, City of El Monte Television Channel 3 – El MonteVivian Olivas, Baldwin Park Woman's Club – Baldwin ParkEsther Rodriguez, Hacienda-La Puente Unified School District – City of IndustrySuzanne St. Pierre, La Verne Chamber of Commerce – La VerneJoannie Yuille, City of Monrovia – Mayor Mary Ann Lutz – Monrovia ###
04.01.2015	IMG_3002.JPG (City of Industry, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited Commercial Cooling and Jacmar Foodservice Distribution in the City of Industry to discuss local economic issues and ways to promote job creation. “The City of Industry continues to attract businesses to our San Gabriel Valley, stimulating our economy and providing much needed jobs,” Napolitano said. “We applaud Commercial Cooling for their commitment to American manufacturing and congratulate them on their new internship program. We also celebrate Jacmar Foodservice Distribution’s decision to remain in the area, moving their headquarters to a new, larger distribution center here in the City of Industry. This allows them to hire more workers and continue to serve our region.” Joining Napolitano and her staff on today’s business visits were City of Industry Mayor Tim Spohn and City of Industry Chamber of Commerce Director Don Sachs. “Today was a great opportunity to have the Congresswoman come out to the City of Industry and tour a couple of the businesses we have,” Spohn said. “It shows that the City of Industry is working hard to provide places for businesses to thrive and create employment opportunities here in the San Gabriel Valley.” Commercial Cooling has 58 full-time employees and specializes in manufacturing walk-in coolers and freezers. They recently partnered with the City of Industry and six local schools to place students graduating from high school that do not intend to go to a four year college, into a job setting of their interest, that may result in a full-time position. Jacmar Foodservice Distribution provides supply chain solutions and serves the complete needs of the restaurant industry in all of Southern California and Las Vegas, Nevada. They employ nearly 100 workers and maintain a second distribution facility at their former headquarters in Irwindale. # # #
03.18.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, called for a balance of economic growth and public health at a hearing on the Administration’s FY2016 Budget for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “One of the greatest challenges facing our nation today is its crumbling infrastructure,” Napolitano said in her opening statement. “Over the years, I have listened to countless mayors, city and county officials, and stakeholders discuss the water-related challenges in our communities, and about the seeming lack of progress in addressing these challenges. We must agree on the need to balance healthy economic growth and protecting the health of the public and the environment for generations to come. In my own district, the health of our local economies is integrally tied to the health and availability of our natural resources – and specifically the availability of clean, safe drinking water.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. Her full opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. # # #
03.13.2015	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and LA County Department officials visited the Sunburst Youth Academy—one of California’s National Guard Youth Challenge Programs (NGYCP)—located on the Joint Forces Training Base in Los Alamitos. “Today’s visit reinforces why Sunburst delivers the best bang for the buck, assisting so many of our region’s youngsters in need of a second chance,” Napolitano said. “We are pleased so many LA County Sheriff's and Probation Dept. officials are willing to be here to learn about the growth and transformation that takes place through mentorship and discipline. Our continued thanks to the dedicated National Guard cadre, local school faculty, and boosters for encouraging these cadets to persevere and emerge better able to succeed.” Napolitano and LA County officials toured the campus, visited with cadets, and met with Sunburst Youth Academy Director, LTC Joel Armstrong and SGT Hector Ruiz. Everyone was impressed with Sunburst and agreed NGYCP must be expanded to serve more forgotten youth. “I am inspired by what I heard and saw here today,” said 5th District Bureau Chief Paul Vinetz, LA County Probation Dept. “This program is remarkable, and what they learn here is one of the most important things we can do for young people,” said Chief Buddy Goldman, LA County Sheriff’s Dept.—South Patrol Division. “Empowering the choices life is about—you are here to learn how to make good choices and be responsible,” said Megan Reed, Executive Director of the Sheriff’s Youth Foundation—LA County Sheriff’s Dept., encouraging Sunburst cadets. Others visiting Sunburst today included: LA County Probation Dept. Division Directors Jose Juarez, Lori Placide, Deborah Dominguez-Lares, Hania Bocklen, and Eduardo Silva; and Dr. Cuauhtemoc Avila, Assistant Superintendent, Educational Programs—LA County Office of Education. California has two NGYCPs—Sunburst and Grizzly, located at Camp San Luis Obispo—and a third in Stockton is anticipated to begin in 2016. NGYCP is a 22-week joint federal-state partnership run by the National Guard that enhances life skills, education levels, employment potential, and prospects for the future by providing the assistance, training, and opportunity for students to earn their high school diploma or GED, at no cost to the cadet. Napolitano is the Co-chair and founder of the Congressional Youth Challenge Caucus. # # #
03.04.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) hailed the passage of H.R. 749, the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation to reauthorize the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak) for four years. “Our long-term plan reauthorizes the intercity passenger rail grant program—rewarding states like California that invest in their own passenger rail systems—by providing additional grant funding,” said Napolitano, who spoke in support of the bill during consideration by the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. “We commend our bipartisan Committee leadership for drafting this critical legislation which will create jobs, strengthen our economy, and provide our constituents with better service.” As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, Napolitano fought to include in the final bill key priorities for California’s Department of Transportation (CALTRANS), including the creation of a much-needed State Supported Routes Advisory Committee, which gives states a greater say in passenger rail decisions. Another priority that was included requires the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) to provide states with detailed financial and ridership information so they can better plan and budget for their routes. “These important changes will help our states have a stronger voice with FRA and Amtrak, giving them the necessary resources to make more accurate decisions about rail routes and improvements,” Napolitano added. H.R. 749 was passed by the House of Representatives today with large bipartisan support by a vote of 316-101 and is expected to be passed by the Senate soon. Background: · H.R. 749 authorizes $7.2 billion for passenger rail over the next four fiscal years (FY 2016 – FY 2019) o $5.8 billion for grants to Amtrak; o $1.2 billion for grants to States; and o $96 million for the Amtrak Inspector General. · California has 3 of the top 5 busiest intercity rail corridors in the U.S.: o Pacific Surfliner (From San Diego through Los Angeles to San Luis Obispo) o Capitol Corridor (From San Francisco through Sacramento to Auburn) o San Joaquin Corridors (From Bakersfield to Oakland and Sacramento) · H.R. 749 will help California by reauthorizing intercity passenger rail grant program at $300 million annually. · It restructures funding according to Amtrak’s major lines of business in order to provide greater transparency and accountability regarding the costs and revenues of its different business lines. · It also requires the Department of Transportation to conduct a nationwide study on the availability and use of disadvantaged business enterprises (DBEs) in publicly funded intercity passenger rail projects. # # #
03.03.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx's announcement of a new initiative to permit local hiring for projects funded by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA): “For the longest time, cities and other entities have wrestled with the local hire provision if just one federal dollar for a project was used,” Napolitano said. “Today’s welcome news means cities with high unemployment will be allowed to compete for jobs for their residents. It also restores fairness to local taxpayers, ensuring they are given a hiring preference for the jobs their taxes are paying for. We thank Secretary Foxx for launching this pilot program, which increases critical jobs for our San Gabriel Valley residents, and we look forward to continuing to invest in infrastructure to grow our local economy.” Effective immediately, the year-long pilot is proposed as an experiment under FHWA’s “Special Experimental Project No. 14 (SEP-14) and FTA experimental authorities, provisions made possible by Congress to allow the agencies leeway in finding new and more effective means of building, maintaining and managing federal transportation projects. The Department published a related proposal in the Federal Register to modify the “common grant” rule geographic preference provision applied to USDOT programs. The public is encouraged to review it and submit comments to the Comment Docket (Link). The comment period will close 30 days from the date of publication in the Federal Register. Napolitano, the most senior California Democratic member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has been proactively requesting consideration of local hire on federally funded projects for years. Background: · Federal law prohibits cities and local transportation agencies from having a local hire preference on a transportation project when $1 dollar of federal money is spent. · This provision was put in place many years ago when transportation projects used to be 80% federally funded and 20% locally funded. · Today the funding formulas have reversed and most projects have very little federal funding and the vast majority is local funding. · Napolitano and many others believe that local workers should be given a hiring advantage when their tax dollars are paying for the majority of a project. # # #
03.03.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32) and Chris Gibson (R-NY-19) reintroduced the Mental Health in Schools Act (H.R. 1211) to fund on-site school-based mental health services for youth. “The Mental Health in Schools Act is a critically-needed investment in our most precious resource—our children,” said Congresswoman Napolitano. “Peers, school personnel, and families can help students, but they need to be trained how to identify needs. This proposal educates on the warning signs and symptoms of mental illness, so students can be referred directly to clinicians on site. Our 26-school suicide prevention program in California has proven its value by providing services to children right on school grounds—raising mental health awareness, reducing stigma, and saving lives. We are tremendously grateful to Congressman Gibson for cosponsoring this bill to promote mental wellness and reduce stigma, ensuring a brighter future for our youngsters.” “As a parent and former educator and the husband of a Licensed Clinical Social Worker, I am proud to join Congresswoman Napolitano in reintroducing the Mental Health in Schools Act,” said Congressman Gibson. “Ready access to quality mental health services should be available to all of our students. This legislation goes a long way to seeing that our young people are able to get the support they need to live life to their fullest potential.” The Mental Health in Schools Act, which Napolitano introduced in the previous four Congresses, would create a total of $200 million in grant funding for 200 schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. H.R. 1211 is patterned after a successful pilot program started in 2001 in Napolitano’s area, which began in four schools that has now expanded to 26 schools throughout California’s San Gabriel Valley. Background: · H.R. 1211 would offer early intervention/treatment for young people with mental health issues. · Early preventive mental health services save money by preventing crime, costly court trials, jail time, emergency room visits, job losses for those suffering, and reliance on state and federal services. · Among young people aged 10-14 years old, suicide rates have doubled in the last two decades (American Foundation for Suicide Prevention). · Children with mental health issues make $10,400 less per year as adults (Journal of Social Science and Medicine). · 4 in 10 currently unemployed parents say they have seen behavioral changes in their children due to their unemployment (NY Times/CBS Poll). · Behavioral and emotional problems decreased among 31% of youth with mental health issues after 6 months of receiving mental health care (SAMHSA report). · The number of students involved in violent incidents decreased by 15% within three years of establishing mental health programs (SAMHSA report). If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Mental Health in Schools Act website at: https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act # # #
02.19.2015	(West Covina, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited the West Covina Police Department, joining Mayor Fredrick Sykes and WCPD Lieutenant Pat Benschop for a demonstration by the local K-9 Unit. “Thank you to the entire WCPD for the invitation to see first-hand the talents and skills of the K-9 Unit today,” Napolitano said. “Public safety is critically important, and we must do all we can to ensure access to financial assistance for training programs whose goal is to keep us safe. We are so grateful to WCPD and all law enforcement officers and their families who knowingly put themselves in harm’s way to protect our communities.” Napolitano and her staff were privileged to meet two Police K-9 teams, including Reiko, who was shot in the line of duty on November 23rd of last year. Police agencies in the San Gabriel Valley currently have no dedicated K-9 training facilities, forcing officers to travel outside the county for their training and certification needs. WCPD seeks funding to establish a K-9 facility to better serve the region. As a member of the bipartisan Congressional Law Enforcement Caucus, Napolitano pledged to continue working at the local, state, and federal levels to support this and similar efforts. # # #
02.04.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, at a joint House and Senate hearing, “The Impacts Of The Proposed Waters of the United States Rule on State and Local Governments,” Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) called for protection of clean water while providing regulatory certainty to water agencies, residents, and businesses. “The proposed rule is an attempt to undo the confusion and uncertainty created by the former administration in a way that protects both the nation’s economy as well as its water-related environment,” Napolitano said. “This rulemaking is necessary because nearly 125 million Americans, over one-third of the total population, rely on public drinking water systems that draw from surface waters. In California alone, over 7 million rely on intermittent, ephemeral, and headwater streams for their daily drinking water supply.” She argued if private interests are successful in blocking this rule, it is the public who will suffer, adding, “In my state, it will mean less publicly available drinking water, less protection over those drinking water sources that remain, and an increased likelihood of flooding for our communities. We must do all we can to protect these water resources, because this is all we have. When the water dries up, our way of life and our local economies will dry up with it.” Today’s bicameral hearing between the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee was the first of its kind. Napolitano is the Ranking Member on the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. Her full opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. # # #
01.21.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was elected unanimously to serve as Ranking Member of the Transportation & Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment. “We look to continue working on a bipartisan basis to fix our nation’s crumbling water infrastructure and secure a reliable water system for the 21st Century,” Napolitano said. “Which is why it is critical we consider all options when addressing serious threats to the water supply of California and states across the country, such as climate change, increased demand, pollution, and ongoing drought cycles. We must also renew federal commitments to improve our infrastructure—protecting our rivers, lakes, and streams—while providing flood control solutions for our communities. I am grateful for this opportunity to work with Chairman Bob Gibbs to meet the water needs of all Americans.” With jurisdiction over the EPA Clean Water Act programs, Napolitano will use her new position to encourage EPA and sanitation agencies to find ways to recycle water for irrigation use and groundwater replenishment; and monitor the implementation of a new Clean Water Act Stormwater Permit, ensuring affordability for L.A. County cities and residents. Ranking Member Napolitano also has oversight of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and will continue her work with the Corps, local flood control districts, and water agencies to capture more water in flood control reservoirs, which is a major issue at Santa Fe Dam in her district and the bordering Whittier Narrows Dam; support both the Los Angeles River Revitalization Plan and improvements to the San Gabriel River with environmental restoration projects and recreational opportunities, such as bikeways, fishing, and swimming areas; and improve legislation to require the Corps to provide more equity to the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach in dredging operations. Napolitano is the most senior California Democratic member as well as the most senior Hispanic member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. For the 114th Congress, she retains the other two subcommittee assignments she has held for the past eight years: the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit and the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials. ###
01.20.2015	(Washington, D.C.) Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight President Obama reminded us we are on the right track, but there is still work to do. He made his strongest case yet to strengthen the middle class through job creation and a fairer tax policy, so hardworking families can remain in their homes and see their paychecks go farther. 2015 offers a fresh start and opportunity to concentrate on what is good for the country. By putting politics aside and investing in our future together to create good-paying jobs, America can once again lead in the world economy.” “Making Community college more affordable rewards aspiring young leaders, putting them on the path for success. We call on our local businesses to step up to this challenge by offering more on-the-job training, ensuring an educated workforce for Southern California.” “We applaud the President for taking bold steps to protect immigrants—who have contributed so much to our country—supported by the majority of Americans as well as evangelicals, law enforcement, and business communities. It is well past time for Congress to pass comprehensive immigration reform to strengthen our economy and provide millions of families the security they need and deserve.” “We must have a more open dialogue on the state of mental health in this country, especially the mental health of our veterans. Fighting stigma is something we all must do to encourage people to seek help and keep this conversation going. Ensuring early access to mental health services for children and their families is critical to the well-being of individuals, our communities, and our economy.” “Our job in Congress is first and foremost to represent the people. In the San Gabriel Valley, I remain focused on our region’s most anticipated challenges and those we may not see coming. From increasing outreach to veterans and their families to preparing for future drought cycles and rebuilding our infrastructure, we must continue to work with local elected officials and businesses to meet the needs of our communities.” After meeting with Napolitano earlier in the day, Monrovia Mayor Mary Ann Lutz attended the State of the Union Address as Napolitano’s guest. “The State of the Union Address is a barometer for our country, so it was quite an honor to hear the President lay out his vision in person,” said Mayor Lutz. “It gives me great hopes for the future of our nation.” # # #
01.13.2015	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), John Garamendi (CA-03), Lois Capps (CA-24), and Jared Huffman (CA-02) joined 22 of their Democratic colleagues to reintroduce H.R. 291,“W21: Water in the 21st Century,” to help communities nationwide better prepare for the future by providing new incentives and investments to help local water agencies, residents, and businesses to conserve, recycle and manage limited water supplies. U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) today also reintroduced the Senate companion to this bill. “2014 was California’s driest year on record, illustrating more than ever how preparing for future drought cycles is vital to our nation’s well-being,” Napolitano said. “Our comprehensive legislation addresses this urgent need through cost-effective solutions—increased water use efficiency, water conservation, desalination, and water recycling—which Southern California has successfully been doing for decades. Of the many critical challenges we face in the 114th Congress, developing a reliable water supply for the 21st Century must be among our top priorities. I am proud to coauthor this bill in the House and will continue to work with all of my colleagues to help create a sustainable water future for generations to come.”“I am proud to cosponsor the Water in the 21st Century Act, a bill that helps guide our nation toward a more sustainable water future. California’s historic drought has demonstrated the need for expanded science-driven water conservation, recycling, and storage initiatives found in this bill and in the overwhelmingly passed Proposition 1. Both provide solutions that work for all 58 counties in California. By investing in smart water policies, the Water in the 21st Century Act would help create millions of acre feet of new water, ensure a reliable water supply, and create good jobs,” Garamendi said.“While the rain this weekend was welcome news in California, this drought remains the worst on record and the most urgent problem our state faces,” Capps said. “There are no easy solutions. But the Water in the 21st Century Act would be a strong step forward by providing critical support for improved water efficiency, conservation, and water recycling projects in our local communities.”“The extreme California drought demands a robust, responsible response from Congress that does not pit one industry against another, or favor one region over others,” Huffman said. “The Water in the 21st Century Act makes smart, sustainable investments in water efficiency, recycling, and conservation and helps to ensure we all have a reliable water supply for the future.”The legislation would expand rebates and grants for water conservation and efficiency; support local investments in water recycling and improved groundwater management and storage; invest in research into water-saving technologies and desalination; and establish an open water data system. The measure would also help local communities take steps to become better prepared for drought.In addition to Reps. Napolitano, Garamendi, Capps, and Huffman, original cosponsors include Reps. Judy Chu (CA-27), John Conyers (MI-13), Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Janice Hahn (CA-44), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), Ruben Hinojosa (TX-15), Mike Honda (CA-17), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Scott Peters (CA-52), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Raul Ruiz (CA-36), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Norma Torres (CA-35), and Juan Vargas (CA-51).H.R. 291 is supported by the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Western Recycled Water Coalition, WaterNow, the Clean Water Construction Coalition, the Northern California Water Association, the North Bay Water Reuse Authority and the WateReuse Association. For a full summary of the legislation, click here.
12.11.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 83, the Consolidated and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2015: “In the final hours of the 113th Congress, the House Republican leadership has again taken us close to shutting down our government. Rather than working in a bipartisan manner on a clean resolution to fund critical federal services, H.R. 83 contains unacceptable provisions—reduces Pell Grant Program funding for low-income college students; cuts funding to operate agencies they do not like: the IRS and the EPA; and slashes housing voucher funds for low-income families—yet it weakens consumer protections while empowering Wall Street bankers and raises the limits for campaign contributions. This unacceptable budget does not reflect our American values, nor does it reflect the priorities of our San Gabriel Valley residents. We strongly urge our Republican colleagues to produce a fair budget and provide certainty to hardworking Americans.” # # #
12.09.2014	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 5781, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act:"Instead of working alongside Democrats, state and local water agencies, or California Tribes, today our Republican colleagues jammed through drought relief legislation that favors Central Valley farmers and sets a dangerous precedent of Congress imposing mandates on the water supplies of states. This misguided bill was brought to the floor for a vote in the waning days of the 113th Congress without any markup or hearing, bypassing any public input. As we continue to prepare for future drought cycles, we must ensure an open process with all sides at the table. House Democrats stand ready to work with Republicans to develop water solutions that benefit the whole state of California, not just a segment."H.R. 5781, authored by Rep. David Valadao (R-CA), would override California’s state water rights, undo water settlements, and give powerful agricultural interests in the Central Valley a greater share of California’s water. Napolitano voted against the bill, which ultimately passed by a vote of 230-182.Napolitano is the lead sponsor of H.R. 5363, W21: Water in the 21st Century Act, which would help communities nationwide better prepare for the future by providing new incentives and investments to help residents, businesses and local water agencies to conserve, recycle and manage limited water supplies. She is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. ###
11.19.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the awarding of $121 million contract to Northrop Grumman of Azusa by NASA for the construction and implementation of a new weather forecasting instrument: “We congratulate Northrop Grumman for achieving this significant contract. These critical federal funds will help our nation better prepare for future drought cycles, saving us money and resources in the long run. We are thrilled this instrument will be manufactured at Northrop Grumman’s plant in Azusa, keeping good paying jobs in our San Gabriel Valley.” Northrop Grumman will be responsible for building and delivering the third Advanced Technology Microwave Sounder (ATMS) for NOAA’s Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS). ATMS provides critical data that allow forecasters to improve predictions of storm tracks, precipitation, and weather patterns. For more information, visit https://www.northropgrumman.com/MediaResources/MediaKits/NSS/Documents/ATMS.pdf. # # #
11.14.2014	DSC_0595.JPG (Washington, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) welcomed to Capitol Hill a delegation from the World Boxing Council to raise critical awareness for mental health and eliminate stigma. “We are honored to have so many boxing legends speak out on behalf of mental health, letting those suffering know it is always okay to seek help,” Napolitano said. “Boxers know very well the importance of both a person’s physical and mental health and how we cannot separate the brain from the rest of the body. We commend all of these champions and contenders for their dedication to our youngsters, and we proudly join them in the fight to knock out stigma.” The group of boxing legends was in town for the WBC’s annual charity event, Fight for Children, which raises funds for educational and healthcare related programs for low-income children in our nation’s capital. Members of the WBC delegation included, WBC President Mauricio Sulaiman, Julio Cesar Chavez, Roberto Duran, Ray “Boom Boom” Mancini, Mia St John, Erik Morales, Gerry Cooney, and Jill Diamond. Joining Napolitano to greet the WBC delegation were several of her congressional colleagues, including House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), Reps. Peter King (NY-02), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Gregory Meeks (NY-05), Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Tony Cardenas (CA-29), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Pedro Pierluisi (PR), Hank Johnson (GA-04), and Corrine Brown (FL-05). The WBC is continuing to raise mental health awareness as they did in 2014 through dedicating championship fights in May to National Mental Health Awareness Month, highlighting the color lime green for mental health, and advocating for related issues before Congress. Mia St John (four-time female world champion) and Jill Diamond (Multiple Emmy Winner and World Boxing Cares Chair) are members of Napolitano’s Mental Health Task Force, which seeks to increase access and awareness of mental health services, helping to rid the stigma against mental health. For more information, contact Napolitano’s Mental Health Legislative Assistant, Jonah Cunningham, at 202-225-5256 or jonah.cunningham@mail.house.gov. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
11.03.2014	(West Covina, CA) On Saturday, November 1, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a successful military academy information session at West Covina Senior Citizen Center to give students, parents, and educators a chance to learn more about educational opportunities in our nation’s military academies. “We thank the City of West Covina, our special guests, and volunteers for making this year’s Military Academy Day possible,” Napolitano said. “Thank you to the students and families for coming here to gain a better understanding of the admission process and connect with liaisons from our distinguished service academies. It is never too early to start preparing youngsters for their futures, and we wish them all the very best.” Approximately 50 students spoke with representatives from West Point and the Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Merchant Marine service academies as well as the National Guard. Brigadier General Mark Toy, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers—South Pacific Division, spoke enthusiastically about the opportunity before students on Saturday. “What I love about coming here is I was in these students’ shoes back in 1982,” said General Toy. “The journey they’re going to start is going to be an incredible experience for them. After so many years I am still in the Army, and it is because of this love of serving the nation and developing leaders. You see a lot of these students here today; when they get into one of these academies you will see next year they will be totally different people. Each and every year they will grow, and once they graduate, they will become leaders.” “Job skills, leadership skills, and setting you up for success are some of the reasons why I am considering applying to one of the service academies,” said Jonathan Aguilar, Sunburst Youth Challenge Academy cadet. Our nation’s military service academies are consistently ranked by U.S. News and World Report as some of the most selective and competitive colleges in the world. Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. Interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in El Monte by Monday, November 17, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit https://napolitano.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations) • One or two letters of recommendation • A personal statement indicating why you should be considered • High school and/or college transcripts • Copy of SAT or ACT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (626) 350-0150. # # #
10.27.2014	(Baldwin Park, CA) On Saturday, October 25, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) held a free immigration clinic at St. John the Baptist Church in Baldwin Park to help guide people through the immigration and naturalization process. 110 people met with immigration experts and representatives from federal agencies. “Thank you to the City of Baldwin Park and all of the volunteers who made this clinic possible,” Napolitano said. “From our earliest roots, the vast contributions of immigrants have helped make America what it is today. We look forward to welcoming new ideas and people who will continue to strengthen our nation.” The following service organizations provided help and guidance at the clinic: · US Citizenship and Immigration Services · 605 Citizenship Project · CHIRLA · Asian Americans Advancing Justice - LA · Mexican American Bar Association · LA Voice · Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles · American Immigration Lawyers Association If you were unable to attend Saturday’s clinic and you or someone you know needs help with immigration services, please call Perla Hernandez at (626) 350-0150 or email perla.hernandez@mail.house.gov. ###
10.23.2014	(La Verne, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) held a free export trade seminar with the University of La Verne and the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership at the University of La Verne Abraham Campus Center. More than 50 local business people attended for free expert guidance on how to increase international sales and expand their businesses into global markets. “Welcome to the panelists and speakers, and thank you for your willingness to push forward an agenda to strengthen our region’s economy through exports,” Napolitano said. “There are many foreign countries that want high-quality, American-made products, but do not know they are available to them. Take advantage of the resources available to you today and network with your fellow business partners. We thank the University of La Verne for hosting today’s event, and a special thanks to the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership for your continued interest in creating more jobs at home while helping businesses go global.” “You need to establish, first and foremost, whether you have the budget to do it because you will need to invest money to develop an export program,” said Greg Moore, Regional Director of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, offering insights to aspiring exporters. “Start with one market and focus on the one that makes sense for your product line. Exporting can be a lot of fun, but you have to focus on how you are going to get paid. If you do these steps correctly, it shouldn’t be any more risky than the domestic business you are already doing in the U.S.” “If you are a small business, start by going to https://www.export.gov/— it is the federal resource for any company to get information to position their product or service in the global market,” said Richard M. Swanson, Jr., Network Director of the U.S. & Foreign Commercial Service International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce. “This will create a customized package for your company to identify your top three overseas markets. There are a lot of foreign buyers who come to domestic trade shows in the U.S., so those are also wonderful opportunities to meet face to face, while getting your product out there.” John Price, VP Finance at Astrophysics, Inc. (City of Industry) said he would like to closer communication and a stronger network between local businesses and those in the exports industry. “We need to spend more time networking with these people,” said Price. “The connectivity that you can get through government entities and some of the private facilities and logistics people can extremely helpful. We have not spent enough time developing this network, but I hope we do going forward.” The panel discussions led by ten experts from the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Small Business Administration, the Center for International Trade Development, the Export-Import Bank of the United States and other organizations, focused on trade financing and resources as well as export logistics. Seminar attendees learned about available government resources and private capital, how to research different markets, and how to secure financing. Resources for Further Information: · Small Business Administration (SBA): 1-800-U-ASK-SBA - www.sba.gov/recovery · International Trade Administration – www.export.gov · SBA Los Angeles Office: (818) 552-3215 www.sba.gov/localresources/district/ca/la · California Job Service: (562) 402-9336 - www.caljobs.ca.gov · Small Business Opportunities with Dept. of Energy - management.energy.gov/business_DOE.htm · Small Business Opportunities with Dept. of Labor - www.dol.gov/oasam/programs/osdbu ###
10.16.2014	(Irwindale, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) spoke at the Irwindale Chamber of Commerce’s legislative forum at the Edison Energy Education Center, regarding the economy, water and California’s drought, transportation projects, small business, and immigration reform. “The Santa Fe Dam here in Irwindale is one of our region’s best resources for helping to improve our water supply. We are working hard to prepare for future drought cycles, but it is everyone’s responsibility to conserve water,” Napolitano told the audience. “We are proud that the University of La Verne has recently opened a Small Business Development Center to service the San Gabriel Valley, and we encourage the attendance of all local businesses at our export seminar next Thursday. My dedicated staff and I remain committed to working across all sectors to find solutions. Thank you for inviting me here today to address your concerns and discuss the critical issues affecting the San Gabriel Valley. It is an honor to represent this area and to make your voices heard in Washington.” In addition to responding to questions raised by the Chamber of Commerce, Napolitano provided details on current legislation and her work in Congress. She recently partnered with Rep. Ed Royce (CA-39) to garner $10 million from the Department of Transportation for the 57/60 Highway Improvement Project. Napolitano vowed to continue to work with her colleagues on the Transportation Committee to pass a long-term transportation bill to give local agencies certainty in funding. She encouraged all attendees to provide feedback to her El Monte District Office and submit legislative priorities for the city and region. Earlier today Napolitano traveled to Azusa to meet with students of the Gladstone High School Medical Pathway program, which prepares students for careers in the health care industry or medical professions. She later toured the Azusa Fire Department, Station #32, thanking Department Chief Anderson Mackey and other local firefighters for their dedication to the safety of Azusa residents. Napolitano will host a free export seminar on Thursday, October 23, 2014 at the University of La Verne. If you are a small business and interested in learning more about exporting opportunities and business development, register at congresswomannapolitano.eventbrite.com. Call 626-350-0150 if you have any questions. ###
10.01.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) made the following statement on the untimely death of Covina motorcycle police officer, Jordan Corder, who died yesterday following a traffic collision: “With deep sadness we mourn the loss of a brave young man whose dedication to service to his city and community will not be forgotten. Officer Corder followed in the footsteps of his father, a retired Covina police sergeant, and died tragically yesterday in the pursuit of justice.” “Obeying traffic laws is critical and an inherent part of operating any motor vehicle. Accidents such as this could be prevented if we would all exercise better care when traveling on the road. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Officer Corder’s family, the Covina Police Department, and all of the families, friends, and loved ones touched by this tragedy.” The tragic crash occurred yesterday at the intersection of West Puente Street and North Citrus Avenue in Covina when Officer Corder’s motorcycle collided with a Honda CR-V that was turning left, while chasing after another motorcyclist through a red light. Officer Corder was thrown from his motorcycle then transported with the other motorist, a 75-year-old woman driving the CR-V, to a local hospital. Officer Corder was pronounced dead at 2:41 p.m. The other motorist involved remains in the hospital, and her condition is unknown. # # #
09.26.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-El Monte) and Judy Chu (D-Monterey Park) sent a letter to Secretary of the Department of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack, renewing efforts to protect the San Gabriel Mountains by designating the area as a national monument. Local area members, Adam Schiff (D-Burbank), Tony Cárdenas (D-San Fernando Valley), and Linda Sanchez (D-Cerritos), also joined the Congresswomen in support, stating: “We are informed that meetings have taken place with homeowners associations, off-highway vehicle groups, several meetings with representatives from the water community and Southern California Edison, and meetings with elected officials from the local cities and counties. We appreciate these efforts and encourage the U.S. Forest Service to continue its outreach throughout the region.” They continued, “We also urge the U.S. Forest Service to carefully consider the concerns of the wide range of stakeholders that we represent to protect and preserve rights, land uses, fire management capabilities, existing recreational opportunities, and other critical priorities for all stakeholders.” Key Facts about National Monument designation: · The Angeles and San Bernardino National Forests are owned and operated by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS), a federal agency of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). · A national monument designation can only include federal land. It cannot include state, city, or private property. The Foothill cities will not and cannot be included in the designation. · The designation allows the USFS to prioritize funding, creates eligibility to apply for grants, and establishes public-private partnerships. The Angeles and San Bernardino National Forests are currently set as budget items that must compete for funds. · It will allow local residents, businesses, and cities to work directly with local officials to co-manage the land. Currently, local communities have no direct input in the Management Plan of the Angeles and San Bernardino National Forests. · This process is run and being led by President Obama with USFS. The need for a national monument designation is an extension of ongoing conversations over the past decade on how to protect, preserve, and enhance the San Gabriel Mountains. The many public meetings, town halls—including the USFS town hall on August 26, 2014—and stakeholder roundtables over the last ten years have laid the foundation for today’s effort to achieve a national monument. Efforts to protect the San Gabriel Mountains have always and will continue to be transparent. As discussions regarding a national monument designation continue, public input is critical. To share your views on the proposed monument designation, visit https://www.fs.usda.gov/detailfull/angeles/landmanagement/?cid=stelprd3815883&width=full. Full text of the letter to Secretary Vilsack can be viewed here. # # #
09.09.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA-32), Ed Royce (R-CA-39), and Judy Chu (D-CA-27) are pleased to announce the awarding of a $10 million Transportation Infrastructure Generating Economic Recovery Program (TIGER) grant for the 57/60 Confluence Project – Freight Corridor Bottleneck Relief. “We are thrilled to welcome these new federal funds which will create local jobs, increase safety, and reduce traffic congestion in our region,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Ensuring the safe transport of goods and people along one of our nation’s busiest corridors is critical, and we thank Secretary Foxx, the County of Los Angeles, and our San Gabriel Valley cities for partnering to continue to fund this effort.” “From my office in Rowland Heights I can see firsthand the traffic that backs up every day keeping commuters from getting home to their families and bringing trucks delivering trade goods to a halt,” said Rep. Royce. “Prioritizing the 57/60 confluence for transportation dollars is a win-win for public safety and economic growth. I was proud to work with California lawmakers from both parties to alleviate the gridlock on our freeways, and look forward to following this project’s progress closely.” “This grant is great news for San Gabriel Valley residents who rely on the incredibly congested 57/60 corridor,” said Rep. Chu. “Improvements made possible by this grant will alleviate the traffic problems that, in addition to needlessly delaying commuters, create dangerous conditions and contribute to our air pollution. I am glad we will be able to improve our transportation infrastructure to meet the needs of one of the busiest and most used routes in the country.” Napolitano, Royce, and Chu sent a joint letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx following his visit to the region in March, supporting the $10 million TIGER grant funding request submitted by the Cities of Industry and Diamond Bar. The awarded funding will be used for the construction of westbound direction elements of the Project, including the addition of auxiliary lanes before and after the Grand Avenue interchange. These improvements provide independent utility from the eastbound improvements and will increase peak hour speeds and improve safety by reducing weaving movements in the westbound direction. The 57/60 Confluence Project will relieve congestion and improve safety along a regionally and nationally significant goods movement corridor; 340,000 vehicles converge at this interchange every day, weaving through traffic to continue onto their destination. The Project also strongly supports the TIGER Program's goal of investing in transportation projects that better connect communities to centers of employment, education, and services, while stimulating long-term job growth. The TIGER grant will be matched by $4.5 million of local Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority funds, $10.6 million of City of Industry funds, and $9.4 million of Federal Regional Surface Transportation Program funding, for a total of $34.5 million. An additional $2.7 million investment by the City of Industry to finance the engineering design, the total project cost is $37.2 million, and it will generate approximately 5,100 jobs. # # #
09.04.2014	IMG951044.jpg (Glendora, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited Citrus College in Glendora to see first-hand how its Veterans Success Center is improving educational and professional services to San Gabriel Valley student veterans. “Citrus College continues to lead the way in addressing the needs of our region’s student veterans,” Napolitano said. “The Veterans Success Center provides critical transitional services to male and female student veterans, allowing faculty and peers to offer their direct support to them in a comfortable setting. We thank all Citrus College staff and students for their commitment to helping student veterans achieve their personal and academic goals.” Napolitano received a tour of the new home for the Veterans Center from Interim Executive Dean, Dr. Martha McDonald. She also heard about the challenges and goals of student veterans and offered assistance with any of their veteran-related needs. Napolitano later presented a certificate to Dr. Martha McDonald for her participation in the 3rd Annual Veterans Forum held in July. “The student veterans and staff of the Citrus College Veterans Success Center were tremendously honored by Congresswoman Napolitano’s visit today,” said Dr. McDonald. “The Congresswoman’s visit was very important to the veterans and college as a whole, as it signifies her support of the relevant and important services Citrus College provides to our student veteran population.” “The Congresswoman’s continued support has been instrumental in improving the conditions throughout our campus,” said student, Steven Bluitt Flowers (U.S. Air Force). “I appreciate the time and her service, and personal commitment she makes.” The Citrus College Veterans Program provides support services to military veterans who have returned to civilian life and aspire to earn an associate degree, transfer to a four-year college or university, or prepare for a career. The mission of the Citrus College Veterans Center is to assist veterans in achieving their educational and professional goals by helping them remove the barriers they face in transitioning and to empower them to compete globally. Citrus College has over 100 veterans on campus, most having recently returned from Iraq (Operation Iraqi Freedom) or Afghanistan (Operation Enduring Freedom). For assistance with veteran-related issues, call Napolitano’s Military/Veterans Liaison, Hector Elizalde, at 626-350-0150. # # #
08.01.2014	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the House Republican proposals to address the unaccompanied minors situation and eliminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “One day after failing to address the humanitarian crisis on our southwest border, our Republican colleagues voted today to remove critical protections for refugees of violence and eliminate the successful DACA program. Thousands of unaccompanied children who have fled violence and threats in their home countries are being met at our southwest border by armed militias. “The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops states: It is a sad day for our country. A chamber of Congress is poised to send vulnerable children back to danger and possible death. It violates our commitment to human rights and due process of the law and lessens us as a nation. I pray that this legislation never sees the light of day. “We agree. We must address the root causes of migration, not punish these vulnerable and innocent children. Our federal agencies are running out of funding to deal with this unfortunate situation, so we need action now to provide the necessary resources, ensuring protections and due process of our law. “Despite their claims to support our young DREAMers, today’s action on DACA proves Republicans have been working to eliminate it. DACA has been a tremendous success, expanding access to education, employment, and security to hundreds of thousands of young people educated in the U.S who have known no other country. We stand with these courageous DREAMers who deserve our support. My colleagues and I will continue to fight for total immigration reform.” ###
07.31.2014	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA), U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), U.S. Representative Grace Napolitano (D-CA) and U.S. Representative Peter DeFazio (D-OR) today introduced “W21: Water in the 21st Century,” legislation that would help communities nationwide better prepare for the future by providing new incentives and investments to help residents, businesses and local water agencies to conserve, recycle and manage limited water supplies. The legislation would expand rebates and grants for water conservation and efficiency; support local investments in water recycling and improved groundwater management and storage; invest in research into water-saving technologies and desalination; and establish an open water data system. The measure would also help local communities take steps to become better prepared for drought. “Anyone who knows California knows that we have forever fought about water and it’s time to change the story,” Senator Boxer said. “We’re doing just that with ‘W21: Water in the 21st Century,’ which will help us prepare for the future by conserving, recycling and better managing our precious water supplies.” “I am pleased to cosponsor the Water in the 21st Century act. It includes practical, effective programs for conservation, recycling, research and water projects that are important elements to help meet California’s water challenges,” Senator Feinstein said. “This bill complements the Emergency Drought Relief Act – which we are currently negotiating with the House – to help California and the West confront this and future droughts.” “The Water in the 21st Century Act will help our entire state address ongoing drought cycles by providing funds and support to our local water agencies and residents for water use efficiency, water conservation, desalination, and water recycling projects,” Representative Napolitano said. “I am proud to sponsor this bill in the House and ask my colleagues to join us to develop a reliable water supply for the 21st Century.” “Water in the 21st Century will give our communities essential tools to help residents, businesses, and local officials deal with limited water supplies both now and in the future,” Representative DeFazio said. “I am happy to join Senator Boxer and Representative Napolitano on this common sense approach on critical water shortage issues and will urge the Natural Resources Committee to take up this legislation when Congress returns.” The legislation includes a number of important provisions that would help communities in California, Oregon and across the country: Efficiency and Conservation Strengthens EPA’s WaterSense program, which promotes water conservation in products, buildings, and landscapes through information and rebates. The bill authorizes $50 million to administer the program and $700 million for rebates, through FY2019, and then funds them at FY2019 levels adjusted for inflation thereafter. Creates a new grant program within the Environmental Protection Agency for local water systems to conserve water, increase water efficiency or reuse water; modify or relocate existing water system infrastructure made or projected to be made inoperable by climate change impacts; preserve or improve water quality, and other projects. Water Recycling, Storage, and Integrated Water Management Leverages federal financing – through loan guarantees and matching grants – to help support projects on a regional scale, including water recycling, ground water management, water storage and water conveyance infrastructure. $250 million over five years for secured loans. $150 million for integrated regional water management, reclamation, and recycling projects grants. Innovation through Research, Data, and Technology · Establishes an open water data system at the Department of the Interior. Reauthorizes the Water Resources Research Act at $9 million a year through 2020. Reauthorizes the Water Desalination Act at $3 million a year through 2020. Directs the Secretary of the Army to review reservoir operations and assess whether there is a benefit in adjusting operations to take into account improved forecasting data. Drought Preparedness Establishes Drought Resilience Guidelines for state and local agencies through EPA in coordination with USDA, Commerce and Interior. Directs U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in consultation with state and federal agencies, to prepare a salmon drought plan to address the impacts of drought on the salmon population. The legislation is supported by the Western Recycled Water Coalition, WaterNow, the Clean Water Construction Coalition, the Northern California Water Association, the North Bay Water Reuse Authority and the WateReuse Association. For the text of the legislation, click here. Senator Feinstein and Senator Boxer have also introduced the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, an emergency measure that would provide immediate relief to communities that are suffering from the historic drought impacting California and other Western states. ###
07.29.2014	(Washington, D.C.) On Saturday, July 26, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined forces with the California Army National Guard, the City of Azusa, and many veterans organizations to bring the VA on-site to help veterans with their casework. “Our veterans have earned the right to receive VA benefits, and bringing all sides together helps to resolve the issue of denials and other problems facing our veterans.” Napolitano said. “We are doing our best to ensure claims are reviewed in a timely manner, and we are thankful the VA has come for the third time with their caseworkers to interview veterans in a comfortable setting.” Robert McKenrick, Director, VA Los Angeles Regional Office; Shelia Jackson, Assistant Director, VA Los Angeles Regional Office; Michael Fisher, Director, Long Beach VA Hospital, addressed the veterans on their proposals to deliver services at their facilities. Other speakers included representatives from the numerous veterans organizations cosponsoring the event, including: the VFW, American Legion, American GI Forum, and the Vet Hunters Project. Over 150 of the region’s veterans were registered; some received physical and psychiatric exams, meeting one-on-one with VA representatives. Veterans also participated in workshops led by experts on important topics regarding mental health, women warriors, education and financial planning, and homeless veterans. Assisting were Azusa Mayor Joseph Rocha, city council members, and volunteers from churches, the Sunburst Youth Academy, Boy Scout Troop 888, and the community. For assistance with VA claims, call Napolitano’s Military/Veterans Liaison, Hector Elizalde, at 626-350-0150. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. # # #
07.11.2014	DSC_0296.JPG (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement after joining her Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) colleagues at a press conference on the unaccompanied minors situation: “Republicans and Democrats in Congress have voted three times since 2002 to include protection for refugees of violence. America is still in financial crisis, yet we have always been the beacon of hope for the oppressed around the world. Children must be protected not only by us but by their own governments, and we must go after the criminals who are threatening, killing, maiming, and trafficking them. It is critical that we follow the rule of law and our own immigration laws with compassion for these children who have been forced to flee their home countries.” Over the past several weeks, the CHC has met with President Obama and members of his administration, as well as representatives from the embassies of El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, and Mexico. Today’s press conference was in response to the President’s emergency $3.7 billion supplemental appropriation request to address the increase in child and adult migration from Central America in the Rio Grande Valley areas of the southwest border. # # #
06.20.2014	(Washington, DC) Last evening, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined Congressional colleagues and global business leaders at the Netherlands Embassy to promote the exportation of American products. “The reception we received last night proves that we need to do more outreach to find global markets for our American products,” Napolitano said. “Our upcoming export seminar will offer San Gabriel Valley businesses this opportunity, and we encourage the attendance of all local businesses interested in learning how selling their products abroad can help create more jobs at home.” Last night’s event featured an awards dinner for Amazon.com Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Dr. Werner Vogels, PhD, a native of the Netherlands who now helps lead one of the world’s largest online marketplaces. Dr. Vogels received the 2014 Holland on the Hill Heineken Award for his innovative knowledge and business acumen. Napolitano was joined by her colleagues, Reps. Doris Matsui (CA-06), Charlie Dent (PA-15), Jim McDermott (WA-07), John Garamendi (CA-03), and Paul Tonko (NY-20), who were also eager to connect with businesses from their districts present at the dinner. Luke Olsen of Astrophysics, Inc., located in the City of Industry, attended the dinner to network with representatives of new potential partners. Astrophysics is the only American x-ray security company that manufactures its products solely in the United States, employs over 100 local workers, and is responding to the needs of the area. Napolitano will host a free export seminar on Thursday, October 23, 2014 at the University of La Verne. If you are a small business and interested in learning more about exporting opportunities and business development, register at congresswomannapolitano.eventbrite.com. Call 626-350-0150 if you have any questions. # # #
06.17.2014	(Duarte, CA) On Friday, June 13, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) hosted a roundtable meeting at City of Hope in Duarte with her 32nd Congressional District Mental Health Consortium, a dedicated group of 40 local mental health professionals and advocates who advise Napolitano on mental health issues and policy. “The Consortium works together to meet and network with mental health officials to address the needs of San Gabriel Valley residents from all walks of life,” Napolitano said. “The state of veterans’ mental health is one of the Consortium’s top concerns, as our heroes are returning with Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). We must prioritize services as a community: reach out to our veterans and their families, let them know of our support, and remind them it is always okay to seek help.” “We appreciate the continued dedication of all members of the Consortium—and welcome new attendees—who volunteer their time and energy to work toward de-stigmatizing mental illness and promote mental wellness in our cities, our families, and our country,” Napolitano continued. “The Mental Health Consortium is a wonderful service to the community which gives people a real understanding of the resources that are available to them,” said Alfredo Larios, District Chief for the Los Angeles County Department of Mental Health. “Mental health is such a key component of everyday life and this consortium really is a valuable service for our county.” “The consortium is much needed network and resource in our community,” said Joe Leal, founder of the Vet Hunters Project. “As long as we have homeless veterans we will continue to create mental health resources, collaborations, and education on what we can do to serve veterans at the highest level so that we can continue to serve those who served us.” Friday’s meeting focused on veterans, women and children, and Napolitano’s school-based suicide prevention program. After a presentation by Mr. Larios, attendees divided into five subcommittees for break-out sessions to discuss the day’s topics and network with fellow Consortium members. Later, the subcommittees presented their collective findings, including resources on veterans’ mental health. Napolitano has been active in securing mental health parity in the Affordable Care Act, promoting mental health legislation, and working with prominent figures to increase funding and access to mental health services in Congress. Her 2001 program providing mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in four schools has expanded to 26 schools with assistance from Los Angeles County Mental Health, which now serves as a model program for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. # # #
06.05.2014	(West Covina, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited the “Almost Home” house in West Covina to see how the facility is providing safe transitional housing for women veterans. “Don’t forget, women serve, too!” Napolitano said. “These dedicated folks have taken their motto seriously in opening the “Almost Home” house for women veterans and their children. In many households women are the primary caregivers, so we especially thank those who are reaching out and supporting them. Our San Gabriel Valley is privileged to have multiple veterans housing facilities, but it is unacceptable for there to be even one homeless vet. We must all do better as a community to ensure our heroes and their families receive the essential benefits they deserve.” The “Almost Home” house was recently leased by the Student Soldiers Justice and Memorial Foundation, also known as the Hook Up Resource Center, with an initial goal of hosting six female veterans and their children. The Hook Up Center, located in Montebello, offers classes on Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS) to teach veterans and their families to recognize the warning signs and symptoms so they can seek help. It is also a place where veterans go to study, relax, and interact with fellow veterans. The center is equipped with computers and offers tutoring, employment search assistance, and resume-building workshops. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. # # #
06.04.2014	(West Covina, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited the East San Gabriel Valley Regional Occupational Program and Technical Center (ROP/TC) in West Covina to learn about how it serves the educational and employment needs of the region’s veterans. “The ROP/TC is a wonderful resource for San Gabriel Valley residents looking to continue their educational pursuits,” Napolitano said. “Their emphasis on programs and training for our veterans help our heroes make the transition to civilian life and employment smoother. Many local businesses have pledged to hire veterans, so it is critically important that our veterans receive the proper skills and training to fill employment vacancies. We applaud and thank the ROP/TC’s staff for their commitment to serve those who honorably served our nation.” At the East San Gabriel Valley ROP/TC the VA Certifying Official individually assists veterans with the various training programs and funding options available to them. All courses offered are based on labor market information and upon completion of training, veterans are introduced to local employers who consider veterans first when making hiring decisions. The East San Gabriel Valley ROP/TC is one of 72 in the state of California. It is designed to provide high school and adult students with the technical skills required for particular jobs. # # #
05.28.2014	(Washington, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined 59 of her House colleagues in signing a letter to VA Secretary Eric Shinseki to express concerns about the effectiveness of an audit of VA medical facilities. “Our veterans have served our nation honorably, and they deserve nothing less than the same dedication from us,” Napolitano said. “We thank Secretary Shinseki for initiating a nationwide access review and audit, but to fully understand the causes of the long patient wait times and to hold accountable those who are not following procedure, this must be thorough and comprehensive. Our office has worked closely with both the Westwood and Long Beach VA hospitals in recent years, and they have been responsive to our efforts. We will continue to seek clarity on this critical issue and stand ready to work with the VA in solving this matter to ensure our veterans receive first-rate health services in a timely and effective manner.” The letter, authored by Rep. Ann Kirkpatrick (AZ-01), echoes the cosigners’ desire to complete the audit with urgency, but expresses doubt that a thorough and comprehensive audit can be completed in just a few weeks. It proposes that the audit specifically review appointment scheduling and consult scheduling practices at all VA medical facilities and examine the accuracy each VA medical facility is using to report patient wait times to the VA Central Office. The letter also urges the VA to immediately address inaccurate reporting practices and hold accountable those employees who did not follow VA Central Office policies and procedures. # # #
05.23.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on last night’s passage of S. 2198, the Emergency Drought Relief Act: “We commend Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their leadership and efforts in passing this important legislation out of the Senate. This bill will provide much needed support and water to our state without waiving existing environmental laws. The House must now act quickly to pass a clean version of S. 2198 as intended, without adding controversial provisions that could prevent it from being enacted into law.” “We look forward to continuing to work with the Senators on finding a long-term solution for the water challenges we face throughout all of California. That long-term solution must stress the importance of water conservation, education, and recycling as part of developing a sustainable water supply.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Water and Power Subcommittee and a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. ###
05.22.2014	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) applauded the adoption of a National Guard Youth ChalleNGe amendment to H.R. 4435, the Defense Appropriations Act of 2015. Napolitano was a cosponsor of the bipartisan amendment offered by Rep. David McKinley (R-WV), which gives an additional $55 million for Fiscal Year 2015 to Civil Military Programs, such as the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program. “I am proud to join my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to help our children who have dropped through the cracks,” Napolitano said. “We must do better as a nation in addressing the unacceptable rates of dropouts among adolescents, and according to the RAND Corporation, the ChalleNGe program has proven to be one of the best in helping our forgotten youngsters get back on the path to success. We have seen firsthand at our two California programs (Sunburst Academy in Los Alamitos and Grizzly Academy in San Luis Obispo) the transformation, also acknowledged by proud parents, that takes place when our ChalleNGe graduates emerge with life skills and tools for success. We hope through increased funding to build upon this success in California and protect this critical investment in so many youngsters’ lives.” ChalleNGe is a program run by the National Guard that uses military discipline and mentoring to help at-risk youth complete high school and emerge better able to succeed in the wider world. Napolitano is the Co-chair and founder of the Congressional National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Caucus. ###
05.21.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), joined U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Anthony Foxx, Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Chief Counsel Dorval Carter, California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Los Angeles County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky, Reps. Henry Waxman (CA-33), Xavier Becerra (CA-34), and Janice Hahn (CA-44), Los Angeles Metro Chair Diane DuBois and CEO Art Leahy, in signing the Full Funding Grant Agreement for the Westside Subway (Purple Line) Project in Los Angeles. “The awarding of new federal transportation grant funding for extending the Purple Line marks a critical investment in the future of Southern California’s transportation infrastructure that benefits all of Los Angeles county,” Napolitano said. “The expansion of the west side’s light rail will decrease travel times, help reduce pollution, create jobs, and strengthen our local economies. The next focus should be for MTA to continue to support the Gold Line Foothill extension through the San Gabriel Valley to Claremont and Ontario Airport, which has already improved public transportation through Azusa. We hope to see more proposals and funding of these projects on the east side of the county. Cooperation from federal funds continues to be an essential ingredient for increased safety and efficiency in our region.” The agreement announced today designates $2.1 billion in federal grants and loans toward the $2.8 billion project to help build the 3.9-mile Westside Purple Line Extension from downtown Los Angeles to the City of Beverly Hills. The Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA) will receive $1.25 billion in construction grant funds from the FTA’s Capital Investment Grant (CIG) Program and up to $856 million from the DOT’s Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan program with the remainder funded by state and local sources. LACMTA estimates that project construction will create more than 22,000 jobs. Napolitano is the senior California Democrat on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. # # #
05.20.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the passage of the Final Conference Report of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA): “WRRDA is a product of great bipartisan cooperation, and our entire nation will benefit from this important water infrastructure bill. It is a job producer that will be a great asset to agencies in delivering much needed assistance to languishing water projects. Many states whose projects have long been ignored and underfunded will now receive Army Corps assistance.” “Our region benefits greatly by assistance to the Santa Fe Dam, as well as the nearby Whittier Narrows Dam, the two largest Army Corps reservoirs in Los Angeles County. WRRDA will significantly improve water supply and levee vegetation management in arid regions such as California, increase the ability for local water agencies to accept funding, and protect our water resources from invasive species threats, such as quagga mussels, shore crab, and certain algae. The bill includes better distribution of funds for ports and ensures a greater percentage of money spent by our ports will remain in California, which will be very beneficial to the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach and allow more goods to come into our region. Thank you Chairwoman Boxer, Chairman Shuster, the rest of my colleagues, and all of our staff for the great bipartisan work in taking this critical step toward fixing our nation’s water infrastructure.” The Final Conference Report was passed by the House of Representatives today with large bipartisan support by a vote of 412-4 and is expected to be passed by the Senate soon. Napolitano was appointed in November as a conferee for the WRRDA Conference Committee, representing the House Natural Resources Committee. She is also the senior California member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment. Her full floor statement can be viewed here. # # #
05.13.2014	(San Dimas, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) spoke at the San Dimas Chamber of Commerce’s legislative forum at the San Dimas Community Hospital. “Thank you for inviting me here this morning to discuss the most salient issues affecting our region,” Napolitano told the audience. “Whether it involves local transportation projects or challenges to small business growth, my dedicated staff and I are committed to working across all sectors to find solutions. It is a privilege to represent this area and to make your voices heard in Washington.” In addition to responding to questions raised by the Chamber of Commerce regarding the economy, transportation projects, water and California’s drought, small business, and immigration reform, Napolitano provided details on current legislation moving through Congress. She sponsored important provisions for Los Angeles County in H.R. 3080, the Water Resources and Reform Development Act (WRRDA) that will expand water supply, flood control, and recreation projects in the region. Napolitano expects the major bipartisan bill to be signed into law in the coming weeks. Napolitano encouraged attendees to provide feedback to her El Monte District Office and submit legislative priorities for the city and region. She is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee’s Water and Power Subcommittee and the senior California Democrat on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. ###
05.07.2014	DSC_0056.JPG (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), in cooperation with Mental Health Task Force members, Metta World Peace, Brandon & Michi Marshall, Jill Diamond; Members of Congress; and mental health advocates, recognized National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day (May 8) on Capitol Hill. “Thank you all for being here today as we paint the Capitol lime green for mental health awareness,” Napolitano said. “It is everyone’s responsibility to work together to eliminate stigma, and we must continue to let our youngsters know that it is always okay to seek help. These champions for mental health are here today volunteering their time because they understand how critical this issue is for our youth; our future leaders. I thank my colleagues and all those here in Washington and across the country for joining us in helping to raise awareness for mental health.” “I strongly believe that having access to mental health services will have a positive and lasting impact on our youth and I encourage anyone struggling or hurting to not be afraid to seek help,” said Metta World Peace, NBA Player and Founder of Excel University. “I applaud Congresswoman Napolitano for her tireless work on the Mental Health in Schools Act, and SAMHSA for their leadership role in advancing the behavioral health of our great nation. We must continue to work, on a national level, to increase mental health awareness in our cities, communities, and across the country.” “The topic of childhood mental health is one of great importance to Michi and me,” said Brandon Marshall, Chicago Bear and Co-Founder of the Brandon Marshall Foundation. “The average age when children begin to show signs of mental illness is 14, but the average age someone gets help is 24. If we can intervene early, we can save our children from years of suffering.” “Mental illness is often a physically invisible condition, but the scars it leaves on our society are real and devastating,” said Jill Diamond, Multiple Emmy Winner and Chair of World Boxing Cares. “That's why I am passionate about Grace Napolitano's work. It takes the strongest among us to protect the weakest. Right now, our children are shamed into silence, isolated by their fear of being different. Mental health should be their first liberty. Without it, we are a culture without a conscience.” To kick off National Mental Health Awareness Month on Capitol Hill Napolitano held a press conference with her Congressional colleagues, Mental Health Task Force members, and advocates wearing green ribbons to show support for May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. Following the press event the group took a photo on the Capitol steps (Photo above). In the afternoon Napolitano, Task Force members, and mental health advocates held a legislative briefing and panel discussion in recognition of National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day. The briefing highlighted the impact of trauma on positive youth development, systems of care, programs aimed at improving care coordination, and the service capacity of our current mental health system. The 32nd District Mental Health Task Force uses public events and media appearances to raise awareness about mental health related issues, especially those affecting youth. Napolitano is also the sponsor for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act. ###
05.06.2014	DSC_0108.JPG WASHINGTON – Representatives Ron Barber (AZ-2), Diana DeGette (CO-1), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), and Paul Tonko (NY-20) rolled out legislation Tuesday that would take a comprehensive approach to long-ignored mental health issues. The Strengthening Mental Health in Our Communities Act of 2014 renews a commitment to improving the lives of individuals and families impacted by mental illness by maximizing access to and increasing the impact of community-based services, making new investments in prevention and early intervention of mental illness, and advancing research into mental health. “This plan represents the future of mental health care in the United States,” the representatives said in a joint statement. “The challenges we face in closing the critical gap in mental health services can only be overcome by serious and sustained investments in existing programs that have shown to improve the lives of those afflicted with serious mental illness and robust research into new and innovative ways to treat and prevent mental illness. Those affected cannot be separated by party lines and our response must be equally nonpartisan.” "We must do more to improve access to community-based services for individuals with mental illness. This is not a partisan issue. I am proud to introduce this legislation that will strengthen our mental health system – asking more from existing programs and better outcomes for individuals and families impacted by mental illness," said lead sponsor of the legislation, Congressman Ron Barber. John Madigan, Vice President of Public Policy for the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP), welcomed the introduction of the legislation. “AFSP applauds the introduction of this milestone legislation that will truly strengthen access to mental health care in all of our communities across America. We urge all members of the House to work together to find a common ground so Americans can get the mental health services and programs that they need and deserve. We thank representatives Barber, DeGette, Matsui, Napolitano, and Tonko for moving this conversation forward,” said Madigan. “The Strengthening Mental Health in Our Communities Act recognizes the important role of schools in providing needed behavioral and mental health services for children. This bill would not only increase access to both community and school-employed mental health professionals, it would enhance collaboration and integration of services. Improving access to and effectiveness of services for prevention, early identification and intervention is critical to helping our children and youth thrive in school, and home, and in life,” said Dr. Stephen Brock, President-Elect of the National Association of School Psychologists. A full description of programs and initiatives proposed by the Strengthening Mental Health in Our Communities Act of 2014 can be found at https://barber.house.gov/issues/mental-health. The Strengthening Mental Health in Our Communities Act of 2014 represents a new, inclusive and far-reaching approach to fighting mental illness. Among the provisions, the legislation would: Create a White House Office for Mental Health Policy that is responsible for developing and implementing a national strategy to combat mental health; Bolster mental health for veterans and active duty service members; Establish a Mental Health Advisory Board of individuals with mental illness, parents and guardians of individuals with mental illness, mental health professionals, and others; Strengthen and invest in Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) programs; Improve Medicaid and Medicare mental health services and provide parity of mental health services; Develop the Behavioral Health Workforce, providing access to quality mental health care in communities nationwide. Enhance mental health research and coordination Provide grants for schools and communities to create comprehensive mental health programs; If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
05.05.2014	050314 Art Contest 371edit.jpg (San Dimas, CA) On Saturday, May 3, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) held a ceremony honoring the winners of the 2014 Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” for the 32nd Congressional District at the Walker House in San Dimas. “Our San Gabriel Valley has a tremendous number of talented young artists,” Napolitano said. “It is critical that we give these promising youngsters academic programs and scholarships to help them fully develop their talent. Thank you to all of the supportive teachers and parents for encouraging these young artists to express themselves creatively. We congratulate all of our students and are so proud to have their artwork represent our district.” Nhi Pham of Arroyo High School won first place with her work, “Windy.” “I am extremely excited and proud to be chosen among all of the amazing artists in our area,” Pham said. “I look forward to seeing all of the other artwork that has been selected across the nation.” For the next year, Pham’s work will hang in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol Building alongside other winning works of art from across the country. Napolitano’s office received a record of more than 200 art pieces from 16 high schools throughout the 32nd Congressional District, including Arroyo High School, Baldwin Park High School, Basset High School, Bonita High School, Duarte High School, El Monte High School, Gladstone High School, Los Altos High School, La Puente High School, Monrovia High School, Mountain View High School, Nogales High School, Northview High School, San Dimas High School, Sierra Vista High School and William Workman High School.Winners: First place: Nhi Pham, Arroyo High School. “Windy” Second place: Julie Hang, El Monte High School. “George Washington” Third place: Anessa Machuca, Northview High School. “Love At First Sight” Judges’ Choice: Ruby Mendiola, Arroyo High School. “Midnight Howl” Judges’ Choice: Daniel Chan, Northview High School. Untitled Judges’ Choice: Marilynn Christine Chavez, Sierra Vista High School. “School is Important to Me” Honorable Mention: Valeria Saucedo, Sierra Vista High School. “Enchainment” Honorable Mention: Raymond Phung, Sierra Vista High School. “Lizard” Honorable Mention: Julie Hang, El Monte High School. “Self-Portrait” Honorable Mention: Airene Cruz, Arroyo High School. Untitled Honorable Mention: Evelyn Alvarado, Sierra Vista High School. “Lost Edges” Honorable Mention: Karina Vega, Northview High School. “Speak up Now” Special Recognition Award: Jarely Bueno, Gladstone High School. “Psycho” The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of the participating Congressional Districts, and their artwork is put on display for a year in the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher.PHOTOS: A gallery of images can be found at www.facebook.com/RepGraceNapolitano. First place:https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/1st%20Place%20%281%29.JPGSecond place:https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/2ndPlace%20.JPGThird Place:https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/3rdPlace.jpg ###
05.01.2014	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) thanked President Barack Obama for proclaiming May as National Mental Health Awareness Month and announced the calendar of mental health events for May. “We applaud and thank President Obama and his administration for continuing to fight against stigma by issuing this critically important proclamation,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to work toward erasing stigma and promote mental wellness so all who are suffering know it is okay to seek help. In May we pay special recognition to the critical efforts of the mental health community and thank them for all their hard work throughout the year. We urge everyone to join in support for mental health awareness by wearing lime green this May.” Since 1949 advocates across the country have used May Mental Health Awareness Month to draw attention to mental health issues affecting millions of Americans. Below is a list of Congressional events that will be taking place during the month of May: May 7, 2014 – National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day. Briefing and panel discussion to highlight the impact of trauma on positive youth development, systems of care, programs aimed at improving care coordination, and the service capacity of our current mental health system.May 8, 2014 – Native American Youth Mental Health Panel. The panel will examine ways to curb the high rates of suicide among Native American youth and promote suicide prevention.May 21, 2014 – Military/Veteran Mental Health Awareness Day. The Military Mental Health Caucus will host a briefing about the ongoing mental health crisis in the military and what is being done to address it.May 29, 2014 – LGBT Family Acceptance & Youth Suicide Prevention. Briefing and panel discussion will focus on issues including anti-bullying efforts to prevent suicide among LGBT youth. Napolitano has been active in securing mental health parity in the Affordable Care Act, promoting mental health legislation, and working with prominent figures to increase funding and access to mental health services in Congress. Her 2001 program providing mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in four schools in her congressional district has expanded to 26 schools with assistance from Los Angeles County Mental Health, which now serves as a pilot program for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013. H.R. 628 currently has 83 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 22 cosponsors. Napolitano’s mental health efforts also focus on issues of Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) for veterans and their families.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For updates and the complete Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act. ###
04.17.2014	041714 Air Traffic Controller training center 003.JPG (El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited the Mt. San Antonio (Mt. SAC) Air Traffic Controller training center in Walnut to meet with students and faculty on how changes to the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) hiring process are hurting Collegiate Training Initiative (CTI) schools like Mt. SAC. “Mt. SAC year after year prepares students from our region with the necessary training and skills to enter the workforce,” Napolitano said. “It is critical that graduates from Mt. SAC and other CTI schools have an equal opportunity to compete for air traffic control positions. Air traffic controllers provide for our safe air travel, and we must ensure a fair application process, so the most qualified are able to pursue employment within the industry.” Mt. SAC is home to one of the 33 FAA certified Air Traffic CTI schools in the United States. CTIs partner with FAA on curriculum to produce qualified air traffic controllers. This year FAA added a new requirement that applicants must fill out and pass a biographical questionnaire in order to proceed in the hiring process. Mt. SAC and other CTI schools feel that the questionnaire is biased against their students, who are being removed from the application process without explanation and that their students should have the ability to continue with the application process. Napolitano joins them in their concern that the new hiring process is diminishing the role that CTI schools play in the FAA Air Traffic Control preparation process. Napolitano is the senior California Democrat on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. ###
04.16.2014	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) honored Kyle Kearney of West Covina with the Gold and Silver Congressional Award medallions for outstanding achievement and service. “We are so proud of Kyle’s years of hard work and accomplishments, and today we give him the recognition he deserves,” Napolitano said. “Kyle has touched the lives of so many youngsters through his mentorship in academics, sports, and photography. He is a well-rounded individual with a big heart and a bright future ahead. We congratulate him on achieving his goals, wish him continued success, and thank him for giving so much back to our community.” “It’s a really great honor to be able to meet my local Congresswoman and be awarded the Congressional Award Gold Medal,” said Kyle Kearney. “It has really been a culmination of a lot of work over the past two years. It helps with college applications, but it’s a lot of fun and teaches you about personal development, autonomy, and pushing yourself forward. I encourage everyone to register and get involved as soon as they can. It’s truly a great experience.” Kearney is 19 and currently attends UCLA, pursuing a degree in English. He qualified for both the gold and silver medals after completing 800 cumulative hours of service. The Congressional Award for youth is non-partisan, voluntary, and non-competitive. The program is open to all 14- to 23-year-olds. Participants earn Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Bronze, Silver and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas; Volunteer Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. To learn more, visit https://www.congressionalaward.org/. ###
04.11.2014	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the catastrophic bus crash last night in Orland, CA, claiming the lives of 10 people, 5 of them students: “It is with deep sadness that we mourn the loss of all those who died in yesterday’s crash. The youngsters were just beginning to have a life and were looking forward to a great education. We do not always understand why these tragedies occur, but we know they affect all of us in different ways. We are grateful for all of the first responders, and our thoughts continue to be with those injured. Our heartfelt condolences go out to all of the families, friends, and loved ones touched by this tragic event.” ###
04.11.2014	(Azusa, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored 24 women who had been nominated by volunteer organizations for exemplary service at the 2014 “Women of the Year” ceremony at the Azusa Woman’s Club in Azusa. “The general public does not realize the importance of volunteering in churches, civic organizations, and nonprofits that these women bring to their communities,” Napolitano said. “The efforts these women have made, which have taken them away from their families, are to be commended and celebrated. Our attempt to recognize a few of these women whose unselfish acts impact so many is symbolic of the countless unsung heroines who make a difference in so many lives. We thank them and their families, and we congratulate them on their achievements.” “It is truly a humbling honor to be recognized for something you feel everyone should be doing,” said Sonia Fernandez of San Gabriel Valley Civic Alliance. “I choose to volunteer because my parents and my grandmother always said to have compassion for others and do what you can to help someone else. You gain so much more than you give when you volunteer, and you truly can change a person’s life by a simple act that comes from your heart.” “I really believe in the work my organization does, it’s not just providing the service but working with partnerships in the community,” said Shana Sanchez of Azusa Neighborhood Homework House. “I found that volunteering is a very reciprocal relationship sometimes, and just as much where I have strengths and can teach someone else, I learn some much from the people I work with. Because of Congresswoman Napolitano’s extensive community work that she has been involved in, to be recognized by her and her office is a great honor.” Each woman’s name was submitted by their volunteer organization or community group which felt their contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked the women personally. The 2014 Women of the Year: Janice Alvarado, City of Glendora – La Fetra Center – Glendora Maria Rosa Berdin, Old Town Puente Association – La Puente Vicki Brown, La Verne Chamber of Commerce – La Verne Sylvia Chapman, San Dimas Sheriff’s Booster Club – San Dimas Susan Davis, San Dimas Historical Society – San Dimas Ofelia De Guzman, St. John the Baptist Catholic Church – Baldwin Park Madeline Escarcega, East Valley Boys and Girls Club – La Puente Carol Facciponti-Malcom, Citrus Valley Association of Realtors – Glendora Sonia Fernandez, San Gabriel Valley Civic Alliance – El Monte Mayra Galicia, The Vet Hunters Project – El Monte Denise Gutierrez, Esperanza Scholarship Foundation Dollars for Scholars – La Verne Ana Gutierrez, El Monte Promise Foundation – El Monte Dr. Denise Patton, Kiwanis Club of West Covina – West Covina Maggie Ramirez, El Monte Television Channel 3 – El Monte Willa Reynolds, Baldwin Park Adult & Community Education – Baldwin Park Gloria Romero, City of Azusa, Office of the Mayor – Pathfinder Ministry – Azusa Anita Ron, West Covina Lions – West Covina Shana Sanchez, Azusa Neighborhood Homework House – Azusa Beatriz Sandoval, L.A. Voice Baldwin Park – Baldwin Park Patricia Sipos, Hacienda La Puente Unified School District – Hacienda-La Puente Joanne Spring, City of Monrovia – Monrovia Dr. Kimlin Tam Ashing, City of Hope – Duarte Vicke Thrower, Monrovia School Board – Monrovia Janet Wickersham, Azusa Neighborhood Homework House - Azusa ###
04.03.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) received the Humane Advocate Award for her leadership on animal protection legislation in 2013. “It is a great honor to receive this award alongside so many of my colleagues,” Napolitano said. “Animals cannot speak for themselves, so it is critical that we lend our voices by voting to protect their interests. Thank you to the Humane Society for the recognition, and I look forward to continuing to work with you to ensure our federal laws support the proper treatment of animals.” The Humane Society Legislative Fund annually compiles a federal Humane Scorecard to highlight animal protection issues considered by the U.S. Congress, which allows animal advocates to assess the performance of their Senators and Representatives. The scorecard tracks key votes and cosponsorship of important pro-animal bills and support for adequate funding needed to enforce key animal welfare laws. Napolitano joined 160 other legislators in receiving awards for their work in 2013. A complete list of 2013 awardees can be seen here. # # #
03.24.2014	(Baldwin Park, CA) On Saturday, March 22, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a forum to update local residents on the EPA Superfund site cleanup in Baldwin Park, where groundwater contamination has affected the San Gabriel Basin for over 35 years. “It is critical for Southern California to work together for the health and safety of all,” Napolitano said. “Residents need to be more aware of what is in their water, and we must ensure funding to fight the spread of contamination. We will continue to outreach to cities and regional water entities to identify shovel-ready, drought-proof projects that will create new water and jobs. We must also continue to promote local conservation, recycling, and storage programs as we prepare for future drought cycles.” Presenters at the event spoke about water quality issues and the ongoing Superfund cleanup, which included Tony Zampiello, San Gabriel Valley Water Association; Steve Johnson, Stetson Engineering; Adrianna Quintero, Senior Attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council; Wayne Praskins, EPA; Ken Manning, Water Quality Authority; and members of ‘The Toxies,’ a multi-media campaign to keep communities safe from toxic chemicals and pollutants. The Superfund site, which is approximately the size of Rhode Island, has treated over 75 billion gallons of contaminated groundwater and removed approximately 60,000 pounds of contaminants from the groundwater and 48,000 pounds of contaminants from the soil. # # #
03.24.2014	(Washington, DC) On Saturday, March 22, 2014, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), and Janice Hahn (CA-44), held a discussion, When Women Succeed, America Succeeds, promoting an economic agenda for women. “Women work twice as hard and are still earning less,” Napolitano said. “Equal pay would provide needed security and would put more money back into the local economy, which is good for individuals, families, and businesses. Believe in yourselves, mentor other women, and get involved. You need to not only help elect candidates that support these critical women’s issues, but write those who do not, and hold them accountable.” “Today nearly half of all workers in America are women, and 40 percent of working women are the primary breadwinners in their families,” said Congresswoman Roybal-Allard. “It is unacceptable that women on average receive 77 cents for every dollar paid to male workers.” “Today, women across the country are facing unprecedented economic insecurity,” said Congresswoman Hahn. “Right now, 42 million women and the 28 million children who rely on them are living in poverty or on the brink of poverty. Too many of us in this room know what it means to live paycheck to paycheck and not have the flexibility at work to care for your family.” Over 200 people participated in the forum, which was held at the Council Chambers of the Commerce City Hall. Other speakers included California State Senator Holly Mitchell; Los Angeles City Community College President, Renee D. Martinez; UCLA Assistant Dean for Diversity Initiatives & Community Relations, Kimberly Freeman; LAANE Executive Director, Patricia Castellanos; and local residents. The discussion focused on the Women’s Economic Agenda’s three main pillars: Work & Family Balance, Affordable Child Care, and Equal Pay, as well as actions that can be taken to address these issues. # # #
03.21.2014	(Industry, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) welcomed U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to the City of Industry to survey the Nogales Street highway-rail grade separation project under construction north of State Route 60. “Secretary Foxx understands that 45 percent of our nation’s goods travel through Southern California,” Napolitano said. “We thank him for coming to see the progress of these critical transportation projects and look forward to working with him to ensure the safe travel of goods and people in our region.” Rep. Ed Royce (CA-39) and members of the Alameda Corridor-East (ACE) Construction Authority Board of Directors joined Secretary Foxx and Napolitano at today’s site visit. After completion of the project in 24 months, the roadway underpass and railroad bridge will eliminate collisions, delays for emergency responders and train horn noise while reducing traffic congestion and vehicle emissions. They also toured the nearby confluence of State Routes 60 and 57 for a briefing on improvement plans. Napolitano is the senior California Democrat on the House Transportation Committee and will continue to fight to provide funds for projects like these in the next transportation bill. # # #
03.20.2014	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) toured the newly opened El Monte Veterans Village, an affordable housing project for veterans in the Los Angeles area, developed by Mercy Housing California, which features in-house veterans services provided by New Directions, including case management, job training, family reunification, legal services, health and wellness programs, and support groups. “It was a great privilege to see the El Monte Veterans Village and learn about all of the services available to our heroes and their families,” Napolitano said. “Our community has not forgotten the great sacrifices our veterans made for us fighting overseas.” Napolitano later in the day met with Acting Director of the VA Long Beach Healthcare System, Skye McDougall, PhD, regarding difficulty that constituents have been experiencing in registering. “It is critical that our veterans register with the VA so they may receive the health services they have earned, including mental health services,” Napolitano said. “We reiterated to Dr. McDougall that our office is willing to assist in any way possible to make the registration process easier and ensure a smooth transition for all veterans.” If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. # # #
03.19.2014	(Monrovia, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) toured the Monrovia factories of aerospace companies, ITT Exelis and Ducommun AeroStructures, to discuss local manufacturing and job creation. “Our San Gabriel Valley is privileged to host factories of so many companies, which stimulate our local economy and provide good paying jobs,” Napolitano said. “It is critical that we educate our youngsters and give them the tools to meet the future demands of STEM industry companies. We must also encourage more businesses like Exelis and Ducommun to keep their manufacturing here while allowing them access to domestic and international markets.” ITT Exelis employs 161 people at its Monrovia location and houses the administrative services to support the Deep Space Network used by the Jet Propulsion Lab (JPL) and NASA. Ducommun, Inc. is California’s oldest company, employs 460 people in Monrovia, and manufactures rotor blades, flight control surfaces, structural panels, and winglets servicing the aerospace, defense, industrial, oil-and-gas, mining, and medical markets. # # #
03.18.2014	(Azusa, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited Rancho Vasquez, an organic avocado orchard in Azusa, to survey the area affected by the recent mudslide caused by flooding as a result of the Colby Fire disaster in January. She received an update from ranch vice-president, Vincent Vasquez, who led Napolitano and her staff on a tour of the grounds. “We are thankful that the destruction by the Colby Fire was not greater, but the resulting mudslides in burnt areas of the Foothills will be a serious concern for a while,” Napolitano said. “It is encouraging to see farms like Rancho Vasquez begin to recover after suffering damages, and we must continue to ensure support for residences and businesses in the event of future disasters.” Napolitano later visited the Azusa location of Vulcan Materials Company, the nation’s largest producer of construction aggregates. “Local materials are critical for our manufacturing sector,” Napolitano said. “The San Gabriel Valley benefits greatly from suppliers like Vulcan, which strengthens our local infrastructure and creates jobs in our region.” Project Manager, Mike Redford, and Permitting Manager, Jeff Cameron, showed Napolitano and her staff the site. Vulcan specializes in primarily crushed stone, sand and gravel and is a major producer of aggregates-based construction materials, including asphalt and ready-mixed concrete. It supplied all of the aggregates used for the recent construction of the I-10 Carpool Lanes as well as the backfill for the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension Phase 2A, which will connect Pasadena to Azusa. # # #
03.14.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power, and Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Natural Resources Committee Member, introduced H.R. 4258, the SECURE Water Amendments Act, legislation extending the authority of the water conservation and sustainability program, which also includes Hawaii’s eligibility to compete for the Department of Interior’s WaterSMART grants. “Growing populations, increased energy development, widespread drought, and water use due to climate change magnify our need for an improved understanding of water use and availability,” Napolitano said. “The successful WaterSMART grants have provided California and the other western Reclamation states much needed water agency support in developing local, sustainable water supplies, and we are encouraged that Hawaii, thanks to Congresswoman Hanabusa, will now be eligible for these grants. The reauthorization of the SECURE Water Act of 2009 will continue to create jobs, save money, and prepare our communities for future drought cycles.” “I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this important measure, reauthorizing the SECURE Water Act of 2009,” said Hanabusa. “Among the bill’s provisions is a clarification that projects in the State of Hawaii are eligible for grants to plan for droughts. But this measure does far more through continuing the partnership with local governments and water users to preserve and maintain this critical resource. We have seen both the devastation brought by droughts, and how programs under WaterSMART grants have contributed to drought resiliency in the West. This bill deserves our support.” Reauthorizing the SECURE Water Act increases funding for WaterSMART grants, which fund locally cost-shared water management improvements that save significant amounts of water. Approved projects will receive funding as needed from 2014 through 2023. H.R. 4258 also reauthorizes the authority for USGS to give grants to state water resource agencies to develop better data about water availability and usage. It has 17 original cosponsors and is the companion bill to S. 2019, sponsored by Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI). # # #
03.12.2014	DSC_0926EDIT.jpg (Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), and Tony Cárdenas (CA-29), in conjunction with the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California (MWD), hosted a Congressional briefing on the impacts drought is having on California’s economy and the policies that are needed to improve water supply reliability in the short- and long-term. “We are in the midst of a historic drought, the driest calendar year since 1849,” Napolitano said. “While Southern California water agencies have made critical investments in conservation and storage efforts over the last several decades, this year’s historic dry conditions reinforce the urgency to plan for a reliable water future in California. All of California is suffering from this drought, so we must all work together to find solutions that benefit our whole state, not just a segment.” "There is little doubt that all Californians face a future of increased weather variability and decreased snowpack," Lowenthal said. "We must manage our state's water even more efficiently than we have in the past. We need an 'all-of-the-above' solution, starting with water conservation and recycling. But this is going to take an 'all-hands-on-deck' response." “The effects of this drought impact every single Californian,” said Cárdenas. “Solutions will take government and private sector collaboration. It will also take all Californians, from every part of our state, coming together for the good of the economy and for the protection and future of our families.” The briefing, titled, “Responding to the California Drought – Water Reliability Now and For the Future,” was held to engage and educate CA delegation members on the State’s proposal known as the Bay Delta Conservation Plan (BDCP). California’s fresh water supply is vulnerable to earthquakes and other natural disasters, and the BDCP is designed to modernize the State’s delivery system for fresh drinking water to ensure a safe, adequate supply, while also restoring the Bay Delta. Panelists at the briefing discussed actions needed now and how the BDCP supports a reliable water future. Speakers included newly appointed U.S. Dept. of Interior Deputy Secretary Mike Connor; Jay Jensen, Associate Director for Land and Water Ecosystems at the White House Council for Environmental Quality; MWD General Manager, Jeff Kightlinger; and California Natural Resources Agency Undersecretary Janelle Beland. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. VIDEO: https://youtu.be/j1dBgjmrhBo # # #
03.05.2014	DSC_0869EDIT.jpg (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) joined STEMconnector with its national partners and corporate sponsors in launching the Million Women Mentors (MWM) initiative, which seeks to advance women and girls in STEM careers through mentoring. “All of you can mentor one girl. Mentor one and that becomes a model for others to join,” Napolitano said. “Mentoring gives our young ladies the tools to succeed and helps them understand their own value so they are able to carry that forth. Thank you Edie Fraser for leading this effort, as we look to empower more young women to be our future leaders.” Napolitano was introduced at the kickoff by Robert Bard, President/CEO of LATINA Style, Inc., one of the national partners of MWM. “Congresswoman Napolitano is exactly what the spirit of STEMconnector is,” said Bard. “If we are looking for mentors, there is no better mentor in this country in our community than her.” Between 2010 and 2020, STEM-related employment is projected to increase by 16.5% to over 8.5 million jobs. MWM, an initiative of STEMconnector, leads a national call to action to change the face of STEM education, pathways and careers by engaging one million science, technology, and math mentors (male and female) to support girls and young women with STEM skills. # # #
03.05.2014	(Washington, DC) Last night, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) was honored by the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Development Disability Directors (NACBHDD) for her continued leadership on mental health issues in Congress. “It is a great honor to join my colleagues in receiving this award,” Napolitano said. “We look forward to continuing to work with mental health advocates across the country to decrease stigma, ensuring those suffering from mental illness seek help. Thank you for allowing us to meet with you and continue to strive to help those most vulnerable in our society.” Reps. Bobby Scott (VA-03), Ron Barber (AZ-02), Paul Tonko (NY-20), and Tim Ryan (OH-13) were also recognized by the NACBHDD for their commitment to mental health. Last year Napolitano sponsored Congressional briefings throughout the year and during May Mental Health Month, helped launch the National Association of Broadcasters’ OK2Talk PSA Campaign, participated in Worldwide Suicide Prevention Day, and encouraged colleagues and advocates to wear lime green in May to raise awareness for mental health. Her 2001 pilot program providing mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in four schools in her congressional district has expanded to 26 schools with assistance from Los Angeles County Mental Health, which now serves as a pilot program for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013. It currently has 80 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 22 cosponsors. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
02.27.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the Senate Confirmation of Michael Connor as Deputy Secretary for the Department of the Interior: “Today’s confirmation of Mike Connor as Deputy Secretary is great and very welcome news. Mike has dedicated his career to the protection and management of our most precious natural resources, especially water. Congratulations, Deputy Secretary Connor, and we look forward to working with you in your new capacity.” Michael L. Connor was confirmed Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation by the United States Senate on May 21, 2009. During his tenure he led Reclamation’s efforts to promote the sustainable use of water to effectively address current and future challenges associated with water supply and power generation in the American West. # # #
02.25.2014	DSC_0709.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-Calif.), Co-Chair and founder of the Congressional Youth ChalleNGe Caucus, joined U.S. Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.), Honorary Co-Chair of the National Guard Youth Foundation (NGYF), and members of the NGYF Board of Directors at a press conference to announce that Major League Baseball Hall of Famer Johnny Bench will serve as a national spokesman for the program. The NGYF supports the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program, a public-private partnership with the National Guard that intervenes with high school dropouts, producing program graduates with the values, life skills, education, and self-discipline necessary to succeed as productive citizens. “I am proud to be here to continue support for a program that turns around the lives of so many forgotten youth,” Napolitano said. “Their future is a bipartisan issue. Our children deserve the attention from all sides, not one or the other, but all of us working together. We must continue to bring all agencies together, as this program not only benefits our youth; it benefits families, businesses, and is worth every penny to our society, community, state, and country. We thank Johnny Bench and look forward to working with him to help our young people, our future leaders.” “In 1968, I was Rookie of the Year. I’m going to try and be Rookie of the Year again for this organization,” said Johnny Bench. “I never had the opportunity to go to college, but all my life I’ve had structure, and I think education is key. I feel we have a responsibility to ensure that today’s youth have the greatest opportunities. About 75 percent of the students who go into this program graduate with a GED or high school diploma, which is very encouraging. These students, who’ve fallen once, twice, or even three times, find this program and commit to making a difference. I’m excited to be a part of this great program, and I look forward to working with the people I know in the sports community and the leaders of this organization to make Youth ChalleNGe stronger and better for the next class of graduates.” Bench’s new role as spokesperson will raise awareness of the dropout problem and the long-term positive impact ChalleNGe is having on the lives of more 9,000 youth every year.“Every year, one million students drop out of school, some at the age of 12. That’s more than the populations of New Orleans, Baton Rouge and Lafayette, combined, and that is extremely disheartening” said Sen. Landrieu. "It is encouraging to see what bright, well-rounded and successful adults these participants of this program can become. From a purely financial perspective, for every $1 we spend on the Youth ChalleNGe program, we get $2.66 back – a 166 percent return on our investment. That’s a phenomenal investment for the government to make. This program has the support of Democratic and Republican members of Congress and governor’s across the country. It’s a sound investment in this country’s future, and I look forward to working with Johnny Bench to expand this program.” Napolitano in the afternoon traveled to the Pentagon where she addressed the directors of all 35 Youth ChalleNGe programs, urging them to reach out to their Congressional Representatives and business leaders. She also congratulated cadets and encouraged them to share their stories at a luncheon earlier in the day on Capitol Hill. “Society had given up on us, but we were seeking change to become better people,” said Humberto Palacios, 2012 graduate of the Sunburst Academy. “The ChalleNGe program builds a home, something we never had; creates a family, something we always wanted; but most of all, it creates hope.” “Persevere, and you can prove them wrong,” Napolitano said, addressing cadets at luncheon. “We believe in you, you have got to believe in yourselves. To all of you, we wish you continued success.” Napolitano helped secure an additional $10 million in funding for the Youth ChalleNGe program for 2014, cosponsoring an amendment to the Defense Appropriations Act of 2014, offered by Youth ChalleNGe Caucus Co-Chair, Rep. David McKinley (R-W.Va.). California has two programs: Sunburst Academy (Los Alamitos) and Grizzly Academy (San Luis Obispo), graduating 700 students annually. Every year, nearly one million students drop out of school, costing our economy $1.8 billion in lost revenue annually. ChalleNGe, found in two independent studies by MDRC and RAND to be cost-effective and successful in reengaging youth to complete their high school education, is a voluntary, second-chance program for youth who’ve dropped out of school. ChalleNGe has helped more than 120,000 youth since its inception in 1993. NGYF provides scholarships and facilitates internships and job opportunities for its graduates. # # #
02.20.2014	(Monrovia, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) toured the Monrovia factories of high-tech aerospace companies, Roncelli Plastics and AeroVironment, to discuss local economic issues and job creation. “It is inspiring to see the technology being developed in our own backyard,” Napolitano said. “American manufacturing means American jobs, so we must continue to encourage more businesses to produce goods locally to protect jobs here at home.” Napolitano was joined by Monrovia Mayor Mary Ann Lutz, Alexis Bakofsky and Lauren Vazquez of the City of Monrovia, and Brad Jensen of the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership. Roncelli Plastics has 82 full-time employees and specializes in computer numerically controlled machining for the cutting of plastics used for aerospace products for both the defense and commercial industries. AeroVironment, featured on the cover of Time Magazine in November 2011 for its Hummingbird drone, employs 92 full-time workers and is a leader in unmanned aircraft technology and electric vehicle solutions. # # #
02.19.2014	(Industry, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) participated in the Bi-COG (San Gabriel Valley & Gateway Cities Councils of Government) roundtable discussion at the Pacific Palms Hotel in the City of Industry, focusing on innovative financial approaches to spur economic development in cities, school districts, and private projects. “The Community Block Grant Program has been cut in half, so it is critical that folks acquaint themselves with other avenues of funding,” Napolitano said. “We are grateful to the City of Industry and the COGs for hosting us today and encourage all of our cities to take full advantage of available financial resources, so that we may continue to grow our local economy and create jobs.” Over 100 people attended the Bi-COG event, including Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40) and Maxine Waters (CA-43); President/CEO of Clearinghouse CDFI, Doug Bystry; Deputy Executive Director of the California Infrastructure and Economic Development Bank, Ruben Rojas; city managers, school board members, and financial advisors. # # #
02.19.2014	(El Monte, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano visited Arroyo High School in El Monte to attend a rehearsal of the Wind Ensemble as they prepare for their upcoming performance at the Kennedy Center in April. “Music and the arts are critical components of our educational system,” Napolitano said. “We are so proud of our young musicians, celebrate their successes, and look forward to seeing them perform on the national stage soon.” The Arroyo Wind Ensemble, led by Director of Bands, Joe Massaro, is a select group of 45 musicians auditioned from the total band which consists of over 120 musicians. They have been selected to perform at the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC in April and will meet with Napolitano in her DC office. # # #
02.05.2014	(Washington, D.C.) The following statement was issued today by Democratic Reps. Grace Napolitano (CA-32), George Miller (CA-11), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Ami Bera (CA-07), John Garamendi (CA-03), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Adam Schiff (CA-28), and Juan Vargas (CA-51): All of California is in drought, but instead of working together on a long-term, bipartisan solution, our Republican colleagues have brought a bill to the floor today without any markup or hearing, which bypasses any public input. If enacted into law, this water grab would hurt California’s economy, damage our environment, and set a dangerous precedent of Congress imposing mandates on the water supplies of the states. This bill benefits a small group of Californians and creates no new water in the region. We have received letters from our home state’s Governor, Natural Resources Secretary, and Attorney General in strong opposition to H.R. 3964. The Western States Water Council opposed last Congress’ version of this bill (H.R. 1837) for its preemption of states’ rights, and the Obama Administration opposes the bill because it fails to alleviate the effects of California's current drought and threatens water agreements in the west. 80 California sportsmen’s groups, commercial fishing industry groups, national conservation organizations, and Indian tribes also oppose this bill. This bill has no chance of enactment, and it would create more litigation over water if it were to pass, but even as a failed bill it hinders collaborative efforts being made throughout the State. It is time for real solutions; H.R. 3964 is not it. H.R. 3964, authored by Rep. David Valadao (R-CA) and cosponsored by the entire California Republican delegation, would override California’s state water rights, undo water settlements, and roll back environmental protections in order to give powerful agricultural interests in the Central Valley a greater share of California’s water. The bill ultimately passed by a vote of 229 to 191. ###
02.03.2014	(Azusa, CA) On Saturday, February 1, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) called for action on mental health at the Azusa Cares Mental Wellness Workshop, part of a mayoral series of free high quality and culturally sensitive seminars hosted by the city of Azusa. “Mental wellness is just as important as physical wellness,” Napolitano said. “We focus on reducing stigma, providing warning signs, and also ensuring that those suffering know it is always okay to ask for help. We are very grateful to the city of Azusa for giving this issue the attention it deserves.” Over 40 people attended Saturday’s educational seminar on mental wellness. Napolitano was joined by local elected officials, community leaders, and mental health professionals committed to eliminating the stigma that surrounds mental illness. Napolitano has been active in securing mental health parity in the Affordable Care Act, promoting mental health legislation, and working with prominent figures to increase funding and access to mental health services in Congress. Her 2001 pilot program providing mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in four schools in her congressional district has expanded to 26 schools with assistance from Los Angeles County Mental Health, which now serves as a pilot program for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013. It currently has 80 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 22 cosponsors. Napolitano’s mental health efforts also focus on issues of Post-Traumatic Stress (PTS) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) for veterans and their families. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. # # #
01.30.2014	(La Verne, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano spoke at the University of La Verne’s Water Technology Conference on 2014 legislative priorities for water and energy. She outlined steps that Congress can take to address California’s water management issues and increase access to water technology. “Water is life, and we all depend on it to survive,” Napolitano said. “In this difficult time of drought, it is critical that we conserve water. We must also continue to educate and inform the public and our elected officials about the need for water legislation and action to take place.” Napolitano updated participants on the status of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) Conference, a group of House and Senate lawmakers tasked with writing the final version of H.R. 3080, to which she was appointed a conferee in November. Napolitano sponsored important provisions for Los Angeles County in WRRDA that will expand water supply, flood control, and recreation projects in the region. The final bill is still being negotiated, but Napolitano believes it will be signed into law in the coming months. Napolitano also warned about actions that Congress should not take with regard to California’s water supply. California House Republicans introduced legislation this past week (H.R. 3964) that bypassed regular order and is expected to be voted on next week. This bill would preempt states water rights and add no new water in the region. “We should be working together to pass bills that are good for all of California, not just a segment of California,” Napolitano said. “We need collaborative, regional planning to combat future drought cycles and address our water management issues. Thank you to the University of La Verne for organizing this conference and continuing the critical dialogue on the future of California water.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Water and Power Subcommittee and a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. # # #
01.28.2014	(Washington, D.C.) Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “The recovery has been slow, but it is evident. I applaud President Obama for renewing his call to strengthen the middle class, but we must ensure that job creation is at the local level. We must grow businesses here at home but also secure business investments from abroad. I am glad he continues to focus on jobs and educating our workforce. Our children are our future leaders and the most precious resource we have. We must educate and train our youngsters to give them every opportunity to succeed.” “We hope to pass comprehensive immigration reform this year that the President will sign. We will continue to push for true reform that includes an earned path to citizenship and keeps families together. This is what the voters have indicated they want in poll after poll; it is time to get it done.” “The state of mental health in America is another area we must address. We made some progress in 2013 through mental health parity and expanding coverage, but stigma must be eliminated to catch problems early on and encourage those suffering to seek help.” “California’s recent declaration of a drought emergency is a serious issue, and our communities would not be able to move forward without government assistance. We must develop new methods of water storage and recycling, and it is critical that we all conserve water.” “I remain focused on the needs of constituents throughout our 32nd District and am committed to working closely with local elected officials and business owners. We will be holding community events to connect residents to services in the San Gabriel Valley. We must all increase our outreach to veterans and their families to ensure access to the benefits they have earned and deserve. We can grow our economy by repairing aging infrastructure and improving transit through rail and buses.” # # #
01.28.2014	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, voted against H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, which passed the House of Representatives and would restrict how women with private insurance can spend private dollars in purchasing health insurance. “We should be working together on creating jobs, reforming our immigration system, and growing our economy,” Napolitano said. “Instead the Republican-led House has wasted time proposing a bill that has no chance of being passed and undermines the privacy rights of women everywhere.” # # #
01.24.2014	(Azusa, CA) Yesterday, January 23, 2014, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) visited businesses in Azusa to learn about the services they provide and the impact they have on local residents. Napolitano toured the factory of Veolia Environmental Services, which offers its customers cost effective, safe, and environmentally friendly waste solutions, employing approximately 115 full-time workers. “Veolia is assisting small businesses and individuals in our communities with vital waste removal needs,” Napolitano said. “They are managing to recycle nearly everything they collect in a safe, responsible manner.” Napolitano also visited Neighborhood Homework House. Homework House is a nonprofit organization that works to create and maintain neighborhood-based learning centers in Azusa. “The educators at Homework House understand how critical it is we give our youngsters every chance to succeed,” Napolitano said. “I applaud their dedication to ensuring the academic success of at-risk youth in Azusa.” Earlier in the week, Napolitano also met with local elected officials from Covina and La Puente as part of a productive district work period. # # #
01.22.2014	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) toured LA Freightliner, an innovative truck manufacturing company in Los Angeles County. As a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Napolitano received feedback from the owners of LA Freightliner on how transportation policy can boost American manufacturing. “It is inspiring to see the technology being produced in our own backyard,” Napolitano said. “We must encourage more companies like Freightliner to promote American-made products through enacting smarter regulations while continuing to protect the environment. LA Freightliner sells environmentally friendly trucks to independent companies in Southern California. Napolitano is the Senior California Democratic member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. # # #
12.18.2013	IMG_8711edit.jpg (El Monte, CA) On Saturday, December 14, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) hosted a free healthcare enrollment event for residents of the 32nd District to sign up for health coverage through Covered California or Medi-Cal. The event was held at Lambert Park Auditorium in El Monte. “It is wonderful to be here, and I want to express my gratitude to the city of El Monte and all the staff that helped put this together,” Napolitano said. “The last day to enroll is December 23, so be sure to remind your family, friends, and neighbors so that they are covered. We are encouraged by today’s attendance, and we will continue to hold events to connect constituents with service providers.” Special guest California State Senator Ed Hernandez (SD-24) joined Congresswoman Napolitano in El Monte to encourage enrollment in healthcare. “It is great to work with Congresswoman Napolitano to make these services available to our constituents,” said Senator Hernandez. “We are here today to help you sign up for coverage. Do not be afraid of signing up. This is something that is very important. Utilize these healthcare services and ask questions.” 12 Covered California certified enrollment counselors from the Community Health Alliance of Pasadena (ChapCare) and L.A. Care Health Plan registered more than 40 families from the 32nd District and surrounding area for health coverage. December 23, 2013 is the last day to sign up at Covered California in order for health insurance to begin by January 1, 2014. Visit coveredca.com for more information. # # #
12.12.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013: “This deal is far from perfect, but it is a positive step toward enacting a long-term budget solution and putting an end to governing in a crisis environment,” Napolitano said. “It is unfortunate that this agreement does not extend unemployment insurance for 1.3 million Americans. We must address unemployment insurance at the beginning of next year and protect those hardest hit by the rebounding economy. It is critical that we continue to come together to find spending solutions for the sake of our veterans, seniors, children, and hardworking families.” ###
12.12.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Ron Barber (AZ-02), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Bobby Scott (VA-03), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), and Jackie Speier (CA-14) co-hosted a mental health training administered by the House Office of Employee Assistance (HOEA) for Members of Congress and their staff in advance of the one year anniversary of the tragic shooting in Newtown, Connecticut. “We have made positive strides in mental health in 2013, and we must continue to build on this momentum and eliminate stigma,” said Rep. Grace Napolitano. “Mental illness knows no boundaries, affects all segments of our society, regardless of race, class, or gender. By educating ourselves and our staff, we are creating healthier workplaces and ensuring that we can be prepared in the event of crises. I sincerely thank all of my colleagues and their staff for participating in the training, and in our effort to raise mental health awareness by speaking out and bringing light to a long neglected issue. It is critical that everyone – elected officials, mental health professionals, and the general public – be part of the conversation, become properly informed and educated about mental health. We can prevent tragedies and save lives through educating people on the warning signs of mental health issues, connecting them with available resources, and encouraging them to seek help.” “Much work remains to be done to improve mental health care in our country,” said Rep. Paul Tonko. “Whether it’s improving access or delivery of care, removing the stigma that comes from seeking help, or simply raising awareness, we have many issues that can only be successfully tackled in a bipartisan fashion.” “An estimated 1 in 5 adults experiences a mental illness in any given year, so this type of training is beneficial for everyone,” said Rep. Ron Barber. “Most mental illnesses are treatable and this event gives people some of the tools they need to help a person in need get assistance. And it could help identify individuals who are a danger to themselves or others.” “"Mental health affects every aspect of one's life – from physical health to one's ability to succeed in school, at work, and in society,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “It is important that we both educate ourselves about mental illness and ensure that our nation's health policies include a full spectrum of care services for mental health disorders. The reality of the situation is that most families in the United States are affected by mental illness in some capacity. You can look at the recent tragedy involving a member of the Virginia State Senate and his son who was left untreated for mental health problems. That is the reason we are having this training today – even politicians such as Members of Congress and members of their staff are not immune to mental health challenges any more than we are immune to cancer or heart attacks. This training represents a small step towards making sure that all Americans understand the full implications of mental health by raising awareness and encouraging others to better identify and more effectively respond to the mental health issues facing millions of Americans.” “Today’s Mental Health training adds to our continued fight to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “As a psychiatric social worker by profession, I know how important quality mental health care is to our families, our workplaces, and our communities.” “Educating ourselves on how vital mental health is to a quality life is critical,” said Rep. Jackie Speier. “People who suffer with mental illness must be treated with respect and compassion. Sometimes mental illness is identified yet ignored. We need to see it as less of a stigma and more as a disease that deserves treatment. Learning what those signs are and increased training on the matter will go a long way toward keeping us all safe.” Today's training provided information on how to recognize the signs and symptoms of mental illness and stress factors. Attendees learned what to do in a crisis situation and how to locate appropriate mental health resources. The training, conducted by licensed mental health professionals through HOEA, focused on how to properly address mental health care in the workplace.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). ###
12.11.2013	Brandon and Michi3.jpg (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) welcomed Chicago Bears wide receiver, Brandon Marshall and his wife Michi of the Brandon Marshall Foundation as the newest members of the Mental Health Task Force, a group of prominent figures who lend their voices to help rid the stigma against mental health and increase the availability and awareness of mental health services. “We are honored to be selected to serve on this distinguished committee,” said the Marshalls. “Together, with this amazing roster of mental health advocates, we know we can raise unprecedented awareness, reverse the negative stigmas associated with mental illness and truly help those suffering.” “Brandon Marshall is an extraordinary athlete and advocate whose courage to speak about his own mental health is having a positive impact across our nation,” Napolitano said. “Brandon and Michi’s work at the Foundation raises awareness for mental illness, encouraging youth to talk about their struggles, seek the help they need, and realize they are able to lead healthy, productive lives. Our Mental Health Task Force proudly welcomes Brandon and Michi, as we look forward to partnering with them to eliminate stigma and save lives.” The Marshalls created the Brandon Marshall Foundation in 2011 after making public Brandon's diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder. He brought more attention and awareness to the issue this past October when he wore lime green cleats during a football game to recognize National Mental Health Awareness Week. The NFL fined Marshall $10,500 for failing to comply with its uniform rules. Marshall responded saying “the fine is nothing compared to the conversation started and the awareness raised.” The Mental Health Task Force uses public events and media appearances to reduce stigma and raise awareness about mental health related issues, especially those affecting youth. Napolitano is also the sponsor for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. Other Mental Health Task Force members include New York Knick, Metta World Peace; three-time female world boxing champion and mental health advocate, Mia St. John; Dancing with the Stars professional, Mark Ballas; actor, Arjay Smith; and founder/chair of World Boxing Cares, Jill Diamond.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
12.06.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano called for increased rail safety through the implementation of Positive Train Control (PTC) in the wake of the Metro-North derailment which occurred on Sunday, December 1 in the Bronx borough of New York City. “My heart goes out to the families of the victims of the recent Metro-North train derailment,” Napolitano said. “These accidents are preventable, and Congress must make rail safety a bigger priority. As we look to reauthorize the Passenger Rail Act next year, we must defeat any efforts to weaken PTC to ensure that head-on collision accidents, speeding accidents, and engineer failure accidents will never happen again.” PTC technology works by using computers to monitor the position and location of different trains and automatically employ braking and safety measures if a potential collision is detected. Napolitano consistently fought efforts in last year’s Transportation Bill (MAP-21) to prevent or delay PTC implementation. On Monday, December 2, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) confirmed that PTC would have prevented the crash. Following the catastrophic Southern California Metrolink accident in 2008 which killed 25 people and injured 135, Congress enacted the bipartisan Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008. Napolitano and her California colleagues included a provision in this law that requires railroads to implement Positive Train Control (PTC) on passenger rail lines and lines carrying dangerous toxic-by-inhalation hazardous materials by December 31, 2015. Congress will begin work on a new reauthorization of the Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act in 2014. Metrolink is leading the nation on PTC implementation and projects to have PTC fully operational on its rail lines by the end of next year. Napolitano is the Senior California Democratic member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. # # #
11.20.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement regarding new funding opportunities now available through WaterSMART: “Meeting our existing water needs is critical as we prepare for future drought cycles,” Napolitano said. “California can benefit greatly through WaterSMART’s new opportunities for funding projects as we consider all options to solve our water problems. These grants will continue to assist communities in securing their long term water supply and create good paying jobs in our region.” Earlier this week, the California Department of Water Resources announced a dismal initial allocation of 5% for the State Water Project. The current hydrologic state only stresses the need for WaterSMART Projects, like water recycling. Applicants are eligible to request cost-shared funding for the planning, design, or construction of these projects. Rep. Napolitano sits on the Natural Resources Committee and serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power. Background: · The WaterSMART program was established by Former Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar in February 2010. · It allows all bureaus of the Department to work with states and local entities to pursue a sustainable water supply. · The funding opportunity is available by searching funding opportunity number R14AS00001 on www.grants.gov. · Proposals must be submitted as indicated on www.grants.gov by Jan. 23, 2014 at 4 p.m. MST. · For more information, visit www.usbr.gov/WaterSMART # # #
11.18.2013	(El Monte, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano congratulated ChapCare as one of a select group of U.S. health centers that will receive funding under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) to expand access to health coverage in the San Gabriel Valley. “The ACA New Access Point Grant award to ChapCare will provide critical services to low-income and uninsured patients in our district,” Napolitano said. “Since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act countless individuals in San Gabriel Valley communities have benefitted. We congratulate ChapCare and look forward to continuing to serve the health needs of our constituents as we increase access and affordability for all.” “Locating community health centers in underserved areas supports healthy people and strong communities,” said Margaret B. Martinez, CEO of ChapCare. “The City of El Monte is one of the most impacted cities in Los Angeles County with over 50,000 low-income individuals who are currently not accessing primary health care services.” "The Affordable Care Act provides funding to programs like ChapCare to serve underserved communities like El Monte,” said El Monte Mayor, Andre Quintero. “We are grateful to have Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano because she understands these needs and advocates for funds to improve our city." Napolitano supported ChapCare’s application for the New Access Point competition for funding that was submitted earlier this year. ChapCare has been awarded $1.4 million over two years, allowing it to open a health center in the City of El Monte and provide for 20,000 face-to-face visits with medical professionals. On-site services that will be available at the new El Monte health center include: primary care for people of all ages, health education, laboratory tests, colorectal and breast cancer screenings, behavioral health services, a pharmacy, and retinal scans. An estimated 25 new jobs will be created in the area as a result, and the health center is expected to open by mid-January 2014. The complete list of Health Center New Access Point grants, listed by organization and state, is available at https://www.hrsa.gov/about/news/2013tables/newaccesspoints/. # # #
11.13.2013	(West Covina, CA) On Saturday, November 9, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a successful military academy information session at West Covina Senior Citizen Center to give students, parents, and educators a chance to learn more about educational opportunities in our nation’s military academies. “We thank the city of West Covina for allowing us to use the facility for this year’s Academy Day,” Napolitano said. “It is a wonderful and excellent opportunity. We encourage each of you to challenge yourselves physically, academically, mentally, and morally, and start at an early age in school to build your resumes. We wish the very best of luck to all of you in pursuing your careers. Please contact my office with any questions you may have.” Approximately 75 students spoke with representatives from West Point and the Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Merchant Marine service academies as well as the National Guard. Col. Mark Toy, Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, offered some advice to participants on Saturday. “You must have focus and direction,” said Col. Toy. “Find the right mentor that will help you and develop those relationships. Congresswoman Napolitano is definitely one that does things for people, so these young people are starting out on the right foot. The biggest benefit of attending one of the academies is you are going to come out a leader. 30 people will be looking up to you on Day 1 asking for direction. They produce leaders who will go far beyond their years in service to become leaders for the nation.” Our nation’s military service academies are consistently ranked by U.S. News and World Report as some of the most selective and competitive colleges in the world. Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. Interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in El Monte by Thursday, November 28, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit https://napolitano.house.gov/serving-you/military-academy-nominations) • One or two letters of recommendation • A personal statement indicating why you should be considered • High school and/or college transcripts • Copy of SAT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (626) 350-0150. ###
11.08.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Ron Barber (AZ-02), Paul Tonko (NY-20), and Barbara Lee (CA-13) applauded the Obama administration for issuing final regulations for the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA). “Our continuing fight to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness has taken a critical step forward today,” said Congresswoman Grace Napolitano. “Mental health parity ensures that Americans with mental health and addiction disorders will no longer be discriminated against by health care providers. I thank President Obama and his administration for doing the right thing in establishing long overdue equal access to these services for millions of individuals and their families.” “Men and women suffering from substance abuse and mental health disorders have waited too long to receive the same quality care for their mental health treatment. This is a major step towards finally achieving equality in medical and mental health benefits,” said Congressman Tim Ryan. “The price of not treating all of those in need is too high—as we are painfully finding out. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Addiction, Treatment and Recovery Caucus and Military Mental Health Caucus I am pleased that this final rule has been released and the guidance necessary to fully implement this law is finally available to the millions of Americans afflicted with mental health issues and substance abuse disorders.” “All Americans deserve access to the mental health services they need," said Congressman Ron Barber. “For too long mental illness has not been given the same priority as physical illness. This final rule will ensure millions more get access to mental health care at the same level as other health benefits.” “Today’s announcement brings fresh hope to individuals struggling with mental illness and substance abuse issues all across the country,” said Congressman Paul Tonko. “With these final rules finally in place, insurance companies will no longer be able to stepchild mental health and substance abuse services. Moving forward, I will continue to work with the Administration to ensure that these regulations are enforced consistent with the full spirit of the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act.” “With today's final rule implementation of the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Act, we are one step closer as a nation to ensuring that every American has access to comprehensive substance abuse and mental health treatment,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee. “As a psychiatric social worker, I know how important quality health care is to individuals, families, and communities.” The MHPAEA was signed into law in 2008 and applies to large group health plans that provide mental health and substance use disorder benefits. The law ensures that mental health and substance use disorders are covered equal to other medical illnesses such as, diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, and other physical illnesses. According to the National Institutes of Health, over 57.7 million Americans suffer from a diagnosable mental health disorder. Access to equal mental health services is especially critical for returning Iraq and Afghanistan military service members, especially since over 70% of National Guardsmen and Reservists receive care in the private sector. Mental disorders currently serve as the leading cause of disability in the United States and amount to $193 billion annually in lost earnings. The passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), signed into law in 2010, also strengthens and expands the provisions within the MHPAEA. The ACA ensures that pre-existing conditions will not prevent people from seeking coverage and guarantees parity. Mental health and substance use disorder services are part of ten essential benefits categories included in the ACA. Under this essential benefits rule, it is mandatory that individual and small group health plans comply with these parity regulations. Background: · One out of every five Americans will suffer from some type of mental illness at least once in their lifetime (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Report) · 70% of adolescents with mental health problems do not receive care (Journal of Adolescent Health, volume 38) · The U.S. military loses 25 soldiers to suicide for every soldier lost in combat (New York Times) Final Rule factsheet may be viewed at: https://cms.hhs.gov/CCIIO/Programs-and-Initiatives/Other-Insurance-Protections/mhpaea_factsheet.html If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
10.29.2013	Video of briefing available here: https://youtu.be/qS8DRR0Dsec (Washington, D.C.) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and Tim Ryan (OH-13), co-hosted a mental health briefing in conjunction with the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention to educate members of Congress and their staff on roles they can take to help promote resilience and successful transitions for Military Service Members and Veterans, thereby reducing suicide. “Mental illness knows no boundaries and affects everybody in every segment of our society.” Napolitano said. “We must work together to eliminate stigma for the health and well-being of our brave men and women in uniform. When our veterans return home, these invisible injuries can have a devastating effect on them and their families. We must treat these invisible wounds just as we treat physical wounds. I thank everyone who came today to continue this critical dialogue. Through education of our colleagues, staff, and families, we can save lives by letting those suffering know it is always okay to ask for help.” “As legislators and leaders, we have the responsibility to work hard to find innovative approaches to address our Veterans’ mental health and combat Veteran suicide,” said Rep. Ryan, Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Mental Health Caucus. “Today's panel took a positive step in that direction, but we must remain vigilant in seeing that these men and women who served in our armed forces receive the first class help they deserve.” Speakers at the briefing included Dr. Janet Kemp, RN, PhD, National Mental Health Program Director for Suicide Prevention and Community Engagement at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs; David Litts, OD, Executive Secretary for the Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention; Colonel (Ret.) Don Osterberg, Senior Vice President of Safety and Security at Schneider National, Inc.; John Madigan, Senior Director of Public Policy at the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention; First Sergeant John Williams, Instructor at the Schneider Training Academy at Schneider National, Inc.; and Sandra Mason, Acting Director for Recovery Care Coordination at the Department of Defense. They presented techniques and resources to prevent suicide among active duty military personnel and veterans and showed how individuals can help reduce stigma through self-advocacy and education. “Our American service members and veterans are skilled, talented and resilient,” said David Litts of the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention. “Thankfully, for the vast majority, suicide is not a serious risk. Still, every suicide by a service member or a veteran is a tragedy and we need to spread the word that for those who do suffer from PTSD, depression, and other mental health conditions: There is help. There is hope. There is a future.” “The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention was pleased to partner with the Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention on today’s briefing,” said John Madigan of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. “We thank Congresswoman Napolitano and Congressman Ryan for their leadership and bringing us together. We look forward to continuing to work with partners inside and outside of government to prevent suicide among military personnel, veterans and their families.” While more active duty military and veterans are seeking help, suicide continues to threaten the lives of many service members and veterans. The annual suicide rate among veterans is about 30 for every 100,000 of the population, compared with the civilian rate of 14 per 100,000. Napolitano has long worked to address mental health issues affecting our military and veterans. She helped lead a successful effort two years ago to get letters of condolence sent to the families of soldiers lost to suicide, an honor they were previously denied. She has also helped establish suicide prevention programs in 16 Los Angeles County schools over the past decade, and is the author of the H.R. 628, the Mental Health in School Act.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. ###
10.29.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano called for keeping all options on the table when addressing our nation’s water problems at a House Natural Resources’ Water and Power Subcommittee hearing on hydropower. Napolitano had no objection to the hearing and its emphasis, but she expressed concern that the hearing only looked at one side of the coin, surface water. “The threat to our water supply is real,” Napolitano said in her opening statement. “We have many challenges like climate change, decreased snowpack, increased demand, and the development of alternative water intensive fuels like Oil Shale. Not all of the water needs in the west can or should be met by new dams or bigger dams. New storage is not always the right answer, and the same can be said of water recycling or desalination. What works for one community may not work for others, and we must select the most effective and affordable solution. To know the right solution for the community is to have all the options on the table. Looking at just surface storage does not provide our water managers with the baseline data they need to serve our communities.” The Subcommittee last held a hearing on this issue in February and has yet to address other options, such as groundwater storage, efficiencies, water recycling, and desalination. Napolitano is the Ranking Member on the Water and Power Subcommittee. Her full opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. # # #
10.29.2013	DSC_0462_3.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the popular television actor, Arjay Smith (TNT series, “Perception”) as the newest member of the Mental Health Task Force, a group of prominent figures who volunteer their work to reduce the stigma against mental health and increase the availability of mental health services for young people. "I am honored to be a part of the Mental Health Task Force,” said Smith. “Mental health in America – and across the world – should not be a taboo topic. For too long, the critical topic of mental health has taken a back seat to other major illnesses. This should not be the case. I am proud to share my voice and join Congresswoman Napolitano’s task force whose primary vision is to help those in need." “Our Mental Health Task Force proudly welcomes Arjay Smith, a special young man whose dedication to helping others is uncommon in one so young,” Napolitano said. “His extensive entertainment career provides a critical avenue to help de-stigmatize mental issues in every segment of society, and his awareness of these issues will go a long way in reaching our youngsters to let them know it is always okay to seek help.” In “Perception,” Smith plays a teaching assistant to a neuroscience professor who struggles with hallucinations and paranoid delusions brought on by schizophrenia. His character’s main job is to keep the professor in line and on task. He hopes that his role on the show will help to remove the stigma, so that those experiencing mental illness will get the assistance they need and realize they are able to lead healthy, productive lives. The Mental Health Task Force uses public events and media appearances to raise awareness about mental health related issues, especially those affecting youth. Napolitano is also the sponsor for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. Other Mental Health Task Force members include New York Knick, Metta World Peace; three-time female world boxing champion and mental health advocate, Mia St. John; and Dancing with the Stars professional, Mark Ballas.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
10.23.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act:Mr. Chairman, I too rise in strong support of H.R. 3080. As speakers before have said, I thank the Chairmen and Ranking Members of both sides, especially the Chairmen and Ranking Members’ supporting provisions requested that will help the state of California. Section 131 requiring the Corps to review and report on improving water supply options at Corps dams in arid regions such as California. Section 135 allows the Corps to use federal funds to prevent and manage aquatic invasive species on Corps projects, including quagga mussels, shore crab, and foreign algae. Not only a major California problem, but a problem for many rivers and other dams. They are very costly, and it will allow the Corps to assist our local agencies in combating invasive species. Section 125 requiring the Corps to re-issue regulations regarding levee vegetation and incorporate regional characteristics and levee performance. Some of the water agencies are complaining that the Corps may be a little heavy handed and not looking at good science when requiring the removal of trees and bushes from our levees. It would require the Corps to work with local agencies to solve this problem in a regionally appropriate and scientifically proven way. Sections 106 and 109 provide more flexibility for local agencies to sponsor Corps projects. That means accept funding. Section 201 allows for expanded use of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, and we are asking for an “Aye” vote on this. Thank you. H.R. 3080 was passed by the House today with large bipartisan support by a vote of 417-3. Napolitano is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment. Her full floor statement can be viewed here.
10.17.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the bipartisan agreement to reopen the government and avert the U.S from defaulting on its national debt: “We are glad to finally be able to pay our bills, put our government back to work, and help all those who were unfairly treated as a result of the federal government shutdown. We trust that our colleagues will not make a habit of threatening default as a way of reaching an agreement and put an end to governing in a crisis environment. This is especially critical as both parties come together over the next few months to reach a long-term budget solution that reduces spending but is fair to hardworking Americans.” “We must understand this unnecessary government shutdown should have never happened. It has cost our economy, our country, and our citizens $24 billion, according to S&P, money that could have been used toward debt reduction. We look forward to working with the President on his pledge to pass comprehensive immigration reform soon as well as other issues relating to our economic recovery; such as investing in transportation, water supply, and other critical infrastructure, in order to create jobs and grow our economy.” # # #
10.16.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement: “We in Congress must open the government immediately and avoid further threats by the potential of defaulting on our national debt. Since October 1st, I have voted 15 times to reopen the government, pay our bills, and put people back to work. This unnecessary crisis, which is creating a lot of stress for everybody, is hurting the nation as well as our 32nd District. Already due to the shutdown, cancer patients have not received treatment, foodborne illnesses might have spread, small businesses have not received contracts or loans, and families have seen their budgets shrink. Defaulting on our debt will suspend the delivery of critical government services, such as no social security checks issued, veterans disability compensation not paid, and an increase in mortgage interest and student loan rates.” “Since I entered Congress in 1999, I have voted 80 times to keep our government open, and I will continue to vote to keep our government open while working with our leadership to iron out our disagreements. It is critical that we end the uncertainty surrounding the one- shutdown, and secondly, the debt ceiling in order to restore the confidence of Americans in their government and prevent further harm to those that are impacted the most. I am very hopeful that both parties in Congress and the President will come together to open our government and raise the debt limit soon.” # # #
10.10.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power made the following statement at a hearing on two pieces of drought legislation:Thank you to our witnesses for being here today, even during a government shutdown. I am proud to be a cosponsor of H.R. 3176, legislation sponsored by Ranking Member DeFazio. This bill provides the Bureau of Reclamation with the authority and flexibility to get water to entities and tribes who need it during times of drought. Drought costs the U.S. economy between $6 billion and $8 billion annually, with 2012 drought costs possibly exceeding $35 billion dollars. In 2013, almost 50% of our country is in moderate to severe drought. We will hear more of the effects of the drought in the West from the Western States Water Council witness.We will also hear testimony that the federal government should not help the states during times of drought, that the federal government should not help California, home to the five most productive agricultural counties in the nation and the 8th largest economy, with their water issues. The argument is that California’s problems are not the nation’s problems. It is not that simple. What affects California, affects the nation. This is why we are the United States of America.H.R. 3189, offered by Rep. Tipton, is legislation that seeks to address an issue between the Forest Service and Ski Areas in his region. The Ski Areas are concerned about the Forest Service’s interim directive that requires the transfer of their water rights to the federal government. The Forest Service is concerned about their ability to manage the land if the ski resorts were to sell their rights. The legislation is so broadly written that it could apply to many actions on federal lands, not just to ski resorts.It is the responsibility of this committee to ensure proposed legislation receives the proper vetting. We did not receive agency testimony because of the shutdown. We do not have all the answers to the questions we have asked of the administration, again, because of the shutdown. Yet, this hearing is moving forward and it will be the only public opportunity for stakeholders to weigh in before mark up. We are missing key information without the Administration’s positions on these bills. This is not the best way to do business, nor is it the best way to ensure that the legislation we pass serves the best interests of our taxpayers. The best way we can help our communities with their water challenges is to reopen the federal government. We must focus on bringing government up and back to work so the employees of the U.S. Geological Survey can work and comment.Because of the government shutdown, only 43 of 8,623 USGS employees (less than half of one percent) are at work. We must bring back the 3,311 of the 5,077 Reclamation employees that have been furloughed and are waiting to go back to work. Next year is expected to be a very dry water year and we need them back at their jobs to plan for our water future. It is ironic that it takes the absence of these employees to value their presence. They are essential to this country and to the legislative process, and we need them back at work. As we consider these important pieces of legislation, we must first prioritize reopening the government. We must vote on a clean Continuing Resolution with no additions, open the federal government, and put people back to work. Let us do the work our constituents sent us here to do. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources’ Water and Power Subcommittee. Her full opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. # # #
10.10.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement recognizing World Mental Health Day: “Today marks an important day around the world in our fight to end stigma and promote mental wellness,” Napolitano said. “Mental illness knows no boundaries, and it affects everybody in every segment of our society. On this World Mental Health Day, let us continue to work together to first- eliminate stigma so that those suffering know it is always okay to seek help, and to change attitudes toward mental health. We have a long way to go to ensure it receives the same recognition and appropriate funding as any other major health issue. I am pleased to join in these efforts today and will continue to work with the mental health community to raise priority status for this critical issue." Napolitano has been active in securing mental health parity in health insurance, promoting mental health legislation, and raising the profile of mental health in Congress. She began funding a pilot program to provide mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in schools in her congressional district in 2001. The program has since expanded to 16 schools with three more currently being implemented and serves as a pilot program for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013. It currently has 77 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 22 cosponsors.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
10.01.2013	(Baldwin Park, CA) Today, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) marked October as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, issuing the following statement: “Victims of domestic violence often experience emotional and psychological trauma, which can lead to serious mental health issues. We must do more as a community to prevent domestic violence, but it is also critical that we ensure mental health resources as well as physical treatments are available for those who need them most.”If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
09.30.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the prospect of a federal government shutdown: “I am extremely disappointed that my Republican colleagues are holding hardworking Americans hostage over the law of the land, the Affordable Care Act,” Napolitano said. “A shutdown would be devastating to hundreds of thousands of workers and their families and undermine the already suffering confidence Americans have in their government. It is critical we solve this issue and avert crisis immediately, then we can get back to work on the other critical issues facing our communities, such as job creation, the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, and immigration reform. If there is a shutdown, our District and Washington, DC offices will remain open. My dedicated staff and I will continue working on behalf of the constituents of the 32nd District, but we remain hopeful that we can reach a resolution.”Background on a potential government shutdown and a list of services directly affected can be found here. # # #
09.27.2013	(Baldwin Park, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) hosted a free immigration fair at St. John the Baptist Catholic Church in Baldwin Park to help guide people through the immigration and naturalization process. More than 300 people met with immigration experts and representatives from federal agencies. “America is a nation of immigrants. It is our past, our present and our future. Immigrants have made our country prosperous, the envy of all,” Napolitano said. “If you work hard, play by the rules, and successfully make it through the citizenship process, you can join the long line of Americans who immigrated here and helped make this country great.” Napolitano was unfortunately not able to attend the fair due to ongoing budget negotiations in Washington. The following service organizations provided help and guidance at the fair: · US Citizenship and Immigration Services · 605 Citizenship Project · County of Los Angeles Dept. of Consumer Affairs · Catholic Charities of Los Angeles · Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles · CHIRLA · NALEO Educational Fund · LA Voice · Consulate General of Mexico · Asian Americans Advancing Justice · Mexican American Bar Association # # #
09.19.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) voted against H.R. 3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act, which includes dangerous cuts to the nation’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). The bill ultimately passed the House of Representatives by a narrow vote of 217-210. “Nearly 15,000 households in our district receive SNAP benefits due to high unemployment and a recovering economy,” Napolitano said. “Once again, my Republican colleagues are turning their backs on the most vulnerable in our society: our children, seniors, veterans, and Americans living in areas with high unemployment. We must protect these communities and ensure critical food assistance for those who need it most.” H.R. 3102 would cut SNAP by nearly $40 billion, denying basic food aid to almost 4 million Americans in 2014, roughly the total number of beneficiaries in the state of California. It would also create work requirements for SNAP beneficiaries even if the person lives in a high unemployment area. Instead of working to create jobs, Republicans are pushing legislation that abandons Americans who want to work but cannot find jobs. For more information on California’s 32nd Congressional District, click https://www.census.gov/mycd/. ###
08.28.2013	(El Monte, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) in conjunction with Rio Hondo College and the Gateway Cities, South Bay Cities, and San Gabriel Valley Councils of Governments (COGs) hosted a meet and greet with Union Pacific President & CEO Jack Koraleski to educate the public on local rail issues and how transportation policy is critical to jobs and safety in Los Angeles County. “Union Pacific provides thousands of direct jobs in our community and many more indirect jobs by moving goods to the rest of the country,” Napolitano said. “Local governments and the railroad must continue to work together to solve our mutual concerns to improve transportation and mitigate the burdens on our cities. Thank you President Koraleski for being here today to address our local elected officials and take their questions.” Tri-COG local elected officials asked questions about pending grade separation projects including the construction of underpasses for roads that intersect with Union Pacific rail lines. It was the third meeting Napolitano has hosted with Union Pacific leadership and local officials in the past eight years. At a separate event later in the day Napolitano and Union Pacific were recognized by the Whittier City Council for their continued support of the Whittier Greenway Trail, which involved a more than a decade-long transformation of an abandoned railroad into a 4.5 mile recreational and commuter bikeway and pedestrian path. The event commemorated the greenway which opened in 2009, and celebrated an agreement to a 2.3 mile extension of the trail. “We are here today because of the persistence of Mayor Bob Henderson, the city council, and staff in working for many years to purchase this extension,” Napolitano said. “The trail has been a huge success since it opened, and the residents have urged us to finish the project by extending it another 2.3 miles through the city. I am glad we reached an agreement to move forward.” Napolitano sits on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Her district is home to some of the densest rail and truck traffic in the country, due to its proximity to the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. # # #
08.09.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) in conjunction with the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California hosted the Southern California Water Workshop: Focus on our Future to bring together leaders of industry, government, and academia and discuss how to achieve a sustainable water future for Southern California. “We must ensure that Southern California understands it is our responsibility—all of us—to be proactive when it comes to our water needs,” Napolitano said. “The problem is we generally do not know enough about water, so our purpose must be to educate and inform the public and our elected officials about the need for water legislation and action to take place. We must pass bills that are good for all of California, not just a segment of California.” The workshop was organized in direct response to water challenges facing Southern California and grew out of conversations Napolitano had over the last year in Washington and California. Over 20 speakers and panelists offered insights into how to expand Southern California’s water portfolio, develop a water workforce, and continue to work together. “I want to thank Congresswoman Napolitano for her leadership in putting together this important workshop about the future of water in Southern California,” said Jeff Kightlinger, general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. “Meeting the challenge of assuring the region’s water supply by securing reliable imported supplies, diversifying and developing local water resources and investing in infrastructure will require collaboration across many disciplines including government, industry and academia and we look forward to continuing this dialogue.” Approximately 100 people attended the workshop with the goals of creating a water conversation and setting a different tone in addressing Southern California’s water future. Participants and panelists from the workshop echoed Napolitano’s call to action to continue the water dialogue at all levels of government, particularly the local levels. “I think the responsibility is on each one of us to reach out to our local elected officials.” said Jim Stahl, Vice President of MWH Global. “Should we ask for help from Washington? No doubt about it, but we should really look to educate the leaders in our communities to get their support.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Committee on Natural Resources’ Water and Power Subcommittee and a member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee. # # #
07.24.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) applauded the first step in the adoption of a National Guard Youth Foundation amendment to H.R. 2397, the Defense Appropriations Act of 2014. Napolitano was a cosponsor of the bipartisan amendment offered by Rep. David McKinley (R-WV), which gives an additional $10 million to the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program (NGYCP). “I am proud to join my colleagues in continuing major support for a program that turns around the lives of so many at-risk youth,” Napolitano said. “The programs at Sunburst Academy (Los Alamitos) and Grizzly Academy (San Luis Obispo) graduate 700 students annually and we hope through increased funding to build upon this success in California. I have seen firsthand the transformation that takes place when we give our youngsters every chance to succeed, providing them with life skills and tools. This investment in their lives is worth every penny to our society, community, state, and country.” "I applaud Congresswoman Napolitano’s staunch advocacy for the National Guard’s Youth ChalleNGe program and her recognition of how important it is for the youth of California,” said Maj. Gen. David S. Baldwin, Adjutant General, California National Guard. “This increase in funding will make a real difference, allowing thousands of our youth to acquire a superior education and the life skills they need to realize their dreams and aspirations. I want to personally thank Congresswoman Napolitano for her support of Southern California’s future generations." Youth ChalleNGe is a program run by the National Guard that uses military discipline and mentoring to help at-risk youth complete high school and emerge better able to succeed in the wider world. Napolitano is the Co-chair and founder of the Congressional National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Caucus. # # #
07.24.2013	Video of briefing available here: https://youtu.be/415z0uwNOcg(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) co-hosted a briefing and panel discussion with the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention (Action Alliance) to examine mental health and suicide in America today and to educate Members of Congress and staff on what the organization is doing to save lives. “Mental health is beginning to draw more attention in this country,” Napolitano said. “I thank the Action Alliance for bringing us together and continuing the dialogue that is so critical to all of us. We know mental illness knows no boundaries, so we must continue to raise awareness of the warning signs and symptoms and let those suffering know it is always okay to ask for help.” Napolitano was joined by Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13) and representatives from the Action Alliance. The panelists presented ways to change the national narratives around suicide and suicide prevention to ones that promote hope, connectedness, social support, resilience, treatment and recovery. The Action Alliance was launched in 2010 by Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and Former Department of Defense Secretary Robert Gates to advance the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention (NSSP), which has a goal to save 20,000 lives in five years. “We are trying to change the conversation around suicide in this country,” said Dr. David Litts, Executive Secretary, Action Alliance. “We need to be talking more about employing the solutions and less about describing the problem.” “Everyone has a role to play in advancing the NSSP,” said Katherine Deal, Deputy Secretary, Action Alliance. “It should serve as a guide for policy-makers and other leaders to help improve the health and well-being of our nation and put systems in place that ensure those who struggle with suicidal thoughts and behaviors have access to the services and supports they so profoundly need.” Napolitano has been active in securing mental health parity in health insurance, promoting mental health legislation, and raising the profile of mental health in Congress. She began funding a pilot program to provide mental health and suicide prevention services on-site in schools in her congressional district in 2001. The program has since expanded to 16 schools and serves as a pilot program for H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013. It currently has 72 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 20 cosponsors. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
07.11.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) applauded the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) decision to prevent the delay in billions of dollars’ worth of transportation projects in California. DOT announced that it is providing utility companies with a transition period through December 31, 2013 to comply with Buy America requirements that were recently imposed on utility relocation work related to transportation projects. Napolitano received this welcome news today through a phone conversation with newly confirmed Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx and Federal Highway Administrator Victor Mendez. “Utility companies have never had to work with these requirements, so they do not yet have the knowledge or infrastructure in place to do what it takes to comply,” Napolitano said. “By granting them more time, $5.7 billion in critical transportation projects in the state of California will continue without delay. This will preserve over 100,000 jobs that were in jeopardy. I thank Secretary Foxx and Administrator Mendez for acting quickly and helping to keep our economy moving.” In a letter to then Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood dated June 24, 2013, Napolitano along with seven of her Southern California colleagues requested a transition period, while reiterating their support of Buy America requirements for infrastructure projects. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) issued a memorandum today providing utility companies a reasonable amount of time to take the necessary steps to ensure that their projects comply with Buy America. Napolitano is the Senior California Democratic member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. Background: · Letter to Secretary LaHood regarding utility relocation · Buy America Utility Relocation Challenges in California · FHWA Memorandum issuing extension to comply with Buy America requirements # # #
06.27.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the Senate passage of S. 744, the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act: “We are glad the Senate has worked in a bipartisan manner and taken this critical step toward fixing our broken immigration system,” Napolitano said. “It is now up to our House of Representatives to act responsibly and bring millions out of the shadows. This is what the voters have indicated they want in poll after poll; it is time to get it done. Contact your representatives to request the passage of true comprehensive reform that includes an earned path to citizenship and keeps our families together.” Napolitano was joined by her colleagues of the Tri-Caucus (Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), and Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC)) at a press conference this afternoon in advance of the Senate vote, to urge their House colleagues to put politics aside and support real comprehensive immigration reform. S. 744 passed with bipartisan support by a vote of 68 to 32 and now moves to the House for consideration. # # #
06.06.2013	(Washington, D.C.) On Saturday, June 1, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) along with Rep. Robert E. Andrews (NJ-01) hosted two public forums: one at the California National Guard Armory in Azusa to allow Veterans to meet one-on-one with Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) representatives to receive updates on pending medical and disability claims and help expedite the process, and a second at City of Hope National Medical Center in Duarte to inform and educate physicians and medical service providers of the benefits of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Eliminating the claims backlog must be our top priority in addressing the needs of our heroes who have come home from the battlefield,” Napolitano said. “Our veterans and their families have sacrificed so much for our communities and for our nation, and it is critical that we ensure timely access to the benefits they have earned.” “I am encouraged that Secretary Shineski has recently announced that the VA will implement a new expedited-claims process because we have constituents who have bravely served our country in need of benefits,” said Andrews. “Far too many veterans cannot afford to wait for the logjam to pass before receiving their hard earned benefits, so I am joining Congresswoman Napolitano to ensure that these claims are handled expeditiously and appropriately.” Napolitano and Andrews toured the Armory, welcomed Veterans, and greeted National Guard troops who were there for training. Participants also heard from Shelia Jackson, Interim Director of the VA Los Angeles Regional Office; Isabela Duff, Director of the Long Beach VA Hospital, and representatives from the VFW, American Legion, American GI Forum, and the Vet Hunters Project. More than 150 Veterans from the 32nd District and surrounding area were registered at the event, seen by the VA Mobile Clinic for physical exams and psychiatric evaluations, and updated on their pending claims. Azusa Mayor, Joseph Rocha, brought together dozens of volunteers from the community including 30 students from Azusa High School, to help make the forum a great success. Later that day, Napolitano and Andrews held a roundtable discussion on the ACA with physicians and service providers at City of Hope in Azusa. Discussion participants were 35 members of Napolitano’s 32nd Congressional District Mental Health Consortium, a group of local mental health professionals who advise her on mental health issues and policy. Andrews, an original author of the ACA, which was signed into law in March 2011, answered questions relating to the continued implementation of the landmark law. “Our district is very grateful to Congressman Andrews for sharing his time and expertise with us today," Napolitano said at the roundtable. “Many of the provisions of health care reform have already proven to be critical for working families across my district. More children are now able to find coverage, and outlawing the worst industry practices has allowed patients to count on their healthcare being there when they need it most. I thank all of the members of the Consortium here today and encourage them to continue to ask questions, get educated, and inform others.” “I was honored to join the members of the Mental Health Consortium for the extremely insightful discussion on the future of our nation’s health care system,” said Congressman Andrews. “As the new health reform law continues to be implemented, it is important to continue the dialogue about our nation’s pressing need to rein in health care costs and improve our standards of care. The reforms that became law just a couple years ago are about ensuring that every American has access to affordable and quality health care, and it is discussions like this one that will allow us to build off of the many accomplishments in this law and make America’s health care system even better.” In the ensuing years, these provisions of the ACA will take effect: • Effective January 1, 2014: Americans who earn less than 133% of the poverty level (approximately $14,000 for an individual and $29,000 for a family of four) will be eligible to enroll in Medicaid • Effective January 1, 2014: If your employer doesn’t offer insurance, you will be able to buy it directly in an Affordable Insurance Exchange • Effective January 1, 2015: Physician payments will be tied directly to the quality care they provide # # #
05.23.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, at a hearing for the Subcommittee on Water and Power, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano called for support for her bill, H.R. 745, the Reauthorization of the Water Desalination Act of 1996, which would fund federal research and development projects into desalination, the conversion of seawater into freshwater. “Our demands exceed our supply, and as stewards of this resource, we must balance all the needs of the system,” Napolitano said in her opening statement. “To meet those needs, water recycling, conservation, efficiencies, groundwater management, storage where appropriate, and desalination are key to developing local water supplies. We must continue to invest in desalination to drive down costs and be a powerful engine for economic growth. I urge my colleagues to support these critical programs.” H.R. 745 would allocate $3 million a year through 2018. Since 1996, projects or studies have been funded in more than half of the 50 states, with 38 projects being funded in California alone. The program was reauthorized in December 2011 and will expire on September 30, 2013 if Congress does not act. Napolitano touted the programs’ discoveries, which include determining how to dispose of saline wastewater, establishing uniform industry standards for common desalination components, funding “brackish” water projects to desalinate groundwater, discovering how to withdraw seawater from below the seafloor to minimize environmental damage, and developing reverse osmosis membrane pretreatment to improve desalination. Napolitano’s bill is supported by the Multi-State Salinity Coalition, Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, WateReuse Association, and the National Water Resources Association. A link to all of the organizations supporting H.R. 745 can be found here. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the Water and Power Subcommittee. Her opening statement from today’s hearing can be viewed here. # # #
05.23.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) held a legislative briefing to address the alarming rates of suicide among youth and call for increased mental health services. This briefing marked the final event of May Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when advocates and activists across the country draw attention to mental health issues. “We must all work together to eliminate stigma so that those suffering know it is always okay to seek help,” Napolitano said. “Mental health knows no boundaries, and it affects everybody in every segment of society. We must continue the dialogue and train teachers, family members, students, and administrators to identify the warning signs and symptoms to catch issues early on. I thank all of the panelists for their dedication to mental health and look forward to continuing to working with them on this critical issue.” Panelists at the briefing included Dr. Olga Acosta Price, Director of Center for Health and Health Care in Schools at George Washington University (GWU) School of Public Health and Health Services; Amanda Uhme, student and co-president of Active Minds at GWU; Dr. Julie Goldstein Grumet, Director of Prevention and Practice at the Suicide Prevention Resource Center; Julie Kozminski, MPH student at GWU & Public Policy Fellow at Mental Health America; Paramjit T. Joshi, M.D., Endowed Professor and Chair of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Children’s National Medical Center and Professor of Psychiatry, Behavioral Sciences, and Pediatrics at GWU. “If we hope to address the troubling trends in mental health, schools must be invited to play a meaningful role in any system of care where young people are the focus,” said Dr. Acosta Price. “Evidence indicates that school-based interventions are a part of effective place-based solutions for any health condition that impacts children and adolescents.” “There are hundreds of reasons not to get help,” said Uhme. “They can be social, economic, financial, personal, or cultural. These reasons creature barriers to service. Our job has to be lowering these barriers little by little until they disappear altogether and allow students to get help without struggle.” “A comprehensive public health approach to suicide prevention is critical for reducing youth suicide in the US,” said Dr. Goldstein Grumet. “The revised National Strategy for Suicide Prevention, which was released by the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention and the US Surgeon General in 2012, is grounded in this approach and emphasizes that everyone – government, business, schools, health care industry, communities and individuals – has a role in helping to prevent suicide.” “Mental health is a birth right for all and mental illness is treatable,” said Dr. Joshi. “Early intervention and improved access to quality treatment can help prevent the tragic and costly consequences of unidentified and untreated mental illness in youth by taking timely action. We all need to think bigger, think differently and markedly shift the paradigm about mental and behavioral health.” Suicide is currently the third leading cause of death for young adults and adolescents. Napolitano has helped establish suicide prevention programs in more than a dozen L.A. County schools over the last ten years (Center for Disease Control and Prevention).H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013, introduced by Napolitano, would create a competitive grant program which would allow the receiving school districts to hire mental health professionals for their district. By having qualified professionals working on-site in schools, they will be better able to provide prevention and early intervention services for students. It currently has 68 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 18 cosponsors.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act. ###
05.16.2013	Video of briefing available here: bit.ly/10Q9PmG (Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, as part of May Mental Health Awareness Month, the Congressional Military Mental Health Caucus, held a legislative briefing to educate members of Congress and their staff on how the U.S. military and the Department of Veterans Affairs are addressing mental health in the military. Caucus Co-Chairs, Reps. Jeff Miller (FL-1) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) co-hosted the briefing along with Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (PA-5). “We must all continue to work together to eliminate stigma, so that members of our military seek the mental health treatment they need and deserve,” Napolitano said. “The invisible wounds of war too often go unnoticed until it is too late, and we must do everything we can to ensure the health and safety of our servicemen and women and their families. I thank my colleagues and our panelists for helping to raise awareness for this serious issue.” “So many Americans serving in our Armed Forces return from the battlefield dealing with a variety of mental health conditions, including Traumatic Brain Injuries and Post-Traumatic Stress,” said Rep. Thompson. “These brave men and women deserve our support, which means making every effort to find new and innovative ways to help them achieve physical health, resiliency, and mental wellbeing.” Speakers at the briefing included Dr. Sonja V. Batten, Ph.D., Deputy Chief Consultant for Specialty Mental Health in the Veterans Affairs Central Office; U.S. Marine Corps Major General (ret.) Thomas S. Jones; and Frank C. DiGiovanni, Director of Training Readiness and Strategy in the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense. They presented approaches to preventing stress-related mental health disorders and promoted the treatment of these and other disorders experienced by combat veterans.Of the crises facing American troops today, suicide ranks among the most emotionally wrenching — and baffling. The U.S. Army set another record last year with 324 suicides, 183 of whom were on active duty. Napolitano has long worked to address mental health issues affecting our military and veterans. She helped lead a successful effort two years ago to get letters of condolence sent to the families of soldiers lost to suicide, an honor they were previously denied. She has also helped establish suicide prevention programs in 15 Los Angeles County schools over the past decade, and is the author of the H.R. 628, the Mental Health in School Act.If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline. For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. ###
05.14.2013	IMG_7093EDIT.jpg Photo: Front row, left to right: Elizabeth Cortez, Michelle Ann Gearhart-Pash, Maria M. Huante, Tawni Patrick, GN, Arlene Ramirez, Elizabeth Ann Ramirez, Brenda Reuter, Norma Macias-El Monte Mayor Pro Tem & Event Emcee. Back row, left to right: Lillian Rey, Vicki Scheliga, Jeanine Scott, Silvia Solorio, Mellanie Villareal, Ester Ybarra-Bryant, Ellen Young. Not pictured: Margie Green (El Monte, CA) On Friday, May 10, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored 15 women who had been nominated by volunteer organizations for exemplary service at the 2013 “Women of the Year” ceremony at the Grace T. Black Auditorium in El Monte. “These remarkable women work tirelessly to improve our community through their volunteering,” Napolitano said. “They rarely receive the praise they deserve for the endless hours they put in behind the scenes, but we all feel the impact of their selfless efforts. This award is one way to express our deepest gratitude and say thank you to these outstanding women.” “I was so pleased and excited to be nominated for such a great honor,” said Margie Green from San Dimas. “I can’t say enough about what it means to be honored for doing something that you love to do and be appreciated for the time you put in.” “I believe that volunteering is the key to fixing everything that is wrong in the world,” said Mellanie Villareal of the Vet Hunters Project. “If everybody just contributes and does a little bit and gives back some of their time, we can all come together and move mountains.” Each woman’s name was submitted by their volunteer organization or community group which felt their contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked the women personally. “I was so happy not only to receive the award, but to be presented this award by Congresswoman Grace Napolitano.” said Lilian Rey of the City of El Monte. “To give your time and help somebody who needs it is such heartwarming work, and that is why I volunteer.”The 2013 Women of the Year: Elizabeth Cortez, City of Baldwin Park – Julia McNeil Senior Center – Baldwin Park Michelle Gearhart-Pash, City of Hope – Duarte Margie Green, San Dimas Chamber of Commerce – San Dimas Maria Huante, San Gabriel Mountains Forever – El Monte Tawni Patrick, Covina Lion’s Breakfast Club – Covina Jasmin Arlene Ramirez, Alta Med Health Services Corporation – El Monte Elizabeth Ann Ramirez, City of Azusa – Azusa Brenda Reuter, Irwindale Chamber of Commerce – Irwindale Lilian Rey, City of El Monte – El Monte Vicki Scheliga, West Covina Lion’s Club – West Covina Jeanine Scott, Boys and Girls Club of the Foothills – Monrovia Silvia Solorio, Foothill Family Services – El Monte Mellanie Villarreal, The Vet Hunters Project – El Monte Ester Ybarra-Bryant, Didi Hirsch Mental Health Services – West Covina Ellen Young, City of Glendora – La Fetra Center – Glendora ###
05.08.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Ron Barber (AZ-02), and Lynn Jenkins (KS-02) hosted a Mental Health First Aid training for Members of Congress and their staff as part of May Mental Health Awareness Month. Mental Health First Aid is a groundbreaking public education program that helps identify, understand, and respond to signs of mental illnesses and substance use disorders. “We must continue reducing the stigma through the education of our colleagues, staff, and families,” Napolitano said. “Attitudes toward mental health are changing, but we still have a long way to go to ensure it receives the same recognition and appropriate funding as any other health issue. Mental health is critical for our economy, the welfare of our soldiers and family members, and the future of our country.” “Mental Health First Aid training has been an important way of helping people identify, understand and respond to signs of mental illnesses,” said Barber. “This training has been successful in Tucson and I look forward to giving my colleagues a small preview of how effective it can be.” “Early-detection training programs, like Mental Health First Aid training, are critical to removing the stigma of mental health treatment, ensuring all families have access to mental health resources, and preventing individuals from harming themselves or others,” said Jenkins. “We have folks in Kansas doing great work on mental health issues, and it is important that we share these educational tools with Members of Congress and their staff so they can take them back to their districts.” Today’s training was a preview to the training included in Barber’s legislation, H.R. 274, the Mental Health First Aid Act, of which Napolitano and Jenkins are cosponsors. Bryan Gibb, Director of Public Education at the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare, explained how to recognize the most common mental health issues, including anxiety, depression, and psychosis, and how to direct those that need help to care if those issues are detected. The purpose of the training was to provide educational resource tools to help create a better understanding and awareness of mental health. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. ###
05.07.2013	Final MMHM 2013 Cong Member Photo.jpg Video of briefing available here: https://youtu.be/tc7dcD0EJ0A (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), in cooperation with mental health advocates and organizations, held a legislative briefing for Members of Congress and their staff in recognition of National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day. “Thank you all for being here today on behalf of the most precious resource we have, our children,” Napolitano said. “We have been trying for years to de-stigmatize the issue of mental illness, and we must continue to let our youngsters know that it is always okay to seek help. I thank my colleagues for joining me in preventive efforts for the future of our children and elevating mental health to achieve parity with physical health.” Panelists at the briefing included Kana Enomoto, Principal Deputy Administrator, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA); Dylan Zimdahl, Youth, Savannah, GA; Anthony Mannarino, Director of the Center for Traumatic Stress in Children and Adolescents at Allegheny Hospital in Pittsburgh, PA; and Dr. JoAnne M. Malloy, Clinical Assistant Professor, Institute of Disability, University of New Hampshire. Following the briefing, Napolitano was joined by several of her Congressional colleagues and mental health advocates wearing green ribbons to show support for May as National Mental Health Awareness Month (Photos above). Almost 8.4 million U.S. children ages 9 to 17, or one out of five children and adolescents, suffer from some form of mental, emotional, or behavioral challenges. One-half of all mental illnesses begin by age 14, but only 1 in 5 children will have access to treatment or professional help. Studies have shown that children with mental disorders experience problems in schools, with peers, and at home. Providing early mental health treatment is critical to preventing further emotional and behavioral disorders (SAMHSA report). Suicide is currently the third leading cause of death for young adults and adolescents. Napolitano has helped establish suicide prevention programs in more than a dozen L.A. County schools over the last ten years (Center for Disease Control and Prevention). H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2013, introduced by Napolitano, would create a competitive grant program which would allow the receiving school districts to hire mental health professionals for their district. By having qualified professionals working on-site in schools, they will be better able to provide prevention and early intervention services for students. It currently has 67 cosponsors in the House and the support of mental health organizations from across the country. Senator Al Franken (D-MN.) has introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195), which currently has 18 cosponsors. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). For the Congressional May Mental Health Awareness Month calendar, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/may-mental-health-awareness-month. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act. ###
04.17.2013	[Spanish Version Below] (Washington D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the U.S. Senate’s introduction of a new comprehensive immigration bill: “I applaud our colleagues in the Senate for taking this critical step forward and doing what is right. This has been long time coming, but we are not finished yet. We have been fighting for immigrants who work hard, pay taxes, and contribute to our communities, and now we have a great opportunity to reform our broken immigration system that will protect our families, keep our borders safe and secure, and help our economy grow. We must continue to work together with the Senate and with the House to pass true, comprehensive immigration reform this year.” Today, Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY), John McCain (R-AZ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), and Michael Bennet (D-CO) introduced the landmark bipartisan legislation. The comprehensive bill would offer a path to legalization and possible citizenship to over 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the U.S.; reduce the current backlog; reunite families; and protect all workers. The bipartisan group of Senators will hold a series of public hearings across multiple Senate Committees to debate and review the legislation. “We look forward to moving in the same path when a bill arrives in the House of Representatives to eventual Presidential signature,” Napolitano said. Summary of immigration bill provisions: Earned path to citizenship: Offers a responsible path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. Employment verification: Implements an employment verification system to avoid identity fraud and obligates employers to verify the legal status of their employees. Border Control: Secures the border to help prevent future border crossings. Future immigration and families: Creates a logical future approach to legal immigration and facilitates future economic needs; recognizes the value of keeping strong families together. (Washington D.C.) La Congresista Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) dio la siguiente declaración hoy sobre el anuncio de la nueva reforma migratoria presentada por el Senado: “Aplaudo a nuestros colegas en el Senado por dar este paso fundamental y hacer lo que es correcto. Esto se ha tardado mucho, pero aún no hemos terminado. Hemos estado luchando por los inmigrantes que trabajan duro, pagan impuestos, y contribuyen a nuestras comunidades y ahora tenemos una gran oportunidad de restablecer nuestro sistema migratorio que proteja nuestras familias inmigrantes, mantenga nuestras fronteras seguras, y ayude al crecimiento de nuestra economía. Tenemos que seguir unidos con el Senado y con el Congreso para aprobar verdadera reforma migratoria comprensiva sin falta este año.” Senadores Charles Schumer (D-NY), John McCain (R-AZ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), y Michael Bennet (D-CO) presentaron la legislación bipartidista hoy. El proyecto de ley ofrecería un camino a legalización y después posible ciudadanía a más de 11 millones de inmigrantes indocumentados viviendo en los Estados Unidos; reunión de familias, y protección a todos los trabajadores. El grupo bipartidista de senadores llevará a cabo una serie de juntas públicas en varios comités para discutir y revisar la legislación. “Esperamos seguir en los mismos pasos cuando un proyecto de ley llegue a la Cámara de Representantes y eventualmente para la firma presidencial," dijo Napolitano. Detalles del proyecto de inmigración: Camino a la ciudadanía: Un camino que finalice responsablemente hacia la ciudadanía para los indocumentados que están viviendo en los EE.UU. Verificación de empleo: Establecimiento de un sistema de verificación que evita el robo de identidad de ciudadanos y obliga que empresas verifiquen el estatus legal de sus empleados. La seguridad fronteriza: Asegura la seguridad fronteriza para prevenir y evitar cruces ilegales en la frontera. El futuro de inmigración y familias: Ofrece un enfoque lógico para la futura inmigración legal y facilita las futuras necesidades económicas, y reconoce el valor y la fuerza de mantener nuestras familias unidas. # # #
04.12.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Representatives Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35) released the following statements on the recent passing of community leader and activist, Ms. Helen L. Doherty: “Helen was a driving force in gaining recognition for the Gabrieleno tribe, and her efforts will not soon be forgotten,” Napolitano said. “The labor and Native American communities have lost a dear friend and will be deeply affected by her passing.” “The Native American community in California has lost an unparalleled leader who was constantly engaged in the defense of their heritage and quality of life,” said Negrete McLeod. “Helen was also an educator and a good friend of mine for many years. Throughout my legislative career, Helen’s counsel and wisdom have been invaluable to me. She will be greatly missed.” Helen will be remembered for being a powerful advocate for the Native American community in California. She would often assist with workshops on tribal lands to help Native Americans develop skills to improve their quality of life. Helen also worked to ensure that California's textbooks reflect the true history of native people, among other examples of her work with the Native American community. Helen’s advocacy for children of all ages gained the support of many teachers, students and parents. Her work with after-school programs was instrumental in helping students academically over the many years she taught high school. ###
04.10.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) voted in favor of H.R. 678, the Bureau of Reclamation Small Conduit Hydropower Development and Rural Jobs Act. Napolitano supported final passage of the bill after an amendment was adopted altering the controversial provision that would have waived the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for these projects. The bill ultimately passed by a vote of 416-7. “While H.R. 678 is far from perfect, our efforts to reach a bipartisan solution made strides today as we agreed to strike the unnecessary NEPA waiver in the bill,” Napolitano said. “I am pleased that my Republican colleagues agree that NEPA is not the problem and we can continue to develop more hydropower at existing facilities. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to further improve the language of this bill and enacting it into law.” H.R. 678 authorizes the Bureau of Reclamation, the largest wholesale water supplier in the nation, to allow for the development of small conduit hydropower projects of 5 megawatts or less on Reclamation facilities. The bill also clarifies that the Bureau of Reclamation is the agency with jurisdiction over these projects. Napolitano offered her own amendment, which would have struck the NEPA waiver from H.R. 678 and increased the limitation from 5 megawatts to 15 megawatts, but it was not adopted. Napolitano is the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee on the House Natural Resources Committee. ###
03.21.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against the Republican budget plan for fiscal year 2014, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives, and released the following statement: “Our budget should be a reflection of our values and priorities, but my Republican colleagues continue to value protecting the highest income earners while cutting services to the poorest of the poor. This unbalanced approach will lead to more unemployment due to the unwillingness on the other side of the aisle to raise taxes on the wealthiest corporations and millionaires. We must reduce spending, but forcing the middle class to bear the burden is not the solution. “This budget would be especially painful for seniors, students, veterans, and the disenfranchised. It replaces Medicare with a voucher program that shifts health care costs to seniors. It also undermines Medicaid, which allows low-income seniors to stay in nursing homes and provides life-saving health care for our very poorest families. We should be investing in education and not slashing Pell Grants, which would make it more difficult for millions of students to attend college. The GOP budget also cuts support for homeless veterans, who have already made tremendous sacrifices for our country. “Instead of strengthening the middle class, this budget includes tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, keeps billions of dollars in subsidies in place for oil companies, and protects corporate tax breaks for U.S. companies that move jobs overseas. It is wrong to ask the most vulnerable among us to make sacrifices while the most prosperous do not pay their fair share.” # # #
02.15.2013	DSC_0771.jpg (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) and Los Angeles Laker Metta World Peace, joined with other Members of Congress on Capitol Hill to call for the passage of H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act, and an open dialogue on mental health. “I am a firm believer that the Mental Health in Schools Act will have a positive and lasting impact on our youth. That's why I'm here today,” World Peace said. “I encourage anyone struggling or hurting to not be afraid to seek help, and we all must do better to increase mental health awareness in our cities, communities, and across the nation.” The Mental Health in Schools Act, which Napolitano introduced in the previous three Congresses, would create a competitive grant program that would allow the receiving school districts to hire mental health professionals for their district. By having qualified professionals working on-site in schools, they will be better able to provide prevention and early intervention services for students. “Metta World Peace continues to be a steadfast champion for mental health and speaks to the issues that others are afraid to talk about,” Napolitano said. “Personally, he knows that mental wellness is just as important as physical wellness and that everyone must work together to eliminate stigma. I and the mental health community applaud him for his courage in helping to reduce stigma by showing it is okay to seek help, and we will be continuing to work with him to ensure the best possible future for our youngsters.” World Peace is in Washington during the NBA All-Star Break to meet with Republicans, Democrats, and professionals from mental health organizations to elevate the issue and de-stigmatize mental health. Representatives Mike Thompson (CA-5), Ron Barber (AZ-2), and Bobby Scott (VA-3) joined Napolitano in a meeting with World Peace to discuss his advocacy and provide recommendations on how he can increase public awareness on mental health. “Many thanks to Metta World Peace for taking time to share his story with others,” said Thompson. “A big part of eliminating the stigma surrounding mental health is the willingness to talk about it. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and others to close the holes in our mental health system and make sure people get the care they need.” “Today I join Congresswoman Napolitano to call on Congress to pass the H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act,” said Barber. “The bill allows much-needed prevention and early intervention by bringing mental health professionals to the students, in their schools. In addition to H.R. 628, I have introduced H.R. 274, the Mental Health First Aid Act with bipartisan support, which will provide training to help people identify and respond to signs of mental illness. I call on my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to step forward and pass these important measures as soon as possible to help protect our communities and save lives.” “Growing up in a neighborhood with drugs and gun violence, Metta World Peace told us that his choice to see a psychologist was one of the factors that put him on a path to success in his life rather than a path to crime and prison,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “His personal story shows us the significant difference mental health services can make.” Napolitano reached out to Metta World Peace in 2010 after his on-court speech thanking his psychologist after winning the NBA championship, to assist and educate local school children about mental health. He has since visited several schools with Napolitano to talk about mental health, including trips to Eastmont Intermediate School in Montebello and Los Alisos Middle School in Norwalk, and has traveled to Washington, D.C. twice to help Napolitano promote the Mental Health in Schools Act. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Mental Health in Schools Act website at: https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act # # #
02.15.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano introduced H.R. 745, the Reauthorization of the Water Desalination Act of 1996, which would fund federal research and development projects into desalination, the conversion of seawater into freshwater. “Desalination is critical for the future of a reliable, sustainable water supply, especially for our western states,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to provide federal funding to enhance technologies for producing new water from the ocean in order to combat drought, population growth, and climate change. Increasing our desalination efforts will drive down costs and be a powerful engine for economic growth, and I urge my colleagues to support these critical programs.” H.R. 745 would allocate $3 million a year through 2018. Since 1996, projects or studies have been funded in more than half of the 50 states, with 38 projects being funded in California alone. The program was reauthorized in December 2011 and will expire on September 30, 2013 if Congress does not act. The programs’ discoveries include determining how to dispose of saline wastewater, establishing uniform industry standards for common desalination components, funding “brackish” water projects to desalinate groundwater, discovering how to withdraw seawater from below the seafloor to minimize environmental damage, and developing reverse osmosis membrane pretreatment to improve desalination. Napolitano is the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee on the House Natural Resources Committee. # # #
02.13.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, along with 45 original cosponsors, introduced H.R. 628, the Mental Health in Schools Act, to fund critical and much needed on-site school-based mental health services for youth. “Mental wellness is just as important as physical wellness, and we must reduce stigma to ensure the quality of life of our youngsters, our families, our communities, and our returning service members,” Napolitano said. “It is okay to seek help. We must secure and protect the federal funding needed to carry out affordable mental health services and programs for all Americans. Government recognition for the need of mental health services is long overdue.” Senator Al Franken (D-Minn.) introduced the Senate version of the bill (S.195) on January 31, 2013, with nine original cosponsors. “Addressing the mental and emotional needs of our kids is just as important as keeping them safe from physical injury and illness," said Sen. Franken. "Healthy kids grow into healthy adults, and if we're able to catch and address mental health issues early, we can help kids become productive members of society. The Mental Health in Schools Act will help make sure that kids in need get access to the mental health treatment they deserve.” The Mental Health in Schools Act, which Napolitano introduced in the previous three Congresses, would create a competitive grant program which would allow the receiving school districts to hire mental health professionals for their district. By having qualified professionals working on-site in schools, they will be better able to provide prevention and early intervention services for students. “I am pleased to join Senator Franken in moving forward on mental health,” Napolitano said. “We must all continue to educate the students, parents, administrators, and media to de-stigmatize the issue of mental illness and let those silently hurting know that it is always okay to ask for help.” If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). Mental Health in Schools Act website at: https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act # # #
02.12.2013	(Washington, D.C.) Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “I applaud President Obama for continuing to lead the way forward. Partnering with private industries in everything we do is critical for our economic recovery, and investing in transportation, water supply, and other critical infrastructure is the best way to create jobs and put people back to work. “We must elevate mental health to achieve parity with physical health to detect and prevent mental illness early on and let our loved ones know that it is always okay to ask for help. Mental health continues to be critical for our economy, the welfare of our servicemembers and family members, and the future of our country. “We are looking forward to passing comprehensive immigration reform, which includes an earned path to citizenship that brings millions out of the shadows of society, grows our economy, and keeps our families together." # # #
02.07.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, House Democratic Leaders and Gun Violence Prevention Task Force Chairman Mike Thompson (CA-5), held a press conference announcing a comprehensive set of policy proposals to make our schools, streets and communities safer. As a vice chair of the Task Force, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), helped draft the mental health provisions. “Thank you to Chairman Thompson and my colleagues on the Task Force for recognizing that mental health is a critical part of the conversation on gun violence prevention and for understanding how it affects our families, communities, and businesses,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to de-stigmatize the issue of mental illness and elevate mental health to achieve parity with physical health. Americans have demanded that action be taken, and these principles are a critical first step in protecting the well-being of all.” Summary of mental health provisions: · Ensure mental health parity. · Fully address the issue of stigma related to mental illness. · Fund and prioritize evidence-based programs and practices for School Based Mental Health Programs. · Fund mental health programs related to military service members, veterans, and minority communities. · Expand the mental health care network to institutional and community based mental health treatments. · Fund and deploy effective jail diversion programs to better address and identify appropriate mental health and rehabilitation services for federal and state inmates with diagnosable mental health problems. · Ensure that successful programs, like mental health first aid training, are made available for students, parents, educators, faculty and staff, law enforcement, emergency response personnel, community faith leaders, and others who interact with at-risk populations. · Ensure families, schools, and communities receive resources and training to put in place evidence-based emergency protocols and address crisis situations as soon as they develop. · Increase the mental health workforce, especially for those professionals who work with children, youth, military, veterans, and minority communities. · Provide adequate pay and increase the number of mental health professionals who are educated, trained, and licensed to work with the underserved. · Conduct assessments on mental health information sharing and program funding to evaluate programs’ effectiveness over time. · Increase media outreach and partnerships while addressing the issue of mental health to ensure the public is properly informed; eliminating the stigma. In 2001, Napolitano secured funding to provide on-site mental health services for schools within her Congressional District, a program that has now expanded to 15 other area schools. She authored the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would implement these services on a national level, and plans to reintroduce the legislation next week. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). The full recommendations of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force can be viewed here. # # #
01.24.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was pleased to announce her committee assignments for the 113th Congress. Napolitano was appointed to the Natural Resources Committee, which covers energy production, mineral lands and mining, fisheries and wildlife, water management, public lands, oceans, and Native American issues. Napolitano is the highest ranking female and Hispanic member of the full Committee. She is also the most senior California member of the Committee. For the second consecutive term, Napolitano was also selected to be Ranking Member (top Democrat) on the Subcommittee on Water and Power, which she chaired in the 110th and 111th Congresses. The Subcommittee has jurisdiction over water resources, irrigation projects, hydroelectric power, and interstate water issues. Napolitano was also appointed to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which covers surface transportation, freight and passenger rail, aviation, inland waterways, international maritime commerce, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water projects, and the federal clean water program. She is the most senior California Democratic member as well as the most senior Hispanic member of the Committee. Napolitano retains all of the subcommittee assignments she has held for the past six years: Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, and the Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment. Napolitano is the only member of Congress who serves on the two subcommittees that oversee all the water programs of the federal government. “I am determined to increase federal commitments to develop new water supplies through water recycling, conservation, and sustainability efforts,” Napolitano said. “Working to ensure a quicker, safer, and cheaper daily commute for our 32nd District residents is critical. I also look forward to supporting increased rail safety through the installation of the positive train control system and strengthening Army Corps and EPA water projects.” # # #
01.23.2013	DSC_0682 edit.jpg (Washington, DC) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), a vice-chair of the House Democratic Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, co-hosted a briefing and panel discussion examining the status of mental health in America today. “I want to thank President Obama and Vice President Biden for allowing us to bring an issue that is very near and dear to my heart to the forefront,” Napolitano said. “I also thank my colleague Mike Thompson for including the mental health perspective as part of the dialogue on gun violence, as well as all Task Force Members who are here today. This is an issue that affects us all and for that reason, it is critical that everyone; elected officials, mental health professionals, and the general public, be part of the conversation and become properly informed and educated about mental health.” Napolitano was joined by chair of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-5) and other Members of the Task Force including Representatives Ron Barber (AZ-2), Bobby Scott (VA-3), and Ed Perlmutter (CO-7), Minnesota Senator Al Franken, as well as mental health experts. The panelists presented unique insights to the status of our current mental health system and offered ways in which to improve it. “The mental health component of our task force is extremely important, and it is necessary that it is part of our comprehensive approach,” said Rep. Thompson. “We are not just going to throw some money at it. We have to be smart, figure out what works, and proceed in that direction. That is what we will do.” “I want to thank Congresswoman Napolitano for holding this important and informative briefing,” said Rep. Barber. “We know that to address gun-related violence, we also must address the need to identify and treat people with mental illness – keeping in mind that these individuals are far more likely to be the victims of violence than the perpetrators. I appreciate Congresswoman Napolitano’s leadership and support of my Mental Health First Aid Act, which is one step in preventing gun violence by providing training to help people identify and respond to signs of mental illness.” “Congresswoman Napolitano organized an informative session on the importance of a comprehensive mental health component in our response to the Newtown, Connecticut tragedy,” said Rep. Scott. “Such a comprehensive approach must assure affordable mental health services for all, with a focus on prevention and early intervention for children as well as adults.” Two important themes of the panel discussion were the urgent need for mental health parity and the elimination of the harmful stigma that surrounds the issue of mental illness. “Mental health maintenance is no different than maintaining your physical health,” said Adrian Veseth-Nelson, President and co-founder of Invisible Wound and retired Army Captain. “It is absolutely critical that we view it in the same manner. There is nothing wrong with going to the doctor because you have a cold. Likewise, there is nothing wrong with getting help for mental health issues.” “Behavioral health, mental illness, and substance abuse issues are not social problems,” said Pamela Hyde, Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). "They are public health problems, and they should be tackled and solved in that way.” “We must rethink how we talk about mental health disorders,” said Dr. Thomas Insel, Director of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH). “Science trumps stigma.” “The most hopeful sign I’ve seen is that mental health finally sits at the table,” said Dr. Wayne Lindstrom, Director of Mental Health America (MHA). “If we invest early in mental health, we can see a sizable return on that investment.” “This is no longer an issue impacting only big urban areas and traditional resettlement states,” said Dr. Olga Acosta Price, Director of Prevention/Intervention School Based Mental Health Services. “This is a national issue, and our social, emotional, and mental health programs must reflect this reality.” “We need to train all teachers, family members, students, and administrators to identify the warning signs and symptoms to catch issues early on,” said Mike Kennedy, Director of Sonoma County (CA) Mental Health Services. “Emotion can help capture the public’s interest when reporting on mental illness,” said Brian Dyak, CEO and President of the Entertainment Industries Council (EIC). “Listening to those who are living with mental illness can establish a dialogue that has the power to break down the stigma and discrimination.” Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and she has been active in securing mental health parity in health insurance and raising the profile of mental health in Congress. She began funding mental health services for schools in her congressional district in 2001. The program has since expanded to 15 schools and serves as a pilot program for the Mental Health in Schools Act, which she has introduced in the past three congresses and plans to re-introduce in the 113th Congress. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
01.17.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) released the following statement on the announcement of the departure of Interior Secretary Ken Salazar. “Secretary Salazar’s service has made this nation a better place for all Americans. Whether through his work with our tribal nations, the protection of our public lands, or the sustainable management of our water resources, we are grateful for his work and leadership. I wish him and his family the best of luck in their future endeavors.” Napolitano is a long-standing member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. # # #
01.14.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) announced her appointment as vice-chair of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. Napolitano will participate in a briefing on the scope of mental health in America, hosted by the task force on Tuesday, January 22. “I am honored to serve as a vice-chair on the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force.” Napolitano said. “Mental health is a critical component to the discussion, and we must work together to ensure that those in need of mental health services do not fall through the cracks. We must also increase early prevention and intervention services to address the mental health shortfalls that undermine the well-being and safety of our future leaders, our youth.” Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi named Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-5) chair of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force in December, 2012. Thompson appointed Napolitano and 11 of her colleagues to serve as vice-chairs. “The members of our task force have an extensive range of expertise, come from diverse backgrounds and will each bring fresh and different ideas to the table,” said Thompson. “Working together, we can put policies in place that reduce and prevent gun violence while also protecting law-abiding individuals’ 2nd Amendment right to own firearms.” Over the next few weeks, the task force will meet with and hear from law enforcement officers, gun owners and sportsmen groups, gun manufactures and gun retailers, mental health experts, gun violence prevention groups, members of the entertainment industry, education organizations and other experts and stakeholders. The task force is focused on developing a comprehensive set of policy proposals to reduce and prevent gun violence. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, submitted her recommendations to the task force: · Mental Health in Schools Act: This legislation, sponsored by Napolitano, would provide on-site mental health services in schools. The legislation calls for the authorization of $200 million dollars for competitive grants to establish these programs. · Mental Health Parity: Napolitano is working to lead the request for the Administration to release the final rule needed to implement Mental Health Parity. The final rule would set the guidelines needed to ensure that insurance companies are not discriminating against those with a mental illness. · Secure funding for mental health, with special focus on programs that serve military and veterans: With the current economic climate, funding for mental healthcare has been negatively affected. · Mental Health Workforce: Nationally, there is a limited number of mental health professionals, which has contributed to the current mental health crisis that enables access to resources and services, especially in rural areas and for those mental health professionals who work with children, youth, military, and veterans. · Mental Health and Media: Napolitano strongly believes that more needs to be done to properly educate the media on how to address the topic of mental health. By collaborating efforts both from media and mental health professionals, the public can be properly informed about mental health, learn how to access resources and services, rid the stigma associated with mental illness, and create an environment that is conducive to healthy help seeking behaviors. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and she has been active in securing mental health parity in health insurance and raising the profile of mental health in Congress. She began funding mental health services for schools in her congressional district in 2001. The program has since expanded to 15 schools and serves as a pilot program for the Mental Health in Schools Act. If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
01.03.2013	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) bid a loving and fond farewell to the cities and communities of the 38th District of California, which she had served since first being elected to Congress in 1998. “Thank you to a very hardworking community for 14 years of continued support, full partnerships, and great public service.” Napolitano said. “My staff and I look forward to serving the people of the 32nd District as well as continuing to work with Congresswoman Linda T. Sanchez, the new representative of the 38th District, on issues that are mutually beneficial. They are in good hands.” Napolitano was sworn in to the 113th Congress this afternoon. She is currently serving her eighth term, now representing California’s 32nd District, which includes several cities in the east and San Gabriel Valley areas of Los Angeles County, including Azusa, Baldwin Park, City of Industry, Covina, Duarte, El Monte, Irwindale, La Puente, La Verne, Monrovia, San Dimas, and West Covina, plus the unincorporated communities of Avocado Heights, Basset, and Valinda. # # #
12.19.2012	(Washington, DC) On this morning’s “Washington Journal” on C-SPAN, Congressional Mental Health Caucus Co-Chairs Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) and Rep. Tim Murphy (PA-18) discussed mental health issues in the wake of the tragic shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. “Congress needs to act and act now to help avoid future sizable tragedies like the ones we have had these past several years.” Napolitano said. “We need to educate the general public of mental health service availability and urge them to press Congress if no services are available in their communities.” The roundtable discussion allowed callers to voice their concerns regarding mental health services and ask the Co-Chairs questions as to what Congress intends to do. “When it comes to the federal government, we need to be reviewing what we do for mental health,” Murphy said. “Do we have enough funding in the areas that can help people get treatment, and is that being used effectively?” Both Co-Chairs pledged to protect existing levels of funding for mental health from budget cuts and expressed hope that the discussion will continue weeks and months after the Sandy Hook tragedy. “If you or a loved one feel you have a problem, ask for help,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to de-stigmatize the issue of mental illness and encourage those suffering to seek assistance early on.” Napolitano has introduced the Mental Health in Schools Act (HR 751) in the past three congresses and plans to re-introduce it in the 113th Congress. She has also urged the Obama Administration to issue the final rule for the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act to establish equal access to mental health and addiction recovery services. Last year, Napolitano wrote a letter urging House Republican and Democratic leadership to reject an appropriations bill (HR 3070) that included cuts to mental health and addiction services. Since 2003, the Congressional Mental Health Caucus has held briefings with military personnel, mental health providers, and Members of Congress and their staff on various mental health issues, including veterans, depression, children, and trainings to recognize warning signs. VIDEO: https://www.c-spanvideo.org/program/RPAR If you or someone you know needs help, call the SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255). # # #
12.14.2012	(Santa Fe Springs, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, released the following statement on the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. “I am saddened and troubled by this tragic, senseless violence in Connecticut. Having children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren of my own, my heart grieves with the parents who have lost their little ones. My deepest thoughts and prayers are with the students, teachers, families, and the entire Newtown community this evening.” “Today’s tragic events shed light on the continued discussion and action needed in Congress to address the issues of mental health and gun safety. We must all work together to secure and protect the federal funding needed to carry out mental health services and programs for all Americans. We must ensure that mental health support is made available for all children, their families, first responders, and the community of Newtown to help deal with this tragic event.” Napolitano serves as the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus and has introduced legislation, the Mental Health in Schools Act, to fund on-site mental health services for youth. The program is designed as a preventive measure to identify mental health problems in children early on and to help prevent tragic outcomes like depression, crime, and suicide that can occur later in life. The Mental Health in Schools Act is modeled off of Napolitano’s “Youth Suicide Prevention Program,” which she helped develop and fund for schools in her district since 2001. SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline: 1-800-985-5990 ###
12.14.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) released the following statement on the publication of the Department of Interior’s Colorado River Basin Water Supply & Demand Study: “I commend the Bureau of Reclamation, the basin states, and all of the stakeholders in their work to put together this comprehensive study,” Napolitano said. “It is clear that we face many challenges ahead when it comes to meeting our future water demands. This study starts the conversation for how we can solve these challenges. We must work together to develop a water path forward, a path that must include water recycling and efficiencies as a solution.” The Colorado River Basin Water Supply & Demand Study was authorized by the 2009 Secure Water Act. The comprehensive study was a three year effort between the Department of the Interior, the seven basin states, and numerous conservation, recreation, and interested stakeholders. The Study looks at the current and future water supply and demand trends in the Colorado River Basin and begins the conversation for adaptation and mitigation strategies to resolve those imbalances. A copy of the study can be found here. Napolitano is the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee on the House Natural Resources Committee. ###
12.04.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) made the following statement after joining her fellow Democratic colleagues in signing a discharge petition to bring H.R. 15, the Middle Class Tax Cut, up for a vote. “Republicans talk a good game about cordiality in negotiating, but when it comes down to actual bipartisanship they are nowhere to be found. They continue to hold America’s working families hostage while only protecting the interests of the wealthiest few. It is long overdue for millionaires and billionaires to contribute to our economic recovery and pay their fair share.” “My Democratic colleagues and I need our voices and our concerns to be heard in debate to air the real issue. The general public needs to understand and hear what will happen if Congress fails to act. We talk about working on a bipartisan level, yet they will not allow a hearing to be had. We must work together for the good of all Americans by extending middle class tax cuts now.” ###
11.30.2012	Rep. Napolitano Congratulates Bob Archuleta on Presidential Appointment (Pico Rivera, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) is pleased to announce, in conjunction with President Barack Obama, the appointment of Bob J. Archuleta to the United States Military Academy Board of Visitors. “I commend the President for recognizing such a respected leader of our community,” Napolitano said. “Bob’s dedication to recruiting our brightest youngsters and continued leadership of our veterans will be a welcome addition to the Board of Visitors. I congratulate Bob and wish him much success in his new role.” “I am so proud and honored to be selected as a Presidential Appointee.” Archuleta said. “I receive it on behalf of all the veterans of our nation and the men and women serving our country today. I’m looking forward to working with the President and his Administration to improve the education and training at the US Military Academy at West Point.” Mr. Archuleta is a proud father of two sons who have graduated from West Point. His son Brandon graduated as President, Class of 2005 and is currently serving as a Captain in the US Army. His son Matthew graduated as Vice President, Class of 2010 and is currently serving as a 1st Lieutenant in the US Army. Bob Archuleta is a former paratrooper who served with the 82nd Airborne Division. The Board of Visitors is an oversight board comprised of 15 individuals, four US Senators, five US Representatives, and six individuals who are personally appointed by the President. The Board makes recommendations on the operations of the Military Academy including curriculum, morale, equipment, fiscal affairs, and all other matters related to the academy. Mr. Archuleta is the first Hispanic-American to be appointed to the prestigious Board of Visitors since its inception in 1972. He serves as Los Angeles County Commissioner of Military Veterans Affairs and is currently Mayor of the City of Pico Rivera, CA. “I would like to thank everyone who supported me in this appointment,” Archuleta said. “I thank God for the opportunity to serve our country and the US Military Academy at West Point.” ###
11.28.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) released the following statement on the developing strike at the Port of Los Angeles by clerical workers of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) Local 63’s office: “Having been a secretary myself, I know very well the concerns of clerical workers including safety, fair wages, and benefits for their families,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to protect these jobs from being shipped overseas while ensuring fair treatment of those who have helped the nation’s economy through their hard work. 800 workers at Local 63’s Office Clerical Unit (63-OCU) have tried to negotiate an agreement for more than two years. The strike began yesterday at Pier 400 in the Port of Los Angeles. ###
11.27.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) released the following statement on the recent agreement between the United States and Mexico on the Colorado River: “The cooperation and agreement is welcome news to California,” Napolitano said. “It will help deal with the cycle of water shortages in the lower river basin states. This is a model for future water negotiations in the Colorado Basin and across the nation, showing how together we can solve these issues.” The landmark deal, signed on Tuesday, November 20, 2012, will bring more water from the Colorado River to California and help Mexico conserve and develop its water resources. It also lays the foundation for additional conservation projects in Mexico. Napolitano is the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee on the House Natural Resources Committee. ###
11.09.2012	Video clip from episode available here: www.youtube.com/watch?v=18wvYJ6O0CQ Los Angeles, CA – Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano appeared on the Ricki Lake Show to discuss mental health and suicide prevention. Joining Napolitano on the show were Dancing With the Stars celebrity, Mark Ballas and his mother Shirley Ballas, author Jill Bialosky, Dr. Kita Curry, and other individuals affected by suicide. “Individually and collectively, we must continue to reduce the stigma associated with mental illness,” said Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. “It is critical that we encourage people to reach out and say that they are hurting so that they can that they can get the help they need.” “Suicide is an illness, but it can be addressed, fixed, and prevented.” said Mark Ballas. “We need to help people build confidence so they can get help and we can get to the core of the problem.” Mark Ballas is a member of Congresswoman Napolitano’s Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force. The Task Force uses pubic events and media appearances to raise awareness about youth mental health and garner support for H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act. Other members of the Task Force include world champion boxer Mia St. John, Los Angeles Laker Metta World Peace, and widely-acclaimed Los Angeles band Ozomatli. The Mental Health in Schools Act would provide grant funding to establish on-site preventive mental health services in public schools, including professional therapists, educational outreach to reduce stigma in the community, and services that are culturally and linguistically appropriate for each community. Eastmont Intermediate is one of 11 schools in Napolitano’s district currently running her mental health program, which she started in 2001 after learning that one in three Latinas has contemplated suicide. Mark Ballas lost his Uncle David to suicide in 2003. He later established the Ballas Foundation with his mother, professional dancer, and leading dance coach Shirley Ballas, to raise awareness about suicide and mental illness. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK # # #
11.02.2012	stand down.jpg Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined the San Gabriel Valley Veterans Employment Committee, the Vet Hunters Project, and other community volunteers in welcoming veterans to the 2nd Annual San Gabriel Valley Homeless Veteran Stand Down at Whittier Narrows Park in South El Monte. “This is what is called coming together to help our families,” Napolitano said. “We all have relatives, friends, neighbors who have made tremendous sacrifices for our country and deserve our respect and our service to them.” The U.S. Army Reserve is providing hygiene and housing facilities throughout the 3-day event. Volunteers from the San Gabriel Valley community along with federal and state agencies, employers, training institutions, and over 100 service providers are offering medical care, mental health and substance abuse counseling, housing assistance, legal counsel, employment services, meals, and many other services. “The enthusiasm here is overwhelming and to see all of this come together is unbelievable,” said Mellanie Villarreal, Executive Director of the Vet Hunters Project. “The Stand Down brings awareness to our heroes in the shadows, and by Sunday we hope to have many of our homeless heroes housed.” “I am happy that this Stand Down is taking place, but I am sad that this type of problem is ongoing,” said Jose Ramos of Welcome Home Vietnam Veterans. According to the Regional Office of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Los Angeles County has approximately 8,100 homeless veterans, 6-8% of which are female. Napolitano thanked the nearly 500 veterans in attendance for coming to the event, encouraged them to register with the VA, and pointed out the importance of seeking mental health services. “We must ensure that our veterans not only get services for Post-Traumatic Stress but also for Traumatic Brain Injury to treat the invisible wounds of war,” said Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. “We will continue to fight for funding to provide the services that all our brave men and women and their families have earned.” National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK Press 1 to connect with the Veterans Hotline # # #
10.23.2012	Today, Rep. Grace Napolitano made the following statement on the Bureau of Reclamation’s announcement regarding funding now available through WaterSMART: “California can benefit from WaterSMART’s opportunity for funding projects already approved by Congress, which will produce more wet water to meet existing water demands and help prepare for future drought cycles,” Napolitano said. “This will create good paying jobs and help attract business in areas with low employment.” Through Title XVI, the Bureau of Reclamation provides funding for water recycling projects that reclaim and reuse municipal, industrial, domestic or agricultural wastewater and naturally impaired ground or surface waters. Applicants are eligible to request cost-shared funding for the planning, design, or construction of these projects. Rep. Napolitano sits on the Natural Resources Committee and serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power. Background: · The WaterSMART program was established by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar in February 2010. · It allows all bureaus of the Department to work with states and local entities to pursue a sustainable water supply. · Link to WaterSMART Three-Year Progress Report: https://www.usbr.gov/WaterSMART/docs/WaterSMART-thee-year-progress-report.pdf · The funding opportunity is available by searching funding opportunity number R13SF80002 on www.grants.gov. · Proposals must be submitted as indicated on www.grants.gov by Dec. 12, 2012 at 4 p.m. MST. ###
10.19.2012	On Thursday, October 18, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held a free business export seminar with the Los Angeles County Fair Association and the San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership at the Sheraton Fairplex Conference Center in Pomona. More than 70 local business people attended for free expert guidance on how to increase international sales and expand their businesses into global markets. “Thank you for coming to this important event focusing on exports,” Napolitano said. “We need more businesses here and must continue to work together to get the word out so more businesses can benefit from events like these.” “I strongly believe in Public-Private Partnerships,” said Bob Machuca, Regional Manager of Business Assistance, San Gabriel Valley Economic Partnership/Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation. “I see myself as a foot soldier for the San Gabriel Valley.” “Opportunity is out there,” said Martin Selander, International Trade Specialist, U.S. Small Business Administration. “Businesses are able to get up to a $5,000,000 loan to get them on the right track for exporting.” The panel included experts from the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Small Business Administration, the Centers for International Trade Development, the Export-Import Bank of the United States and other organizations. Seminar attendees learned about available government resources and private capital, how to research different markets, and how to secure financing. Resources for Further Information: · Small Business Administration (SBA): 1-800-U-ASK-SBA - www.sba.gov/recovery · SBA Los Angeles Office: (818) 552-3215 www.sba.gov/localresources/district/ca/la · California Job Service: (562) 402-9336 - www.caljobs.ca.gov · Small Business Opportunities with Dept. of Energy - management.energy.gov/business_DOE.htm · Small Business Opportunities with Dept. of Labor - www.dol.gov/oasam/programs/osdbu # # #
09.17.2012	(Washington, DC) On September 11, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, hosted a mental health summit entitled “Latina Youth Suicide Prevention: Stemming the Alarming Suicide Attempts” as part of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Hispanic Heritage Month events. Congresswoman Napolitano, who co-chairs the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, was joined by Dr. Luis H. Zayas, Ph.D, Dean of the University of Texas School of Social Work; Dr. Rosa Gil, Founder & CEO of Comunilife; Leon Rodriguez, Director of the Office of Civil Rights at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS); and Mia St. John, Mental Health Advocate and Former Boxing Champion. The panel discussed factors that contribute to young Latina suicide attempts and focused on available treatments. “We have been working on Latina mental health for over a decade, and we knew then how critical it would be,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to de-stigmatize the issue and promote mental wellness in the Latina youth community and all communities, as it is an issue that affects us all.” Napolitano is the author of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would provide grant funding for school districts and local mental health services providers to help students with mental health issues with on-site care and counseling. Some panelists pointed to a lack of mentoring and support from family members as a cause of low self-esteem among Latina youth. The disconnected relationships between mothers and daughters, in particular, was mentioned as a large contributing factor of Latina youth suicide. “Our girls talk about family crises, tensions, and dysfunctions that seem to be the triggers for a suicide attempt, not social rejection,” Dr. Zayas said. “There is a lot that can be done in family therapy. Raising levels of communication is key.” “At Comunilife’s ‘Life is Precious’ treatment program, we provide Latina adolescents a safe and nurturing space, hope, and the tools to become self-confident to pursue their dreams,” Dr. Gil said. “We also provide a supportive environment for their mothers, fathers and siblings, as family is the core of Latino culture.” The panel agreed that there is a large need for increased financing and attention for mental health programs. Representing HHS on the panel, Leon Rodriguez reiterated the Deparment’s focus on mental health care and the 2012 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention. “We are taking steps in the right direction, but we have a long way to go,” Rodriguez said. “We need to be sure that we are providing culturally sensitive care when addressing the health needs of the Latino community, especially surrounding the issue of suicide prevention.” Realizing the lack of care for youth in her childhood, Mia St. John has been a tireless advocate for the Mental Health in Schools Act. “I wish there had been a program for mental health when I was in school,” St. John said. “I joined efforts with Rep. Napolitano because this is something we so desperately need.” Background: · Link to facts on the Mental Health in Schools Act: https://napolitano.house.gov/resources/additional-resources/mental-health-schools-act/facts-mental-health-schools-act · In 2009, one out of every seven high school age Latina teens, or 14 percent, attempted suicide (Center for Disease Control and Prevention) · Latina school students have higher attempted suicide rates than white non-Hispanic (7.7 percent) or black non-Hispanic (9.9 percent) girls their age (Center for Disease Control and Prevention) · Suicide attempts for Hispanic girls, grades 9-12, were 70% higher than for White girls in the same age group, in 2011 (Office of Minority Mental Health) · Link to 2012 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention: https://www.surgeongeneral.gov/library/reports/national-strategy-suicide-prevention/full-report.pdf · Mental illness costs the U.S. economy $193 billion a year in lost earnings (National Institute of Mental Health) National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK # # #
08.24.2012	Deferred Actions will Mean Brighter Futures for Millions of Youths El Monte, CA – Today, U.S. Representatives Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) and Judy Chu (CA-32) will hold a community forum in conjunction with the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA), the National Immigration Law Center (NILC) and the City of El Monte in response to the recent start of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service’s application process for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The forum will inform potential applications of the necessary qualifications and procedures for deferred action, and allow applicants to speak with community groups, attorneys, and a representative from the Department of Homeland Security about their individual cases. Representatives Napolitano and Chu released the following statements: Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38): “This first step in assisting those who have worked tirelessly in helping our economy grow has been a long time coming. We’re educating these youngsters who have known no other country and came here through no fault of their own. It is their love of the U.S. that keeps them here. I applaud President Obama for taking this step and allowing our young Dreamers to have a productive place in society. Congressional Hispanic Caucus members and I will continue to press the President for broader, comprehensive immigration reform to ensure that we bring hundreds of thousands more people out of the shadows.” Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-32): “Today, we are helping fulfill the pledge made by President Obama in June. No longer will we deport DREAM students, who were brought to the United States without documents by their parents. Instead, they will be able to stay in the only country they know and love, go to school, get a job and participate in this great nation!” “Sadly, some unscrupulous brokers and notarios have already been taking advantage of these youths, asking them to pay application fees even before the applications had been released! We are here to warn DREAM-eligible students to be wary of scammers. Today’s event will help students and families by answering questions about the program and link them up with professional agencies, like CHIRLA to help as they apply. I pledge to make my office available to answer questions and link DREAMers with the help they need.” On June 15, Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano announced that DREAM students – students who were brought to the United States as young children, do not present a risk to national security or public safety, and meet several key criteria – will be considered for relief from the threat of deportation. The guidelines and application process for the Obama Administration’s deferred action policy were unveiled August 15, 2012 and upon approval, applicants would have deportation proceedings against them deferred, and be able to apply for a work permit, good up to two years. The forum will be held at Lambert Park Auditorium, 11431 McGirk St, El Monte, CA 91732, from 6:00p.m.-8:00p.m. Forms for deferred action can be found here. # # #
08.15.2012	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, visited Astrophysics, Inc. in the City of Industry, the only American x-ray security company that manufactures its products solely in the United States. Napolitano toured the factory with President and CEO Francois Zayek and met with employees who reside in the 38th District to learn more about the small business, which exports 70% of its products globally. “We must allow Astrophysics and other small companies that employ US workers the ability to compete in government contracts to sell their products here at home,” Napolitano said. “It is also critical that we continue to develop technology that allows our citizens and cargo to be protected and to promote this expansion to create more American jobs.” Astrophysics was founded in 2002 and employs over 100 workers, with approximately 40% unskilled laborers in Production and 60% skilled professionals within Administration, Accounting, Engineering, Marketing, Sales, and Service. It currently offers imaging systems ranging from mail and small parcel, to checkpoint, large baggage, and cargo inspection, to mobile screening. # # #
08.15.2012	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, visited Pan American Bank in East Los Angeles to promote its successful financial literacy campaign. Napolitano recorded a brief video message in support of financial literacy and the bank’s continued positive influence on the community. “One of the greatest needs in my district is financial literacy, specifically in minority communities,” Napolitano said. “Pan American Bank's financial literacy model starts with the innovative Ambassadors Kids and Youth Academy that introduces the Kids Savings Account, paving the way for kids to start saving for college. This model should be in every community across the USA.” Pan American Bank launched its financial literacy campaign, “My Future: I’m Saving for It!” in April 2010. Its goal continues to be to move unbanked and underbanked communities into the financial mainstream through free age-appropriate financial literacy training. Established in 1964, Pan American Bank is the only bank headquartered in East Los Angeles and is California’s oldest Latino-owned bank. Its mission is to transform and empower Latino communities through banking relationship built on trust, service, respect, communication, and guidance. Pan American Bank is the only bank in the US to produce two Treasury Secretaries. # # #
08.01.2012	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, voted against H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act, which passed the House of Representatives and would extend the Bush tax cuts for another year, including the wealthiest income bracket. “The bill continues to give tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans that need the least help,” Napolitano said. “The recovery has been slow and not helpful to millions of Americans who have lost their jobs and homes. They must be the ones that we protect.” The Republicans’ misguided bill would hurt America’s small business, since it would reduce the write-off for capital equipment, keeping them from hiring the unemployed and stimulating the economy. It would also increase the tax by average of $1,000 on 25 million families, through the elimination of the American Opportunity Tax Credit for college, the Child Tax Credit, and the Earned Income Tax Credit. Rep. Napolitano voted in favor of the Senate version of the bill, which would have extended the Bush tax cuts for all Americans except the highest income bracket. # # #
07.20.2012	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Congressional Mental Health Caucus Co-Chair, joined by the chairs of the Congressional Tri-Caucus, recognized July as National Minority Mental Health Month, to enhance public awareness about mental illness in diverse communities. “Mental health has long been ignored, and we must continue to de-stigmatize the issue and increase funding, elevating it as any other illness or conditions, such as diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, and other physical illnesses,” Napolitano said. “Mental health does not discriminate: it affects all of us regardless of race, class, or gender. Mental wellness is just as important as physical wellness. We must all be part of the solution and work to invest in mental health services for those who need help.” Rep. Charles Gonzalez, Congressional Hispanic Caucus Chairman: “While mental illness does not discriminate, it disproportionately affects our minority communities. This month must be seen as an opportunity to not only increase awareness for mental illness, but also to promote long-term solutions that address the uniqueness of America’s minority communities.” Rep. Judy Chu, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Chairwoman: “Mental health issues affect every community within our nation, but the effects of these disorders are especially challenging for minority communities where resource limitations and cultural stigmas make it much harder to address these problems. In the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community, young AAPI women have the highest rates of depression and suicide ideation of any racial group, and nearly 40 percent of Southeast Asian refugees suffer from acute levels of depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. These problems are compounded by cultural and linguistic barriers to accessing mental health services, limited research on the unique mental health needs and challenges of the AAPI community, and the fact that AAPIs have the lowest rate of mental health care use among all populations. National Minority Mental Health Awareness Month is a time to raise awareness of these critical issues, address systematic barriers to quality care, and ensure that our communities understand that saving lives is more important than saving face.” Rep. Emmanuel Cleaver, Congressional Black Caucus Chairman: “While the trend is getting better, far too little attention is paid to mental health and the racial and ethnic disparities that exist not only in mental health care, but in mental health status. For example, African Americans are 20% more likely than Whites to report psychological distress, yet are more than two times less likely than Whites to receive antidepressants, and a report from the Surgeon General found that the suicide rate among African Americans, aged 10 to 14 years, increased 233% from 1980 to 1995. Now that the Supreme Court has upheld the Affordable Care Act, we -- as a nation -- have never had a better opportunity to work to eliminate racial and ethnic mental health disparities, destigmatize mental health illnesses, improve our mental health screenings and diagnoses, expand access to needed mental health care services and treatments, and ensure that the mental health and wellness of every citizen in this nation is protected, preserved and improved.” To honor a life-long advocate for mental health, Congress designated July as Bebe Moore Campbell National Minority Mental Health Awareness Month in 2008. Before her untimely death in 2006, Campbell was an author and co-founder of the National Alliance on Mental Illness Urban Los Angeles. The goal of National Minority Mental Health Month is to increase awareness of mental illness, prevention, treatment, and research in diverse communities. According to the Office of Minority Health: The death rate from suicide for African American men was almost six times that for African American women, in 2008. African Americans are 20% more likely to report having serious psychological distress than Non-Hispanic Whites. Older Asian American women have the highest suicide rate of all women over age 65 in the United States. Suicide attempts for Hispanic girls, grades 9-12, were 70% higher than for White girls in the same age group, in 2011. While the overall death rate from suicide for American Indian/Alaska Natives is comparable to the White population, adolescent American Indian/Alaska Natives have death rates at twice the rate for Whites in the same age groups. National Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander mental health data is limited at this time. Data will be published as it is released in reports published by the CDC. National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK # # #
07.20.2012	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, released the following statement on the shooting at the movie theater in Aurora, Colorado: I am deeply saddened and troubled by this tragic, senseless violence in Colorado. My thoughts and prayers go out to the victims and their families and the entire Aurora community. # # #
07.09.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, sent a letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, and Labor Secretary Hilda Solis, requesting that the Obama Administration issue the final rule for the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act (MHPAEA). This bipartisan legislation, signed into law in 2008, ensures mental health and addiction treatment are covered the same as treatment for other medical illnesses and conditions, such as diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, and other physical illnesses. The letter comes in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling upholding the Affordable Care Act (ACA), as MHPAEA plays a critical role in allowing those suffering from mental illness and addictive disorders to have access to the benefits listed within ACA. Once the final rule is issued, Americans with mental health and addiction disorders can no longer be discriminated against by health care providers. “I support every effort that will establish long overdue equal access to mental health and addiction recovery services,” Napolitano said. Napolitano also cited how access to mental health services is especially critical for returning Iraq and Afghanistan military service members. According to a letter on July 8, 2011, sent to Secretaries Sebelius, Geithner, and Solis by former Representatives Jim Ramstad and Patrick Kennedy, over 70% of National Guardsmen and Reservists access care in the private sector. Background: · One out of every five Americans will suffer from some type of mental illness at least once in their lifetime (Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Report) · 70% of adolescents with mental health problems do not receive care (Journal of Adolescent Health, volume 38) · The U.S. military loses 25 soldiers to suicide for every soldier lost in combat (New York Times) · Link to letter sent to Secretaries Sebelius, Geithner, and Solis:https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Final% 20Mental%20Health%20Parity%20July.pdf National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK ###
06.29.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted in favor of H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, a long overdue jobs bill that would continue to fund essential highway construction, highway safety, and transit programs through September 2014. The bill also kept interest rates on federally subsidized student loans from doubling on July 1. H.R. 4348 ultimately passed by a vote of 373-52. “While it is not quite the bill we were hoping for,” Napolitano said. “This will keep the economy moving and create the new jobs and transportation projects we need.” Napolitano was pleased that the bill continues to provide federal funding of transit and that Congress removed a controversial Republican provision that would have gutted transit funding. Also, because of Napolitano’s work as a leader on rail issues in the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, H.R. 4348 does not include detrimental changes to passenger rail safety and Positive Train Control (PTC) implementation. The original draft of the bill would have delayed and weakened PTC safety measures that were put into place following the 2008 Metrolink tragedy. Additionally, H.R. 4348 includes an extension of the California NEPA-CEQA Environmental Streamlining Program, which Napolitano advocated for on behalf of Caltrans. This program will speed up transportation projects and lower project costs because it will relieve California of the burden of performing a full NEPA review when the more stringent CEQA review has already been done. Another critical component of H.R. 4348 is a major increase in the Transportation Infrastructure Finance Innovation Act (TIFIA) loans that will help implement Measure R Transit projects in the Los Angeles area in 10 years instead of the proposed 30 years. Included in H.R. 4348, Congress acted to continue the 3.4% interest rate on student loans for another year. Without action, the loan rates for over 570,000 college students from California would have doubled. “Education is critical to ensure the continued success of our nation,” Napolitano said. “College education must be affordable and accessible to everyone.” Napolitano is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
06.29.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano applauded the Supreme Court for upholding President Obama’s health care law, which also secures and protects critical mental health services for all Americans. “This is a victory for the mental health community and anyone affected by mental health related issues. Mental wellness is just as important as physical wellness, to ensure the quality of life of our youngsters, our families, our communities, and our returning service members,” Napolitano said. “The mental health provisions within the Affordable Care Act (ACA) expand on service delivery and most importantly, make certain that no American will be discriminated against when seeking mental health care. Recognition for the need of mental health services is long overdue.” The provisions in ACA will continue to make mental health an essential part of basic coverage, fund new screening programs to catch mental health related issues early on, and encourage care for suicide attempt survivors and individuals living with serious mental illness. Rep. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and the sponsor of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which is a bill that would provide on-site behavioral health services in schools. Nationally, suicide ranks as the third leading cause of death for youth ages 15-24. The legislation is modeled after a school-based mental health program Napolitano started in her District in 2001, which has now expanded to 15 schools. ###
06.28.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court upholding President Obama’s health care law: “This is a huge victory for the American people,” Napolitano said. “The 5-4 decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act (ACA) affirms that parents can continue health care coverage for their children up to the age of 26, ensures that no man, woman, or child will be denied care due to pre-existing conditions, and protects seniors from having to pay more for prescription drugs.” In the ensuing years, other provisions of ACA will include: • Effective January 1, 2013: New funding to state Medicaid programs to expand the number of Americans receiving preventive care • Effective January 1, 2014: If your employer doesn’t offer insurance, you will be able to buy it directly in an Affordable Insurance Exchange • Effective January 1, 2015: Physician payments will be tied directly to the quality care they provide According to a recent analysis conducted by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the health care legislation has had a dramatic impact for people living in California’s 38th Congressional District: • 6,700 young adults in the district now have health insurance. • 4,600 seniors in the district received prescription drug discounts worth $2 million, an average discount of $430 per senior. • 45,000 seniors in the district received Medicare preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. • 9,000 to 42,000 children with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers • 25,000 children and 90,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. • 510 small businesses in the district received tax credits to help maintain or expand health care coverage for their employees. • $22 million in public health grants have been given to community health centers, hospitals, doctors, and other healthcare providers in the district to improve the community’s health. ###
06.27.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano recognized the importance of National Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Awareness Day, a day dedicated to promote public understanding of PTS and other issues faced by many returning servicemembers. “The mental wounds of war are as serious if not more serious than the physical ones,” Napolitano said. “Our country needs to provide the services our veterans have earned and let them know it is critical that they begin the process of seeking help. Congress must continue to fully fund federal programs helping veterans with PTS, and we must continue to support and welcome our veterans and their families in our local communities.” PTSD Awareness Day was first established by Congress in 2010 after Sen. Kent Conrad, (D-N.D.), proposed honoring North Dakota Army National Guard Staff Sgt. Joe Biel, who took his own life following two tours in Iraq. Biel’s birthday was June 27. Background: Link to ways community members can help: https://www.ptsd.va.gov/about/ptsd- awareness/12_ways_to_help.asp Link to find local treatment centers: https://store.samhsa.gov/mhlocator If you or someone you know needs help, call the National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK # # #
06.26.2012	Legislation Would Improve Efficiency of Hydropower Dams WASHINGTON (June 26, 2012) -- Today, Natural Resources Democratic Ranking Member Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Subcommittee on Water and Power Ranking Member Grace F. Napolitano (D-Calif.) introduced legislation to improve the performance of federally-owned and operated hydroelectric dams across America. The “Hydro 2.0 Act” would authorize the Bureau of Reclamation to utilize revenues from new power production at existing sites to upgrade the efficiency of dozens of dams and improve their environmental performance before looking to build new dams. “The wildlife that swim and live in our rivers have evolved over millennia to become highly efficient in the water’s currents. It’s time that the same dams that create electric power from those waters evolve to become more efficient with the water, too,” said Rep. Markey. “The bill we’re introducing today will empower the Bureau of Reclamation to ensure our dams work smarter, not harder to produce electricity.” “Whether it’s our water systems or hydropower projects, efficiency improvements are the most cost effective water and power supply," said Rep. Napolitano. “The ability to make our existing hydropower systems more efficient, mitigate for environmental impacts caused by hydropower, while paying down the debt associated with power, is a win-win-win for everyone.” The Bureau of Reclamation is currently the largest water provider in the nation, and second largest producer of hydropower nationally. The agency estimates that just a one percent efficiency improvement in the 58 dams under their control could produce 16.2 megawatts of additional power at all times, resulting in extra power that is worth approximately $5.7 million annually. Upgrades to 10 of those dams could also deliver another 67 megawatts of electricity to American homes and businesses. Hydro 2.0 would help to fund these efficiency improvements through revenues from new power generation at existing facilities. A summary of the bill can be found HERE. ###
06.19.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, during a floor debate in the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) expressed her opposition to Title XIV of H.R. 2578, the Conservation and Economic Growth Act, also known as the “Border Bill”, because it threatens numerous landmark environmental laws, international water treaties, and American rights with the creation of a new 100-mile “operational control zone” on the two U.S. land borders for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Napolitano voted against the bill, which ultimately passed by a vote of 238-188. “This is a blatant attack on the environment and the health and safety of American citizens,” Napolitano said. “This bill is an attempt to erase dozens of environmental laws disguised as a solution for immigration reform.” The Border Bill gives DHS control of many of America’s public lands and waives 36 landmark laws protecting the environment and public health. It also authorizes DHS to deploy unmanned drones for surveillance over federal forests, hunting grounds, tribal lands, monuments, and parks where families gather for picnics, essentially turning these areas into “drone zones.” Recently, Secretary of DHS Janet Napolitano testified before the U.S. Senate that the operational control zone is “unnecessary, and a bad policy.” Two recent reports by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) also concluded that current federal laws are not an impediment to border protection, finding that federal land management and law enforcement agencies are cooperating and working well together to protect both U.S. borders and public lands. Napolitano is the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee on the House Natural Resources Committee. Background: Link to 36 environmental laws waived by bill:https://democrats.naturalresources.house.gov/sites/democrats.naturalresources.house.gov/files/Laws_Waived_by_Title%20XIV_.pdf Link to 54 organizations opposed to bill: https://democrats.naturalresources.house.gov/organizations-opposed-title-xiv-hr-2578 The bill will cause uncertainty about how projects owned and operated by the Bureau of Reclamation will be managed in the “drone zone,” including 1,000 miles of canals and related water delivery infrastructure Affected projects include the Yuma Desalting Plant in the Colorado River system and the Federal Columbia River Power System in Washington State and Montana ###
06.15.2012	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) released the following statement regarding President Obama’s announcement that he will halt the deportations of certain young people who were brought to the United States as children and do not present a risk to national security or public safety: “This is a great step forward on the path towards immigration reform and a boon for the United States. These bright young people have known no other country: they have achieved, served, and been educated in America, and it is their love of the U.S. that keeps them here. I applaud the President for taking this step and allowing our young Dreamers to have a productive place in society.” ###
06.15.2012	(Santa Fe Springs, CA) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) held a meeting at her district office in Santa Fe Springs with Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), and Dennis Kuewa, Director of Veterans Affairs for the Los Angeles Region, to review a recent Office of Inspector General VA report and receive an explanation for the slow response times local veterans have reported from the Los Angeles Veterans Administration. “Veterans deserve the best service that we can provide,” Napolitano said. “To that end, we will continue to work with the VA to ensure they receive the necessary support, so that our veterans can have their claims processed in a timely fashion. As more veterans return home from Iraq and Afghanistan, we must ensure that the Los Angeles Veterans Administration is ready to bear the case load and assist them with the benefits they have earned.” “It is critical that our Veterans Administration efficiently serve the men and women returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan, and those who served the nation in the Armed Forces before them. I have been deeply troubled by reports of large numbers of disability claims being handled inaccurately at the Los Angeles VA and have been working with my colleagues Grace Napolitano and Judy Chu to see that this problem is resolved expeditiously. Our brave men and women deserve the best in access and quality of care,” said Congresswoman Roybal-Allard. “The L.A. VARO is the largest in the country, so it is no surprise that it faces many challenges. We must make sure that veterans who served our country bravely and their families who have sacrificed so much are getting the treatments, services, and compensation they deserve. I am committed to ensuring that the L.A. VARO has the resources and support it needs to do so,” said Rep. Judy Chu. Kuewa shared data from a recent Inspector General report on the Los Angeles VA that showed the average disability claim took 246 days to process, compared to the national target of 180 days. A full copy of the report can be found at https://www.va.gov/oig/pubs/VAOIG-12-00245-176.pdf # # #
06.14.2012	Today marks the 237th birthday of the U.S. Army, and Rep. Grace F. Napolitano issued the following statement to congratulate the troops, veterans, and military families of the U.S. Army: “The Army has deep roots in every community in our nation, and we feel patriotic when we think of how the young men and women in our armed forces protect the integrity of the freedom that we all enjoy. Today is a special day for the Army, and I am proud of all of our brave men and women in all of our service branches. I wish you all god speed and protection wherever you are in the world. Congratulations again to the Army -- we want you to know you make us proud every day.” The United States Army traces its history to ten companies of riflemen that answered the call for a Continental Army and enlisted on June 14, 1775. Today, over 700,000 soldiers continue the traditions of the United States Army by serving in over 100 countries throughout the world. ###
06.12.2012	(Norwalk, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, along with Norwalk Workforce Services and other community groups, hosted a veterans job and resource fair at the Norwalk Arts and Sports Complex in Norwalk to assist veterans and other job-seekers in finding work. More than 200 people attended the event, which featured hiring employers, job training opportunities, and free haircuts and health screenings from the Veterans Administration’s mobile clinic. “This job fair is an opportunity to not only help vets but all of those looking for work,” Napolitano said. “In this economy there are many hardworking people who are out of a job through no fault of their own, and it is important that we use all of the resources in the community to help them find employment.” The job fair was open to all interested job-seekers, but the services offered were primarily aimed at veterans, a group that experiences especially high unemployment. All private employers were hiring for open positions. “These job fairs are incredibly important,” said Michael Dolphin, Division Chief of Employment Development Department. “Job-seekers have the opportunity to connect with those employers in a different way rather than in the job interview process.” “I think it’s a great thing for the community and for everybody who’s unemployed for a chance to make something of themselves,” said job-seeker Joseph Gonzalez. According to a recent study by the Center for a New American Security, approximately 12.7 percent of veterans who served in the military since 2001were unemployed last month, compared with a jobless rate of 7.7 percent for all non-veterans. “Our veterans and their families have made great sacrifices for us, and we must do everything we can to assist them in finding work,” Napolitano said. # # #
06.06.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) congratulated the Vet Hunters Project for finding housing for 45 local veterans who were about to be made homeless by the closing of the Pomona YMCA. “I salute the Vet Hunters Project and all of the community groups who helped find housing for our homeless vets,” Napolitano said. “Their compassion and decisive action show that our community has not forgotten the great sacrifices our homeless veterans made for us fighting overseas. These volunteers have been heroes for many homeless veterans, and they deserve our recognition and support.” The Pomona YMCA is a historic building, but it is also old and in need of major repair. In early May, the YMCA was informed that it would lose its insurance coverage in June, meaning that the building would close and the 45 veterans living there would have to be put on the streets. On May 9, the El Monte-based Vet Hunters Project called an emergency meeting to assist these veterans in finding new housing. Napolitano’s veterans field representatives attended to help with the planning. On May 11, Vet Hunters was joined by Volunteers for America, California Conservation Corps, Department of Social Services County of Los Angeles, Department of Housing and Homeless Issues of Pomona, the Pomona YMCA, Veterans Collaborative of Pomona, and the Veterans Affairs Department. By working together, they were able to find new housing for all 45 vets. In the past, Napolitano has helped connect Vet Hunters with officials in the Veterans Administration to help them in their mission. She continues to promote these connections and assist local volunteers, so that more federal resources will get down to our communities and help our vets. # # #
06.04.2012	(Washington, DC) Last week, on May 30, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) hosted a briefing on the “Comprehensive Solider Fitness” program in Washington, D.C. to educate lawmakers and their staff about the US Army’s new effort to reduce PTSD and other psychological issues by promoting “mental resilience.” “We have lost increasing numbers of troops and veterans to suicide in recent years, following the long-running wars in Afghanistan and Iraq,” Napolitano said. “This innovative program aims to help our troops maintain good mental health and prevent depression, PTSD, and other mental issues.” “This program allows us to raise the level of resilience before things go wrong,” said Master Sergeant Richard Gonzales. “We see it as training, not medical treatment. Just like we have physical training, we must also have training for the mind to improve psychological strength.” Gonzales explained that in his 26 year career, fractured relationships and alienation were most often the cause of depression leading to suicide. To demonstrate the program, he and his fellow army trainers taught the audience the skill of “active-constructive responding,” which is a way of communicating that helps build trusting relationships between troops and fosters good mental health. The briefing was the final Congressional Mental Health Caucus event for May Mental Health Awareness Month, and the third annual training for legislative staff held by the Caucus. For more information about the Comprehensive Soldier Fitness program, visit https://csf.army.mil/ National Suicide Prevention Lifeline number: 1-800-274-TALK (8255) # # #
05.25.2012	WOTY2.jpg Photo: Front row, left to right: Sandra Kraft, Doris Koegel-Roth, Barbara Kalajian, Marisol Hernandez, Cynthia Gomez, Susanna Fajardo-Rovira, Rep. Grace Napolitano, Estella Estrada, Evelyn Eleccion, Gloria Duran, Jenny Chen, Esther Celiz, Guadalupe Bojorquez. Back row, left to right: Lupe Valdez, Carol Salas, Violeta Rodriguez, Suzy Rodriguez, Adriana Rodriguez, Olivia Roberts, Cassie Ritz, Lissa Palacios, Alice Nanez, Hermelinda Martinez, Faith Lungren, Irene Luna (Washington D.C.) – Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored the 2012 Women of the Year “Unsung Heroines” for their exemplary volunteer service at an award ceremony at Town Center Hall in Santa Fe Springs. “I want to thank all of these remarkable women who volunteer their time for our communities,” Napolitano said. “Their selfless dedication and tireless work are an inspiration to all of us. They do not receive enough gratitude for all that they do, and so today we say 'thank you' for making all of our lives a little better.” “I’m thrilled and still in shock, even a little embarrassed to be recognized,” said Olivia Roberts, who volunteers at Los Altos High School in Hacienda Heights. “I am pleased and honored for this recognition,” said Faith Lungren, who volunteers at the Gabriel Foundation in the City of Industry. “I love doing the work and love working with the people that I work with. It’s a real privilege to be honored like this - frosting on the cake.” 25 women received the award. Each had their name submitted by their volunteer organization or community group which felt their contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the award and thanked each woman personally. “I love serving my community and volunteering for the kids,” said Susanna Fajardo-Rovira, from the City of La Puente. “I recommend volunteering for everyone - our community needs a lot of volunteers for our kids who have only single parent families who need our help.” The 2012 Women of the Year: Guadalupe Bojorquez, LA County Department of Parks and Recreation - East Los Angeles Esther Celiz, City of Pico Rivera - Pico Rivera Jenny Chen, Buddha’s Light Hsi Lai School- Hacienda Heights Gloria Duran, City of Santa Fe Springs -Santa Fe Springs Evelyn Eleccion, Good Neighbor Senior Club - Santa Fe Springs Estella B. Estrada, Silver Years Club - Montebello Susanna Fajardo-Rovira, City of La Puente - La Puente Cynthia Gomez, Garfield High School Army JROTC - East Los Angeles Marisol Hernandez, William Workman High School - City of Industry Barbara Kalajian, Holy Cross Armenian Apostolic Cathedral - Montebello Doris Koegel-Roth, Fo Guang Shan Hsi Lai Temple - Hacienda Heights Sandra Kraft, Norwalk American Legion Auxiliary - Norwalk Irene Luna, Palomares Park Senior Center - Pomona Faith Lundgren, The Gabriel Foundation - City of Industry Hermelinda Martinez, St. Hilary Parish - Pico Rivera Alice H. Nanez, Shade Lane Senior Club - Pico Rivera Lissa Palacios, Eastmont Community Center - East Los Angeles Cassie Ritz, Norwalk Community Coordinating Council - Norwalk Olivia Roberts, Los Altos High School - Hacienda Heights Adriana Rodriguez, East Los Angeles Women’s Center - East Los Angeles Suzy Rodriguez, East Los Angeles Residents Association - East Los Angeles Violeta Rodriguez, Happy Years Senior Club - Montebello Carol Salas, Pio Pico Woman’s Club - Pico Rivera May Sharp, L.A. CADA - Santa Fe Springs Lupe Valdez, City of Montebello – Montebello ###
05.24.2012	(Santa Fe Springs, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) hosted a roundtable meeting with more than 50 members of her 38th Congressional District Mental Health Consortium, a group of local mental health professionals who advise Napolitano on mental health issues and policy. “The mental health professionals gathered here have many years of experience helping the men, women, children, seniors, veterans, and people from all walks of life who suffer from mental health issues,” Napolitano said. “We must use the wealth of real-world knowledge we have in our communities to inform the policies that are made in Washington, D.C.” The meeting at Santa Fe Springs Town Center Hall featured a talk on mental health issues for returning military veterans and an update on congressional hearings scheduled for the fall that will address how health insurance companies cover mental health. The roundtable also included a general discussion of local mental health issues, a question and answer segment, and a detailed questionnaire about local mental health practices. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. She has been active in securing mental health parity in health insurance and raising the profile of mental health in Congress. In Los Angeles County, she has worked to fund youth suicide prevention programs in 15 local schools over the last decade. # # #
05.16.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, as part of National Mental Health Awareness Month, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus hosted military mental health experts from the Army, Air Force, Navy/Marine Corps, and Veterans Administration to educate members of Congress and their staff on how the U.S. military is addressing its mental health crisis. The Military Mental Health/Suicide Prevention Caucus and the Addiction Treatment Caucus also helped host the event. “Military service members and their families have earned the right to effective mental health services,” Napolitano said. “With rates of suicide, post-traumatic stress, and traumatic brain injury rising in recent years, we must ensure we are doing everything we can to treat these invisible wounds of war.” Napolitano was joined by her Congressional Mental Health Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), as well as Reps. Glenn Thompson (R-PA) and Tim Ryan (D-OH). Speakers included Captain John Ralph, Assistant Deputy Chief, Wounded, Ill, and Injured, Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery; Dr. Rebecca Porter, Chief of Behavioral Health for the Office of the Surgeon General; Dr. Wendy Tenhula, National Mental Health Director for Integrated Mental Health in the Office of Mental Health Services at the Department of Veterans Affairs; Colonel John Forbes, Director of Psychological Health, Air Force Medical Support Agency; and Dr. Anthony Hassan, Director of the Center for Innovation and Research on Veterans and Military Families (CIR) at the University of Southern California. For every soldier the U.S. military loses in combat, 25 veterans are lost to suicide. The number of active-duty troops hospitalized for mental health conditions rose 19% in 2011, making mental health the number one reason active-duty personnel are hospitalized for the second year in a row. In the U.S. Army, the suicide rate for active-duty members rose 80% between 2004 and 2008. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and helped lead a successful effort last year to get letters of condolence sent to the families of soldiers lost to suicide, an honor they were previously denied. She has also helped establish suicide prevention programs in 15 Los Angeles County schools over the last ten years, and is the author of the Mental Health in Schools Act. National Suicide Prevention Lifeline number: 1-800-274-TALK(8255) # # #
05.10.2012	Video of briefing available here: https://youtu.be/jmNWvwGVipQ (Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, on National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, in cooperation with the Military Mental Health and Addiction Treatment Caucuses, held a legislative briefing for members of Congress and their staff to learn about the latest policy issues concerning youth mental health. “We are bringing Congress valuable information about an issue that often goes ignored: youth mental health,” Napolitano said. “Millions of children and adolescents across our country are suffering from untreated mental health issues. Most of them lack access to mental health services that can help prevent depression, crime, drug use, and suicide later in life. The experts on our panel today will describe what we can do to give these children a better chance at mental wellbeing and a productive life.” Panelists included Pamela Hyde, Administrator for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), Anthony Mannarino, Director of the Center for Traumatic Stress in Children and Adolescents at Allegheny Hospital in Pittsburgh, PA, Christine Marsh, Director of Child Abuse and Trauma Service at Family & Children’s Services in Tulsa, OK, and Jordan Geddes, youth advocate for Maryland Coalition for Children’s Mental Health. One out of five children and adolescents in the United States suffers from some form of mental illness. The majority will experience their first symptoms by age 14, but less than half will have access to treatment or professional help. Suicide is currently the third leading cause of death for young people ages 10-24 (Center for Disease Control, 2009). Studies have shown that emotional problems decrease and attendance and grades increase for student populations when they have access to mental health services (SAMHSA report). Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and over the last ten years has helped establish suicide prevention programs in more than a dozen L.A. County schools. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act National Suicide Prevention Lifeline number: 1-800-274-TALK (8255) # # #
05.09.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, on National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was joined by professional singer/dancer Mark Ballas of Dancing with the Stars and former female world boxing champion and mental health advocate Mia St. John in calling for support for HR 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act. “Millions of children and adolescents are struggling with mental health issues all across our country,” Napolitano said. “By making mental health resources available in more of our schools, we will be better able to prevent the depression, crime, drug use, and suicide that can occur when children are denied help. Our young people need us to stand up and demand support for mental health services.” "Suicide is the third leading cause of death among young people ages 10-24,” Mark Ballas said. “We need to teach kids to seek help for their problems and not be stopped by the stigma of mental heath issues." “Implementing mental health programs in our schools should be a priority,” Mia St. John said. “Kids need a safe place to go and talk about mental health issues, and I believe that starts in our schools.” One out of five children and adolescents in the United States suffers from some form of mental illness. The majority will experience their first symptoms by age 14, but less than half will have access to treatment or professional help. Suicide is currently the third leading cause of death for youth people ages 10-24 (Center for Disease Control, 2009). Studies have shown that emotional problems decrease and attendance and grades increase for student populations when they have access to mental health services (SAMHSA report). H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, is a bill by Napolitano which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. It has earned the support of 52 members of Congress and mental health organizations from across the country, including the American Psychological Association, Mental Health America, and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). Ballas lost his Uncle David to suicide in 2003. He later established the Ballas Foundation with his mother, professional dancer and leading dance coach Shirley Ballas, to raise awareness about suicide and mental illness. St. John learned to manage her own mental health issues on the road to becoming a female world boxing champion. She is now the founder of her mental health organization El Saber Es Poder/Knowledge is Power. Ballas and St. John are members of Rep. Napolitano’s Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force, a group of celebrities and accomplished individuals who work with Napolitano to promote mental health legislation. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and has helped establish suicide prevention programs in more than a dozen L.A. County schools over the last ten years. To learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act, visit https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act National Suicide Prevention Lifeline number: 1-800-274-TALK (8255) # # #
05.01.2012	topthreecropped.jpg (Washington, D.C.) On Sunday, April 29, at the Pico Rivera Senior Center, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored the winners of this year’s 38th Congressional District Art Contest. “It is inspiring to see what our young artists are capable of,” Napolitano said. “We should continue to support the scholarships and school programs that allow these youngsters to fully develop their talent. I congratulate all of our students on the beautiful and diverse works of art they created this year.” The first place winner was Elizabeth Ewald, of Vincent Art Institute in Hacienda Heights, with her work “Restoration,” which showed a family photograph being patched back together by a bandaid. “I won by God’s grace,” Ewald said. “Family is very important, and without family, society is weak,” she said, explaining the motivation behind her painting. “Traveling to Washington, D.C. for the ceremony is a once in a lifetime chance.” Ewald will be flown to Washington, D.C. to be honored alongside other congressional art contest winners from across the country. For the next year, Ewald’s work will hang in the halls of Congress representing the 38th Congressional District of California. Second place went to Lynette Haro, from El Rancho High School, with her painting “Layers of Substance,” and third place went to Brenda Ponce, of Village Academy High School, for her photograph “Boys Being Boys.” 2012 Winners: 1st Place: Elizabeth Ewald, Vincent Art Institute, “Restoration” 2nd Place: Lynette Haro, El Rancho High School, “Layers of Substance” 3rd Place: Brenda Ponce, Village Academy High School, “Boys Being Boys” Honorable Mention: Cindy Lee, Diamond Ranch High School, “Hope” Honorable Mention: Rosa Chavez, Workman High School, “My Little Angels” Honorable Mention: Jose Lemus, Village Academy High School, “My Friends” Honorable Mention: Kimberly Vance, Warren High School, “Dancer on the Beach” Honorable Mention: Magan Vergara, Village Academy High School, “One Way Color” Honorable Mention: Tessy Lopez, Ganesha High School, “Sunglasses” Judge’s Choice: Diana Carrillo, El Rancho High School, “Divine Innocence” Judge’s Choice: Monica Isabel Ceja, Workman High School, “All It Takes is a Smile” Judge’s Choice: Maritza Cristanos, Garey High School, “Model” The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of the participating Congressional Districts, and their artwork is put on display for a year at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher. Links to images: 1st place: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/1st%20Place%20%281%29.JPG 2nd place: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/IMG_3403.JPG 3rd place: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/3rd%20place%20%281%29.JPG Top three (Left to right: Rep. Grace Napolitano, Pico Rivera Mayor Bob Archuleta, Lynette Haro, Elizabeth Ewald, Brenda Ponce): https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/topthreecropped_0.jpg https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/DSC_4676.JPG Group shot: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/IMG_3726.JPG # # #
04.30.2012	(Washington, D.C.) On Friday, April 27, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), supported by her fellow Congressional Mental Health Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), introduced a bipartisan resolution H.Res 640 to recognize May as National Mental Health Awareness Month. Since 1949, advocates across the country have used May Mental Health Awareness Month to draw attention to mental health issues affecting millions of Americans. “Mental health is an issue we usually do not see, hear, or speak about,” Napolitano said. “May Mental Health Awareness Month is a time when advocates across the country speak with one voice and break through that stigma. This congressional resolution shows their efforts are being recognized at the highest levels of government. The Congressional Mental Health Caucus is proud to support May Mental Health Awareness Month, and we will be hosting events here in Washington to ensure our lawmakers get the message as well.” Last week, Napolitano hosted a “strategy session” with dozens of mental health groups via Twitter to help prepare for National Mental Health Awareness Month. A full transcript of the chat, complete with postings about events being held across the country, can be found here: sfy.co/r7E Below are the events the Congressional Mental Health Caucus will be hosting in May, in cooperation with the Military Mental Health and Suicide Prevention Caucus and the Addiction Treatment Caucus: May 9, 2012 – National Children’s Mental Health Awareness Day. An expert panel will update members of Congress and their staff on children’s mental health issues and potential legislative solutions. Rayburn House Office Building, B-318, Washington, D.C., 9:00-10:00 AM. Speakers include Pamela Hyde, J.D., Lead Administrator for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). May 16, 2012 – Military Mental Health Awareness Day. A briefing will educate lawmakers about the ongoing mental health crisis in the military and what is being done to address it. Military agencies will also participate in a Mental Health Fair, which will showcase the latest mental health techniques and virtual reality technology. Rayburn House Office Building, B-318, Washington, D.C., 9:30-11:30 AM. May 30, 2012 – Mental Health Resources Briefing. Congressional staff will be given a mental health tool kit and learn how they can help their constituents with mental health. Rayburn House Office Building, Room 2168, Washington, D.C., 9:30-10:30 AM. According to a 2009 report, 45 million Americans are affected by some form of diagnosable mental health illness, but only 38% of them ever receive any treatment. In the United States, deaths from suicide now outnumber traffic fatalities and homicides, and the U.S. military loses 25 soldiers to suicide for every soldier lost in combat. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Mental Health Caucus and the author of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, a bill which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. She has developed a mental health and youth suicide prevention pilot program in her Los Angeles County district for more than a decade, now assisting students in 15 local schools. Links: Congressional Mental Health Caucus events page: https://mhcaucus.napolitano.house.gov/maymhmonth.shtml Background: Seventy-seven Members of Congress have signed onto H.Res. 640, designating May as National Mental Health Awareness Month: Rep Austria, Steve [R-OH-7] Rep Baca, Joe [D-CA-43] Rep Baldwin, Tammy [D-WI-2] Rep Berkley, Shelley [D-NV-1] Rep Bonamici, Suzanne [D-OR-1] Rep Brady, Robert A. [D-PA-1] Rep Brown, Corrine [D-FL-3] Rep Capps, Lois [D-CA-23] Rep Chu, Judy [D-CA-32] Rep Cicilline, David N. [D-RI-1] Rep Clarke, Yvette D. [D-NY-11] Rep Clyburn, James E. [D-SC-6] Rep Crowley, Joseph [D-NY-7] Rep Davis, Danny K. [D-IL-7] Rep Doggett, Lloyd [D-TX-25] Rep Edwards, Donna F. [D-MD-4] Rep Ellison, Keith [D-MN-5] Rep Farr, Sam [D-CA-17] Rep Filner, Bob [D-CA-51] Rep Gonzalez, Charles A. [D-TX-20] Rep Green, Al [D-TX-9] Rep Grijalva, Raul M. [D-AZ-7] Rep Gutierrez, Luis V. [D-IL-4] Rep Hahn, Janice [D-CA-36] Rep Hastings, Alcee L. [D-FL-23] Rep Hinchey, Maurice D. [D-NY-22] Rep Hinojosa, Ruben [D-TX-15] Rep Hirono, Mazie K. [D-HI-2] Rep Honda, Michael M. [D-CA-15] Rep Israel, Steve [D-NY-2] Rep Kaptur, Marcy [D-OH-9] Rep Kucinich, Dennis J. [D-OH-10] Rep Levin, Sander [D-MI-12] Rep Lewis, John [D-GA-5] Rep Lipinski, Daniel [D-IL-3] Rep Lofgren, Zoe [D-CA-16] Rep Lowey, Nita M. [D-NY-18] Rep Lujan, Ben Ray [D-NM-3] Rep Maloney, Carolyn B. [D-NY-14] Rep Matsui, Doris O. [D-CA-5] Rep McCollum, Betty [D-MN-4] Rep McNerney, Jerry [D-CA-11] Rep Meeks, Gregory W. [D-NY-6] Rep Miller, George [D-CA-7] Rep Moore, Gwen [D-WI-4] Rep Murphy, Tim [R-PA-18] Rep Olver, John W. [D-MA-1] Rep Owens, William L. [D-NY-23] Rep Pallone, Frank [D-NJ-6] Rep Pastor, Ed [D-AZ-4] Rep Pierluisi, Pedro R. [D-PR] Rep Polis, Jared [D-CO-2] Rep Rangel, Charles B. [D-NY-15] Rep Reyes, Silvestre [D-TX-16] Rep Richardson, Laura [D-CA-37] Rep Roybal-Allard, Lucille [D-CA-34] Rep Rush, Bobby L. [D-IL-1] Rep Ryan, Tim [D-OH-17] Rep Sanchez, Linda T. [D-CA-39] Rep Schiff, Adam B. [D-CA-29] Rep Schwartz, Allyson Y. [D-PA-13] Rep Serrano, Jose E. [D-NY-16] Rep Speier, Jackie [D-CA-12] Rep Stark, Fortney Pete [D-CA-13] Rep Thompson, Bennie G. [D-MS-2] Rep Thompson, Glenn [R-PA-5] Rep Thompson, Mike [D-CA-1] Rep Tonko, Paul [D-NY-21] Rep Towns, Edolphus [D-NY-10] Rep Tsongas, Niki [D-MA-5] Rep Van Hollen, Chris [D-MD-8] Rep Wasserman Schultz, Debbie [D-FL-20] Rep Waters, Maxine [D-CA-35] Rep Watt, Melvin L. [D-NC-12] Rep Waxman, Henry A. [D-CA-30] Rep Woolsey, Lynn C. [D-CA-6] # # #
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswomen Judy Chu (CA-32) and Grace Napolitano (CA-38) announced an improved outlook for continued federal funding for the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund, thanks to Senator Feinstein’s including it in the FY2013 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill. The restoration fund, set up in 1999 to address chemical contamination resulting from defense contractors dumping substances like rocket fuel, was initially intended to last 10 years. However, the extent of the contamination in the San Gabriel Valley was underestimated, and while federal money was provided for up to ten years, that timeframe became unrealistic as the scope of the problem became larger over time. With today’s developments, federal funding will continue to be available to the project for another five years. Following their announcement, Reps Chu and Napolitano released the following statements: Congresswoman Grace Napolitano (CA-38): “The San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund is all that prevents a dangerous plume of contamination from spreading into our aquifers and tainting our groundwater. I strongly support Rep. Judy Chu’s efforts to sustain this critical program, and I welcome the actions Senator Feinstein has taken to help keep the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund alive. Today we have overcome one hurdle, now we must continue to work together to ensure that this bill is signed into law.” Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-32): “I want to thank Senator Feinstein for her steadfast commitment to ensuring a safe and reliable water supply for the residents of the San Gabriel Valley. I introduced legislation to extend the time period that federal money would be available for the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund, and had the privilege of working with Senator Feinstein to make sure this happened in the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill as well. Our local water agencies need the flexibility and time to operate and maintain cleanup projects that prevent the further spreading of contamination. I applaud Congresswoman Napolitano’s long history on this issue, and I am proud to continue that fight until every last drop of contamination is removed from our community." Background: Congresswoman Napolitano was one of the first voices to call for funding to restore the San Gabriel Valley to its pristine natural state. Her efforts led to the formation of the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund. Congresswoman Chu continued these efforts by fighting to provide an additional 5 years to operate and maintain any project constructed under the San Gabriel Basin Restoration Fund. ###
04.26.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) and Mike Thompson (D-St. Helena) responded today to a scientific review by the Pacific Fishery Management Council which warned that H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, would damage salmon populations and undermine the recreational and commercial fishing industries that rely on them. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives on February 29, and has now been placed on the U.S. Senate Legislative calendar for consideration. It was recently included in the West Act introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). “West Coast fisheries and coastal communities rely on a healthy level of salmon production from the Central Valley,” the report stated. “It appears that H.R. 1837’s provisions would have an adverse effect on Central Valley salmon habitat, total salmon production, fishery participants, and fishery economic benefits.” “This scientific review shows that the House Majority’s water bill puts politics ahead of established science and would kill local jobs,” said Thompson. “The bill is nothing more than a giveaway to well-funded south-of-Delta water contractors. Solutions to California’s water challenges should be based on sound science so that wildlife is protected, and our fishers, farmers, families and businesses that depend on the Delta for their livelihoods are not harmed.” “This bill is a water grab,” Napolitano said. “It throws out years of negotiations between California’s water users in order to privilege some groups over others. This scientific review shows again how Californians will pay the economic price if this bill, or any part of it, becomes law.” H.R. 1837 rolls back environmental protections for salmon and other species and reroutes a greater share of California’s water to agricultural users in the San Joaquin Valley. This lack of protection could lead to salmon die-offs and lost fishing seasons in California and Oregon, similar to what happened in 2008 and 2009, when fishermen were unable to fish due to dangerously low population levels, costing jobs and hurting the economy. Full text of the report is available HERE. Some key points: · There is a critical link between water flows dedicated to salmon, which allow the fish to spawn, and the overall salmon population. H.R. 1837 undoes many measures Californians have put in place to protect water flows for salmon and potentially puts that population at risk. · H.R. 1837 rolls back broader habitat restoration efforts on the San Joaquin and Sacramento rivers directed at boosting salmon populations. · H.R. 1837 turns back the clock on Endangered Species Protection to 1994 levels, overturning many critical protection efforts that have been put in place to protect salmon runs since then. · Declining salmon populations have a negative effect on both sea and inland commercial and recreational fishing industries, costing jobs and negatively impacting the economy. ###
04.17.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) called for continued support for desalination programs after the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power heard testimony on the importance of these technologies that can convert seawater into drinking water. Federal desalination research projects were reauthorized in 2011 by legislative language authored by Napolitano, but funding is currently set to run out next year. “We cannot afford to let America fall behind in the area of desalination research,” Napolitano said. “Our water supply continues to be strained by population growth and climate change, and the ability to convert saltwater into drinking water is fast becoming a critical source of economic growth and international competition.” Napolitano noted that China is investing billions of dollars per year in desalination, in order to increase its water supply and sell desalination technology around the world. Currently, 61% of the lower 48 states are experiencing “abnormally dry” drought conditions, and climate scientists have stated that future decades will likely bring harsher drought cycles and increased strains on state water supplies. Desalination is one of several solutions that should be explored in order to make our water supply more reliable. The main federal desalination research program is the Desalination and Water Purification Research & Development (DWPR) Program, created in 1996. In December 2011, the House passed legislative language authored by Napolitano that continued funding for that program through September 2013, at $3 million per year. Today, the Bureau of Reclamation testified as to the importance of the program and urged the Subcommittee to extend funding past 2013. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the Water and Power Subcommittee. She was unable to attend today’s hearing and made her comments from her district in California. # # #
04.16.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), announced the creation of a new, bipartisan Congressional National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Caucus, made up of lawmakers who are dedicated to supporting the National Guard’s Youth ChalleNGe program, which is a voluntary, disciplined educational program that has allowed thousands of high-school dropouts to earn their GED. Napolitano is a co-chair of the bipartisan caucus, along with Reps. Lois Capps (D-CA), David McKinley (R-WV), and Danny Rehberg (R-MT). “It is critical that we give our children every chance to succeed,” Napolitano said. “The Youth ChalleNGe program is a proven way to help high-school dropouts earn their GED and go on to enjoy more productive careers.” The current membership of the new caucus includes Reps. Lois Capps (D-CA), Ron Kind (D-WI), David McKinley (R-WV), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Denny Rehberg (R-MT), Steven Rothman (D-NJ), and Bobby Rush (D-IL). Background: Full RAND Report on Youth ChalleNGe program: https://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/research_briefs/2012/RAND_RB9641.pdf Full MRDC Report: https://www.mdrc.org/publications/599/overview.html Each year 1.3 million kids drop out of high school, resulting in unemployment, lost wages, incarceration, homelessness, early parenthood, and strains on our justice system. The National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program (NGYCP, www.ngycp.org) effectively addresses our nation’s dropout epidemic and benefits our economy and our nation’s ability to compete. NGYCP is a voluntary, 22-week program, led by National Guard personnel, that provides students with an opportunity to get their high school diploma or GED at no cost to the family. According to a June 2011 study by MDRC, a nonprofit, nonpartisan social policy research organization, the Youth ChalleNGe Program’s participants achieve “impressive results” in educational attainment and employability. Participants are 29 percent more likely to earn a high school diploma or GED, 86 percent more likely to take college courses and earn approximately 20 percent higher wages than dropouts who do not participate in the Youth ChalleNGe Program. Since 1993, NGYCP has helped over 110,000 of our nation’s high school dropouts secure their GED. 34 percent of graduates continue on to higher education, 14 percent of graduates join the military, and 47 percent join the workforce. In February 2012, the RAND Corporation conducted a cost-benefit analysis, based on the MRDC study of the Youth ChalleNGe Program. RAND found that every dollar spent on the program results in a return of $2.66, a yield of 166 percent return on investment. In California, two Youth ChalleNGe programs in Los Alamitos and San Luis Obispo have graduated more than 4,000 students since 1998, with a graduation rate of 73%. The new Caucus will provide a forum for Members of Congress and their staff to learn more about this program and work to address the epidemic of high school dropouts. # # #
04.03.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) joined a letter along with 35 of her colleagues (including the entire California Democratic Congressional Delegation) urging the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, Jo-Ellen Darcy, to reconsider the Army Corps of Engineers’ proposed draft policy which would require the removal of all vegetation higher than two inches on California’s levees. The letter identified several concerns that must be addressed to prevent the proposed policy change from adversely affecting public safety and the environment. “The scientific and financial thinking behind this proposal should be reevaluated,” Napolitano said. “An unfunded mandate to remove plants and trees from California’s 14,000 miles of levees could strain resources needed to maintain and improve our levee system, threaten important ecosystems, and ultimately end up undermining public safety.” The bipartisan letter was signed by the following California Congressional Members (35): Doris O. Matsui (CA-05), George Miller (CA-07), Grace Napolitano (CA-38), Wally Herger (CA-02), John Garamendi (CA-10), Dan Lungren (CA-03), Mike Thompson (CA-01), Jerry McNerney (CA-11), Dennis Cardoza (CA-18), Anna Eshoo (CA-14), Jim Costa (CA-20), Jackie Speier (CA-12), Xavier Becerra (CA-31), Lois Capps (CA-23), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16), Howard Berman (CA-28), Adam Schiff (CA-29), Henry A. Waxman (CA-30), Lynn Woolsey (CA-06), Janice Hahn (CA-36), Laura Richardson (CA-37), Brad Sherman (CA-27), Barbara Lee (CA-09), Mike Honda (CA-15), Sam Farr (CA-17), Judy Chu (CA-32), Joe Baca (CA-43), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), Karen Bass (CA-33), Susan Davis (CA-53), Linda Sanchez (CA-39), Loretta Sanchez (CA-47), Pete Stark (CA-13), Bob Filner (CA-51) and Maxine Waters (CA-35). Napolitano sits on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which oversees the Army Corps of Engineers. Full text of today’s letter is below: April 3, 2012 The Honorable Jo-Ellen Darcy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 108 Army Pentagon, Room 3E446 Washington, DC 20310-0108 Dear Assistant Secretary Darcy, Thank you for your continued efforts to work with local communities to address their concerns with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) vegetation policy. In response to our letter dated February 15, 2011 concerning application of this policy in California, we appreciate your continued commitment, and that of the Corps, to our collaborative partnership with the State of California in the face of administrative, legal and resources challenges. In particular, we are heartened by the addition of another public comment period, and a resulting number of changes in the Policy Guidance Letter--Variance From Vegetation Standards for Levees and Floodwalls (PGL). We also appreciate the Corps’ constructive attempt to address public safety issues in a risk-prioritized way through the System-wide Improvement Framework process (SWIF). Unfortunately, these efforts have not resolved fundamental issues that will adversely affect public safety and cause harm to the environment. These issues were extensively documented in the April 15, 2010 letter to the Corps from the California Department of Water Resources and California Department of Fish and Game. We do not support finalizing the draft PGL and urge you to reconsider many of the important issues set forth in the letter. Specifically, the issues we are concerned about are the following: • The extremely high costs of levee construction and mitigation resulting from this policy will divert limited resources from the remediation of critical risk factors, with little or no improvement in public safety. • When the Central Valley flood protection system was turned over to the State to operate and maintain, woody vegetation was already an integral component of the levees and channels. Since that time, vegetation has been encouraged, protected, or introduced by the Corps on many levees. In other parts of the State, the Corps built levees designed with vegetation and then turned the facilities over to local agencies to maintain. The Corps should therefore be a full partner in addressing the consequences of these actions. • The Corps should make a clear distinction between existing levee systems and new federal project improvements. We accept the concept that new levees should be constructed and maintained in full compliance with Corps vegetation policies, but a regionally adaptable approach that recognizes the integration of woody vegetation is imperative for existing levees. • The PGL is so stringent, burdensome and expensive that variances are unlikely to be sought or issued except under specialized, local circumstances. Given the enormous costs of implementation and the resulting destruction of the ecosystem, the Corps’ vegetation management policies must be substantially changed in order to make credible, tangible improvements in public safety and the protection of the environment. In particular, the PGL and SWIF place an unwarranted importance on PL84/99 eligibility that has little or no bearing on the required authorization of tens of billions of dollars of State/local/ federal construction projects that are urgently needed to protect life and property. We are concerned that the PGL could double the cost of levee improvements in the state. While we are disappointed that the Corps has suspended participation in the California Levees Roundtable (Roundtable) process, we hold out hope that a spirit of collaboration will continue and enable important public safety projects to advance without placing undue burdens on local communities. We encourage the Corps to extend this collaboration to areas outside the Central Valley of California, including our local agencies along the California coast, within the San Francisco Bay Area and in semi-arid Southern California. Again, we request the following from the Corps: 1. Revise the vegetation variance policy to establish a practical process that considers the incremental risk posed by levee vegetation with respect to all risks that affect levee integrity, and whether or not the financial and environmental costs of vegetation removal are warranted. 2. Continue active collaboration in the Central Valley to work through the identified implementation issues and establish similar collaborative efforts to areas outside the Central Valley to address implementation issues unique to those areas. 3. The SWIF is a promising concept, but as written falls short of being useful. Revise the SWIF to allow projects to expediently remediate the most serious threats to levee integrity in a way that provides for the greatest public safety benefit with limited resources, such as proposed in the recently released draft Central Valley Flood Protection Plan. Thank you for your time and consideration. We look forward to your reply. # # #
03.29.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against a temporary 90-day extension of federal funding for transportation projects, instead calling upon the Republican leadership in the House to allow a vote on the comprehensive, two-year, bipartisan transportation bill recently passed by the Senate. “This temporary stop-gap bill is not enough to create the new jobs and transportation projects we need," Napolitano said. “Ninety days worth of funding is not enough to make long-term plans and hire workers for the spring construction season. The House should instead pass the two-year bipartisan transportation bill that has already passed the Senate, which is the biggest opportunity for job creation we will likely have all year. We should pass the Senate bill, sign it into law, and get people back to work as quickly as possible. “As it stands now, the Republicans are in control but they have not been able to gather enough support within their own party to pass a highway bill. I support the bipartisan Senate bill, and I cosponsored the House version, which the Democratic leaders of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee introduced last week. I believe that between House Democrats and moderate Republicans, the two-year Senate bill could pass the House if Speaker Boehner allowed a simple up-or-down vote.” Congress traditionally passes a transportation bill every few years to fund highway, rail, and public transit projects across the country. Current funding is set to expire Saturday without a new funding bill from Congress. The extension, H.R. 4281 the Surface Transportation Act of 2012, passed by a final vote of 266 to 158. Napolitano is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. Background: Without congressional action, federal funding for transportation projects across the country will run out this Saturday, March 31st. The Senate passed a bipartisan transportation bill on March 14 by a vote of 74 to 22. Their bill provides $109 billion to fund transportation projects across the country for the next two years. If Republican leadership allowed the House of Representatives to vote on the Senate bill and it passed, President Obama could immediately sign it into law. This would allow work to continue on highway construction projects across the country and give transportation planners the certainty they need to begin budgeting and hiring workers for new projects. House Republicans had been working their own transportation bill, H.R. 7, which also included oil drilling and other controversial measures, but that process was derailed in February after House Republicans were split on their support for the bill. On Monday, House Republicans proposed a 90-day extension of current funding but then withdrew it just before votes after it appeared it lacked the support to pass. On Tuesday, a 60-day extension was proposed. It too was pulled from the legislative calendar at the last minute. The two earlier attempts were done using the suspension calendar process, which requires a two-thirds vote to pass. Today’s vote was conducted by a simple majority. # # #
03.28.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Last night, at a ceremony in Washington, D.C., Rep. Grace F. Napolitano congratulated Teresa Palacios of East Los Angeles’ Eastmont Community Center on being awarded the 2012 Imagen Foundation Latina Leaders Award. Napolitano nominated Palacios for the award based on her years of leadership and volunteer service in East L.A. “Teresa Palacios’ dedication to improving the community is an inspiration to all who know her,” Napolitano said. “She has helped thousands of families with after-school programs, adult education, fitness and nutrition initiatives, and many other services. Her work reminds us of how the efforts of hardworking Latinas improve our lives every day. Tonight, I would like to thank her on behalf of all of the members of our community and congratulate her on winning this well-deserved honor.” The Imagen Foundation is a national organization that promotes positive images of Latinos in the media and recognizes Latino men and women who serve as positive role models. Palacios has helped Eastmont Community Center provide human services to more than 10,000 low income families in East Los Angeles every year. Palacios has put down deep roots in the local community, working to provide education and health improvement programs with the Montebello Unified School District, KIPP Raices Academy, Forth St. Elementary, Volunteers of America, AltaMed, Casa Maravilla, SER Jobs for Progress, Maravilla Foundation, Projecto Ayuda, Chicana Service Action Center, East Los Angeles College, TELACU, East L.A. Community Corporation and the East L.A. Women Center. Palacios also pioneered Eastmont Community Center’s innovative “Comadres in Motion” program, which provides nutritional instruction, exercise, and mental health services to prevent diabetes and improve overall health for local women. # # #
03.21.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, at a House Water and Power Subcommittee hearing, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano called for increased support for water projects within the Bureau of Reclamation’s proposed budget, pointing out that the conservation, recycling, and other water-efficiency projects receiving cuts in the budget are a cost-effective way of creating new water and new jobs. “Conservation, water recycling, and aquifer cleanup projects create new jobs and provide our communities with a clean and reliable water supply,” Napolitano said. “Having $400 million in approved water-efficiency projects for an agency with a $20 million yearly budget does not make sense. We know these projects are needed, and we must provide them with the necessary funding to move forward. I do not dispute the need to conserve and cut, and this budget generally outlines a smart path towards lower costs. However, we need greater funding for water projects that create jobs and prepare our communities for future drought cycles.” Napolitano cited a January study conducted by the Economic Roundtable on 53 water-efficiency projects in the Los Angeles area, which found that investment in water efficiency-related projects created even more jobs-per-dollar than housing construction projects (study available here). Specifically, Napolitano expressed support for the Title XVI and WaterSMART programs, which split the costs of water efficiency projects between local communities and the federal government. These small-scale projects decrease reliance on imported water and provide new water jobs at the local level. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee’s Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
03.15.2012	(Montebello, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano cut the ribbon on a new fueling station for Montebello’s growing fleet of Compresses Natural Gas (CNG) buses. “These new, clean-burning natural gas buses will allow people to commute in comfort and improve our air quality,” Napolitano said. “This fueling station will help support Montebello’s growing fleet of natural gas buses.” Napolitano supported the city’s efforts to secure $2.1 million in federal funds through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to help pay for the new bus line. Montebello currently has 7 clean-burning CNG buses and expects to acquire another 14 over the next two years. The new buses lower Montebello’s carbon footprint and contribute to cleaner air quality. # # #
03.14.2012	tradecenter.jpg (Pomona, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the grand opening of the new Trade and Conference Center at the Pomona Fairplex. “This new Trade and Conference Center will be a critical resource for our local economy,” Napolitano said. “Its state-of-the-art facilities will give the Pomona Fairplex an even higher profile, and help attract new visitors and conferees. This is a smart investment that will mean more jobs and more revenue coming to our area.” Napolitano worked with Rep. David Dreier to secure more than $1 million to help fund the Trade and Conference Center. The center is projected to create 280 full-time jobs, and will provide further economic benefits by attracting conferences and generating tax revenue for the city and county. The new facilities will host domestic and international commerce programs, expositions and trade symposia, and events that provide education in traditional trades. The 85,000 square foot, state-of-the-art conference and exhibition center also features broadband connectivity, campus-wide wireless integration, and a satellite communications system geared towards attracting and benefiting small businesses. It will have both small- and medium-sized meeting rooms outfitted with high-tech equipment, designed to help small businesses during events. Napolitano gave Dreier special recognition for his involvement in the project. Dreier has announced that he will retire at the end of this year. “Rep. Dreier has served this region well for many years,” Napolitano said. “He has been a friend to me and to our communities, working hard to help us complete this project and many others. I will truly miss him in Congress.” # # #
03.14.2012	(Washington, D.C.) This morning, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38), was honored with the Legislator Award from the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials at their Celebrating Women Who Move the Nation awards breakfast. “Minorities continue to be underserved by our transportation system, often lacking access to public transit, living closest to railroads and freeways, and suffering the health consequences of air pollution. We must continue to improve our transportation system so that it benefits all Americans. It is inspiring to be selected for this award alongside so many other accomplished women, and I look forward to continuing our work addressing our country’s critical transportation issues,” Napolitano said in a written statement. Napolitano sits on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. Her district is home to some of the densest rail and truck traffic in the country, due to its proximity to the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach. This past year, Napolitano has fought to preserve national Positive Train Control requirements that were targeted for delay or removal in the House surface transportation bill HR 7. Napolitano took a lead role in drafting those safety requirements as part of the Federal Railroad Safety Improvement Act, which was signed into law in 2008 after a horrific head-on Metrolink crash in Chatsworth, CA took the lives of 25 people. Napolitano has also continued her long-running support for the Alameda Corridor East program, which removes dangerous railroad crossings and reduces congestion in Los Angeles County’s busiest transportation corridor. She also continues to be an advocate for expanded transit, including natural gas buses and the Metro Gold Line light rail expansion into East Los Angeles. Several other women were honored at the breakfast, including Rep. Corrine Brown (FL-3), who received a Lifetime Achievement Award. ###
03.13.2012	(Montebello, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the expansion of Aeros Inc., an aerospace manufacturer based in Montebello that specializes in airships and lighter-than-air vehicles. Aeros held an opening ceremony for their new Center of Innovation, part of an expansion of their commercial operations. “Stronger U.S. manufacturing is a critical part of our economic recovery,” Napolitano said. “I am encouraged to see this aerospace manufacturer expand and grow. We must continue to support our manufacturers to create jobs for the many hard-working families who are still unemployed.” Napolitano helped secure $15.5 million in federal funding for Aeros’ new Buoyancy Assisted Lift Air Vehicle project, with the help of Reps. Brad Sherman, Judy Chu, and Adam Schiff. This lighter-than-air vehicle, still in the development stages, is designed to help the military move cargo easily in and out of difficult terrain without having to build an airstrip. The new 45,000 square foot Center of Innovation in Montebello includes expanded lab space for engineers and more manufacturing workspace for hands-on production. Aeros is one of the leading lighter-than-air aircraft manufacturing companies in the U.S. They design and build aerostats, commercial airships, military airlifts, and other applications of lighter-than-air technology. Also attending the opening were Reps. Judy Chu and Linda Sanchez. # # #
03.07.2012	011012 holiday and portrait 011.jpg (Washington, D.C.) Last night, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was honored by the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Development Disability Directors for her efforts to reduce cuts to national mental health programs. “I am honored to receive this award, and hope to continue working with mental health activists across the country to improve mental health,” Napolitano said. “Mental health continues to be a critical issue that does not receive the attention or financial support it deserves.” Last year, Napolitano led an effort in the House of Representatives to reduce proposed cuts to national mental health programs. This effort ultimately reduced cuts to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) by 88%, preserving many critical programs. State governments have already cut funding for their mental health programs by $3.4 billion over the last three years. Suicides continue to outnumber traffic fatalities, and the national suicide rate is nearly double that of homicides. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) ###
03.06.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, during a floor debate in the U.S. House of Representatives, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) expressed her opposition to H.R. 2842, the Bureau of Reclamation Small Conduit Hydropower Development and Rural Jobs Act of 2011, because of the way it overrides critical environmental protections. Napolitano continues to support small-scale hydropower projects, but objected to the bill’s waiver of National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) environmental reviews before implementing such projects. “We can develop new sources of hydropower without disregarding environmental regulations,” Napolitano said. “While I support the goal of increasing hydropower, this bill goes a step too far by granting a blanket exemption from critical environmental laws.” Napolitano cited three hydropower projects currently underway in Colorado, which is the home state of the bill’s sponsor, Rep. Scott Tipton, as an example of how such projects can succeed under current law. The projects are located in Carter Lake, Ridgeway, and South Canal, Uncompahgre Project. “These are not radical regulations,” Napolitano said. “NEPA protections have been the law of the land for more than forty years.” Napolitano is the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee on the House Natural Resources Committee. VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PVMfr80h7jc # # #
03.02.2012	(Montebello, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the reconstruction of the Paramount Boulevard bridge at a groundbreaking ceremony in Montebello. “The Paramount Boulevard bridge is a critical artery for our commuters, businesses, and first responders,” Napolitano said. “I thank our elected officials for their cooperation in securing the necessary funds to rebuild this bridge.” When a tanker truck exploded under the overpass on December 14, 2011, Rep. Napolitano immediately contacted Governor Jerry Brown and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood to request assistance. Rep. Linda Sanchez and Rep. Judy Chu also signed onto the effort. Once a California State of Emergency was put in place, $2 million in federal reconstruction funds were committed the next day. The overpass is expected to be completed by June. The new overpass will have one additional northbound lane and wider medians and sidewalks than it did previously. Napolitano is a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. More information is available at www.dot.ca.gov/dist07 # # #
02.29.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) voted against H.R. 1837, a Republican water bill which would override California’s state water rights, undo water settlements that were decades in the making, and roll back environmental protections in order to give powerful agricultural interests in the Central Valley a greater share of California's water. The bill ultimately passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 246 to 175. “We need a solution that includes all of our water users, not a plan created in Washington behind closed doors,” Napolitano said. “Congress should not overturn state law to privilege some water users over others. If enacted into law, this radical legislation would hurt California’s economy, damage our environment, and set a dangerous precedent of Congress imposing mandates onto the water supplies of the states. California is the one on the chopping block this time, but other states will soon feel the ramifications of this water grab if it is allowed to become law.” The bill, authored by Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA) and co-sponsored by Republican Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), would undo a settlement reached by the State of California, cities, fishermen, farmers and other users of water from the San Joaquin River that was decades in the making. The bill would instead overturn state law to deliver a larger share of water to agricultural users in the Central Valley. In recent weeks, the States of Colorado, Oregon, and Wyoming, the Attorney Generals of Montana and New Mexico, the Colorado River Commission of Nevada, the Western States Water Council, and the Obama Administration have all opposed the bill for the way it violates 100 years of states’ water rights and threatens water agreements across the west. Before the vote, Napolitano and Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), the Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Committee, released a report entitled “Cutting Off the Headwaters”, which describes in detail how this bill would impact California’s environment, economy, and water settlements. A link to the report is available here: https://democrats.naturalresources.house.gov/content/files/2012-02-16_RPT_HeadwatersReport.pdf Napolitano is the ranking Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
02.22.2012	(Industry, CA) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined Rep. Judy Chu in celebrating the grand opening of Exxel Outdoors’ new headquarters in the City of Industry. Napolitano and Chu helped Exxel Outdoors bring jobs back to the U.S. by working to close a loophole that had favored foreign manufacturers. “Strengthening American manufacturing is critical for our economic recovery,” Napolitano said. “I am proud to support the return of jobs from overseas and welcome this new headquarters to the San Gabriel Valley.” “All we ask for is a level playing field,” said Harry Kazazian, CEO of Exxel Outdoors. “When the playing field is level, we can produce a product in America that can compete anywhere in the world.” Exxel Outdoors, the largest sleeping bag manufacturer in the U.S., has successfully moved jobs back to the U.S. from China in recent years. Rep. Napolitano and Rep. Judy Chu asked the Obama Administration to close a loophole that allowed manufacturers in Bangladesh to import their products without paying duties. The administration ultimately agreed on Dec. 29th. Had this loophole been allowed, it would have jeopardized the viability of manufacturing sleeping bags in the U.S. Napolitano is also a co-sponsor of HR 913, the Free and Fair Trade Act of 2011, which would put this decision permanently into law. The loophole was part of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), a set of trade laws, which expired in 2010. Rep. Napolitano’s actions helped ensure that this loophole did not return when the GSP came up for renewal. ###
02.16.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, during a Natural Resources Committee markup, Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA) spoke out against H.R. 1837, a Republican water bill which would override California’s state water rights, undo water settlements that were decades in the making, and roll back environmental protections that protect California salmon and other species. “This federal legislation would take precedence over the water rights of Californians, undoing years of negotiations and setting up a new round of water wars,” Napolitano said. “That will mean more employment for lawyers, but not much for anybody else. This attempt to jump to the head of the water delivery line would be disastrous for all of California and set a dangerous precedent for other states.” The bill, authored by Rep. Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) and co-sponsored by Republican Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), would undo a settlement reached by the state of California, cities, fishermen, farmers and other users of water from the San Joaquin River that was decades in the making. The bill would instead open up water rights to the highest and most-favored corporate bidders, making water a Washington-controlled corporate commodity instead of a California community asset. Before the markup, Napolitano and Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), the Ranking Member of the Natural Resources Committee, released a report entitled “Cutting Off the Headwaters”, which details the damage this bill would do to California’s environment, economy, and water settlements. A link to the report is available HERE. Video of opening statement: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nchlc8IveNU&feature=youtu.be Napolitano is the ranking Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee.
02.13.2012	(La Puente, CA) On Saturday, February 11, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a Veterans Forum at the La Puente Senior Center, along with the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the American GI Forum. The forum brought together top officials from the Veterans Administration and the VA hospital system to take questions and discuss benefits programs with a group of about 150 veterans and their family members. “Veterans of all wars deserve our continued support,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to honor our heroes and ensure they have access to the benefits they have earned. For those veterans returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan, it is critical for them and their families to know about the VA resources that can make the transition to civilian life easier.” “It is important for all veterans to know their benefits,” said Dennis Kuewa, Director of the Veterans Administration for the Los Angeles Region. “We’re here to provide information and assistance, so they can take advantage of the medical benefits, home loans, education, and vocational rehabilitation we have to offer them.” “The Veterans Administration is responsible for providing the care our veterans are entitled to,” said Isabel Duff, Director of the Long Beach Veterans Administration Health Care System. “It is critical that veterans come in and register, because they may be eligible for benefits that they are not aware of.” “Any information is helpful,” said active duty soldier Leo Falkin. “Just telling other soldiers what benefits there are, programs like the GI Bill, VA loans, and treatment for PTSD.” Veterans have access to medical benefits, job programs, education funding, home loans, and many other benefits. With veterans returning home from Iraq and many beginning to come back from Afghanistan, it is critical that veterans and their families know what resources are available. More information can be found at Rep. Napolitano’s website at https://napolitano.house.gov/resources-returning-veterans. # # #
02.07.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), led by Rep. Judy Chu (CA-32), welcomed Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) as one of ten new Associate Members to join its ranks. “As Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, it is my pleasure to welcome our latest CAPAC members to the caucus,” Rep. Chu said. “Their commitment to serving as a voice for Asians Americans and Pacific Islanders, as well as the many diverse communities who call our great nation home, will strengthen CAPAC’s ability to fight for fair and equal treatment for all Americans. I am grateful for their dedication to our cause, and look forward to their contributions to our ever-growing community.” “I am glad to become a part of this terrific caucus,” Napolitano said. “I have worked for years with the Tri-Caucus, which includes the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, the Congressional Black Caucus, and the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, and together we have been very effective. As an Associate Member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, I look forward to continuing our work on behalf of minorities.” Other new members included Representatives Karen Bass (CA-33), Howard Berman (CA-28), Susan Davis (CA-53), Janice Hahn (CA-36), Carolyn B. Maloney (NY-14), Linda Sanchez (CA-39), Adam Schiff (CA-29), Adam Smith (WA-09), and Chris Van Hollen (MD-08). The full caucus membership now stands at 40, the largest that CAPAC has been in its 18 year history. # # #
02.03.2012	(Washington, D.C.) At a Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure markup meeting last night, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) introduced an amendment to Congress’s multi-year surface transportation bill, H.R. 7, that would have struck sections of the bill that delay the implementation of collision-avoidance positive train control technology (PTC) on U.S. trains. The positive train control requirement was first mandated in the wake of the Metrolink accident in Chatsworth, California that killed 26 people in 2008. The amendment was ultimately rejected, and H.R. 7 passed the committee early this morning with the PTC implementation delays still in place. “Positive train control can save lives,” Napolitano said. “Had positive train control been installed on the trains that collided head-on during the 2008 Chatsworth accident, we would have averted a tragedy that not many people will soon forget. Instead of supporting the positive train control requirements that went into law after that disaster, this bill adds years of delays. An ounce of prevention will save a pound of anguish and sadness later on. I am sorry to see so little value placed on the cost of a life.” BACKGROUND: · Following the catastrophic Southern California Metrolink accident in 2008 which killed 25 people and injured 135, Congress enacted the bipartisan Passenger Rail Investment and Improvement Act of 2008, which required railroads to implement Positive Train Control (PTC) on passenger rail lines and lines carrying dangerous toxic-by-inhalation hazardous materials by Dec. 31st, 2015. · The transportation bill H.R. 7 extends the deadline for implementation of PTC on passenger rail lines from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2020. · The bill also sets the deadline for PTC on rail lines on which toxic-by-inhalation hazardous materials are transported to “on or after December 21, 2020”, effectively eliminating the deadline. · PTC technology works by using computers to monitor the position and location of different trains and automatically employ braking and safety measures if a potential collision is detected. # # #
02.03.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Last night, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) introduced an amendment to Congress’s multi-year surface transportation bill, H.R. 7, which would have allowed the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to receive a fairer share of funding from the National Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. The amendment was ultimately not included in the bill, which passed out of committee early this morning. “We need more parity in how we distribute our harbor maintenance dollars,” Napolitano said. “The ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles only get back 1% of the harbor maintenance dues they pay into the national fund. We need those funds to cover the costly repairs and maintenance that currently have to be borne by the ports.” BACKGROUND: · The Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund collects payments from ports across the country for the maintenance dredging of U.S. harbors. · Over the last decade, the top ten ports in the U.S. collect 70% of the revenues and only receive 16% of expenditures from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. · The Los Angeles and Long Beach harbors receive less than 1% of the funds they pay into the system. · Napolitano’s amendment would have changed the language in H.R. 7 so that no harbor should receive less than 25% of the funding that they collect. # # #
02.03.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Early this morning, during a House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against the Republican version of Congress’s multi-year surface transportation funding bill, H.R. 7, because the bill was underfunded and contained dozens of controversial “poison pill” amendments. “Our crumbling highways, bridges, railroads, and airports are badly overdue for repairs,” Napolitano said. “States are cutting back on new projects and our national transportation system is in danger of becoming obsolete. Federal transportation funding could strengthen our economy and put millions of Americans back to work, but this bill is a band-aid that fails to make the necessary investments at a time when our economy needs them most. “This bill is also heavily loaded with dozens of controversial ‘poison pill’ amendments, including attacks on environmental regulations, drastic cuts to Amtrak, and the privatization of tax-payer funded roadways. These distractions will not bring us the economic growth we need. We should instead focus our energy on providing the critical transportation funding that will create jobs and support economic growth for years to come.” Napolitano’s Amendments Target Railroad Safety, Harbor Fund Parity Napolitano offered an amendment to the bill that would have removed sections delaying the implementation of collision-avoidance positive train control technology on rail lines, a requirement mandated in 2008 after a Metrolink accident in Chatsworth, California killed 25 people. This amendment was rejected. Napolitano’s second amendment would have added parity to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund by requiring that all ports be allowed to use 25% of their payments to the fund for the maintenance of their own ports. Currently the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach get back less than 1% of the funding they contribute to the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund. This amendment was also not included. # # #
02.01.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) hosted a mental health chat on Twitter using the hashtag #mhchat. Individuals and organizations from across the country joined an online discussion about mental health issues and the resources available to help at the federal level. A full transcript of the chat can be found here: https://sfy.co/XPr “Mental health is an issue that affects Americans from all walks of life, in every part of the country,” Napolitano said. “Using Twitter can help bring together the many people who share the goal of improving mental health. Thank you to SAMHSA and all of the people and organizations who participated and made this chat a success.” The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline also participated and had a mental health professional monitoring the chat for anyone who might need to be directed to assistance. Napolitano announced that due to the high rate of participation, there will be another mental health chat in the near future on issues affecting veterans and their families. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Mental Health Caucus and the author of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, a bill which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. Twitter handles: Rep. Grace Napolitano - @GraceNapolitano SAMHSA - @samhsagov National Suicide Prevention Lifeline - @800273TALK https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act National Suicide Prevention Lifeline number: 1-800-274-TALK(8255) # # #
01.26.2012	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano addressed the University of La Verne’s annual Water Technology Conference, discussing local water issues and the importance of research and development for finding new sources of water. “The topic of this conference – ‘Water Technology and Innovation’ – could not have come at a more appropriate time,” Napolitano said. “Our water supply faces increasing strains from climate change and a growing population. As we begin to explore new ways to provide clean water, like water recycling and desalination, the research done by our scientists and researchers will be more important than ever.” Napolitano also addressed the need to fund the San Gabriel Restoration Fund, which prevents contamination from spreading into drinking water in the San Gabriel and Central Basins. “Funding for the San Gabriel Restoration Fund, which prevents contamination from spreading into our underground aquifers, has been cut, even as groundwater contamination threatens the health and safety of our communities. On behalf of the 3 million people who get their drinking water from the San Gabriel and Central Basins, I urge the Republican leadership in Congress to help us find the necessary funding to protect this critical source of groundwater.” Background: • The Society of Civil Engineers estimates that $9.4 billion more in funding per year will be needed for water and sewer work between now and 2020. • The Bureau of Reclamation’s Title XVI (water recycling) projects have produced an estimated 260,000 acre-feet of water in 2010. Desalination Research Act • Rep. Napolitano authored the Desalination Act of 2011, which was signed into law as part of a larger year-end funding bill in December 2011. • The bill reauthorizes the Desalination Act of 1996, providing $3 million per year through 2013 to research and improve water desalination processes. • Desalination Projects and studies have been funded in more than half of the 50 states, with 38 projects being funded in California alone. • If desalination can be perfected and made cheaper, it may help us tap the ocean and brackish aquifers as a reliable source of potable water. • An October 2011 New York Times article found that China, as it did with solar panels and wind turbines, is aiming to become a force in yet another budding environment-related industry: supplying the world with fresh water. The San Gabriel Restoration Fund • Funding for key national water programs, as well as local programs like the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund, was not renewed this year due to changes made by the Republican leadership in Congress. • The program saw its funding cut because of the Republican leadership’s ban on targeted investments from Members of Congress. In previous years, local members of Congress were able to work together to secure the necessary funding. • California pumps roughly 30% of its drinking water from groundwater sources. • The San Gabriel and Central Basins serve as the primary source of drinking water for 3 million people. • Funding for the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund has been eliminated, removing the last line of defense against migrating groundwater contamination that has affected the San Gabriel Basin for over 35 years. • This cleanup Superfund site, size of Rhode Island, has treated over 24,000 acre feet of contaminated groundwater, helped fund the construction of 24 treatment facilities, and removed approximately 200 pounds of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that were polluting the water. • At least another decade of work will be necessary to cleanup contamination. • Levels of contamination have drastically increased, with costs estimated at over $1.2 billion; $345 million for construction and $901 million operations and maintenance. # # #
01.24.2012	(Washington, D.C.) Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “The President hit the mark tonight – we must rebuild an American economy that works for the middle class. “Middle-class Americans have seen their paychecks shrink for years. Now many have lost their jobs, their homes, and their certainty that their children will have a chance at a better life. We must bring back manufacturing jobs from overseas, invest in job training for our workers, and put people to work improving our infrastructure to get our economy back on track. This is a make-or-break moment for our American dream. Our families need a strong economy where hard work is rewarded, we all do our fair share, and everybody, rich or poor, plays by the same set of rules. “In my district, we have secured funding for educational programs, like new training facilities at Rio Hondo College for first responders and new research labs at Cal Poly Pomona for young aerospace engineers. We have also made investments in the local economy, like expanded commuter rail for working people, new natural-gas buses, and job training on installing and maintaining photovoltaic solar panels. These investments are down payments on future growth, and must be built upon. “We must also renew our commitment to improving our nation’s focus on mental health. Too many of our veterans, students, and people from all walks of life lack the treatment they need to address their mental health issues. We cannot ignore their suffering or the crime, suicide, imprisonment, and emergency medical care that can result when mental illness goes untreated. “I thank President Obama for keeping his promise to end the Iraq war. We must welcome our troops home, help them readjust to civilian life, and ensure they have access to the resources they have earned: job training, housing, medical treatment, and mental health services.” # # #
01.19.2012	DSC00311.JPG (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano cut the ribbon on new training equipment for Rio Hondo College’s Regional Homeland Security Training Center and a new natural-gas powered, handicap-accessible shuttle bus to move students around the main campus. Napolitano secured the federal funds that helped make the improvements possible. “Rio Hondo College is an exemplary educational institution, and these upgrades will help ensure that its facilities remain top-of-the-line,” Napolitano said. “Local police, firefighters, medical personnel, and Homeland Security officers training at Rio Hondo College will have access to new training courses, and students will be able to use the new handicap-accessible, natural gas powered bus to get around campus.” “These new additions will help us better serve our students,” said Rio Hondo College Superintendent and President Ted Martinez, Jr. “The new bus will expand our opportunity to serve all of our students, especially the disabled, and the upgrades to our Homeland Security Training Center will take us beyond the normal training program for our regional first responders. We are fortunate to have this opportunity from Rep. Napolitano to serve our students in a better fashion.” Napolitano secured $500,000 in federal funds to help Rio Hondo College purchase their new bus. The bus runs on compressed natural gas and will shuttle students up the steep hill from the bottom of campus to the main buildings, a trip that has been especially inconvenient for disabled students. Not all of the federal funding was spent on the bus, and Rio Hondo College can use the remainder to purchase more shuttles at a later date. Napolitano also secured $300,000 to upgrade the training courses at the Regional Homeland Security Training Center. Improvements include new high-powered lighting equipment for nighttime training and props for live-fire training exercises. Rio Hondo College trains personnel for more than 145 police, fire, and first responder agencies, and the new improvements will enhance the training opportunities available at the Center. # # #
12.20.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, at a signing ceremony at the White House, President Barack Obama signed the Hoover Power Allocation Act, a bill originally authored by Rep. Grace F. Napolitano that determines how the Hoover Dam will be run for the next fifty years and provides new access to power for Native American tribes and other groups. “This has been a three-year, bipartisan effort,” Napolitano said. “This law will allow the Hoover Dam to continue providing inexpensive power to millions of people through 2067, and it allows new access to the dam’s low-cost electricity for Native American tribes and other groups. I thank Senator Harry Reid for his efforts to pass this bill in the Senate.” Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) also attended the ceremony. Background: · The Hoover Power Allocation Act reauthorizes the Hoover Dam to continue distributing power through 2067, and sets aside 5 percent of its electricity for use by new entities, including Native American tribes, irrigation districts, electric cooperatives, and other entities that previously lacked access. · Power to be generated from the Hoover Dam was first allocated by Congress in 1934 as the dam was nearing completion. In 1984, Congress re-allocated Hoover power through contracts with state, municipal and utility contractors until 2017. The passage of the Hoover Power Allocation Act reauthorizes the dam from 2017 to 2067 and gives contractors time to adjust to the changes. · Over 29 million people in Arizona, California, and Nevada rely on power from the Hoover Dam, which is a clean, renewable source of energy. · The California cities of Los Angeles, Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, Anaheim, Azusa, Banning, Colton, Riverside, and Vernon, as well as the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Southern California Edison Company, and entities within Arizona and Nevada will continue to have access to electricity from the Hoover Dam. · Hoover power contractors have invested over $1.3 billion to date in maintaining the Hoover Dam, and they will continue to pay for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and equipment upgrades for the dam’s power facilities under the new authorization. · Existing power contractors have also committed to supporting the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program, which provides for the protection of 26 endangered, threatened and sensitive species on the lower Colorado River. · The bill was originally introduced in 2010 by Napolitano. For the new Congress beginning in 2011, Napolitano worked with Republican sponsor Joe Heck (R-NV) to pass the bill. · Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
12.19.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano made the following statement on House Republicans rejecting a bipartisan Senate bill that extended payroll tax cuts for the middle class, a move which could raise taxes and cut critical programs for working families: “Here we are back in Washington, once again rehashing whether millionaires and billionaires will again get a pass on doing their fair share. Millions of Americans are losing their homes and losing their jobs. The economy is inching along, worldwide markets are confronting economic troubles – and we are debating whether or not we should extend a simple payroll tax cut for working families. “Speaker John Boehner was for a compromise bill before he was against it. Is the Tea Party so strong that it is now controlling the Republican Party? “It is time to alert the American public to what this means for them and what is happening in their own backyard. Without a payroll tax cut, the average family will lose $1,000 a year. Also lost will be extended unemployment insurance that helps more than a million Americans put food on the table. Doctors serving seniors across the country will receive a nearly 30% pay cut for seeing Medicare patients if the Medicare “doc fix” included in this bill does not pass. We need to keep the economy going, extend these tax breaks for working people, and help our economy create more jobs now.” # # #
12.16.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the passage of the Reauthorization of Water Desalination Act of 2011, a bill she introduced in July which will fund federal research and development projects to improve desalination, the process of converting seawater into drinking water. The bill was included as part of H.R. 3671, a larger year-end funding bill that passed the House of Representatives and is expected to pass the Senate later today. “The funding in this bill will allow critical desalination research and development projects to move forward,” Napolitano said. “Communities in the western states, the southeast, and other parts of the country have suffered from droughts and shrinking water supplies in recent years. If perfected, desalination may help us tap the ocean as a reliable source of potable water. I thank Senator Dianne Feinstein for her efforts to move this bill through the Senate.” The bill reauthorizes the Desalination Act of 1996, allocating $3 million a year through 2013 to conduct research and improve water desalination processes. Since 1996, projects or studies have been funded in more than half of the 50 states, with 38 projects being funded in California alone. Some of the programs’ discoveries since 1996 include determining how to dispose of saline wastewater, establishing uniform industry standards for common desalination components, funding “brackish” water projects to desalinate groundwater, discovering how to withdraw seawater from below the seafloor with minimal environmental damage, and developing reverse osmosis membrane pretreatment to improve desalination. # # #
12.14.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) and Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, welcomed news that Facebook has partnered with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in integrating suicide prevention as part of its social networking services. “Suicide takes the lives of more Americans each year than traffic accidents or homicides,” Napolitano said. “Having professional help just a click away on Facebook may save lives.” “Suicide is the third leading cause of death for teenagers,” Congressman Tim Murphy said. “But these tragedies can be prevented by making sure teenagers get the help that is needed. Anything that can be done to increase access to mental healthcare for at-risk youth is a step in the right direction.” The new tool will allow friends to report potentially suicidal behavior, which then causes Facebook to follow up with a confidential email offering professional help. The person can then immediately get help by chatting with a mental health professional through Facebook’s chat system. # # #
12.14.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed news that the U.S. Postal Service will delay the closing or consolidation of any Post Office or mail processing facility until May 15, 2012, including the postal processing and distribution centers in Industry and Pasadena, which provide jobs for more than 1,000 career employees and process much of the mail for the San Gabriel Valley. “This is welcome news for the companies, employees, and cities in our area that benefit from the timely mail service and local jobs these facilities provide,” Napolitano said. “This delay gives Congress a chance to reallocate funding and address some of the Postal Service’s budgetary shortfalls, including the billions the Postal Service has overpaid into their retirement plan and their unique requirement of having to pre-fund their health care plan by $5.5 billion per year. We must work together to put the Postal Service on solid financial footing without sacrificing local jobs or mail service.” Background: • On September 15, the U.S. Postal Service announced it was examining 252 processing facilities across the country for consolidation or closure, including facilities in Industry and Pasadena. Napolitano, along with Reps. Judy Chu and Adam Schiff, sent a letter to USPS objecting to the consolidation of the two facilities: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/101911 Industry and Pasadena.pdf • September 15 marked the first time the Pasadena facility had been targeted. Napolitano, supported by Chu and Schiff, has fought to keep the Industry facility open in its current capacity since it was targeted in 2009. • On December 8, Rep. Napolitano joined a letter with 37 other members of the U.S. House of Representatives objecting to facility closures and the reduction of first class mail service. On the same day, 20 U.S. Senators requested a moratorium on all closures and changes to mail service in a similar letter. Dec. 8 letter can be viewed here: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/120811 objecting to loss of first class mail.pdf • The Industry facility currently employs 782 people and the Pasadena facility employs 234. • The future of the postal employees after consolidation is unclear. According to USPS labor contracts, all employees must be given the option of relocating. However, with closures taking place across the country, it is not clear where there are jobs available for them to fill. On August 15, USPS began requesting authority from Congress to nullify labor contracts and lay off workers. • Video of Napolitano’s testimony regarding Industry’s facility at a Government Oversight and Reform Committee hearing in June can be viewed here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pfs3zcX2I0&feature=channel_video_title # # #
12.13.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against H.R. 3630, a Republican bill which would cut federal unemployment insurance for more than a million out-of-work Americans. “Millions of people are unemployed through no fault of their own, struggling to put food on the table and looking for work,” Napolitano said. “Republicans have fought all year against raising taxes on millionaires and billionaires, while demanding more cuts to Medicare, unemployment insurance, and other programs needed by working families and seniors who already have their backs up against the wall. It is unconscionable, unfair, and bad economic policy to withdraw support from our working families when they need it most.” The bill was a Republican response to Democratic efforts to extend unemployment insurance and increase the middle-class payroll tax cut through 2012, funded with higher taxes on Americans making more than one million dollars a year. The Republican-backed H.R. 3630 rejects any tax increases on millionaires, instead offering a number of unrelated “poison pill” amendments that would cost jobs and hurt working families. “Poison Pills” in Republican Bill: · Cuts unemployment insurance for more than 1 million Americans out of work in this recession. People without jobs in high unemployment states like California could lose up to 40 weeks of unemployment insurance (reducing them from 73 to 33 weeks). All states would lose at least 14 to 34 weeks of unemployment insurance, removing billions of dollars from their local economies. · Requires millions of Medicare recipients to pay more for healthcare. · Blocks the EPA from enforcing mercury air pollution standards, endangering children’s health. · Inserts unrelated, controversial provisions like the Keystone XL oil sands pipeline. · Reduces free preventive Medicare and Medicaid services that help bring down costs. “We need a clean bill that extends unemployment insurance and payroll tax cuts to help improve our economy, without any game-playing or controversial issues added on,” Napolitano said. “Republicans should stop demanding lower environmental standards, cuts to health care services, and other unrelated measures, and immediately focus on job creation and getting the American people back to work.” Background: · Currently, the payroll tax cut and extended unemployment insurance expires Jan. 1 unless Congress votes to renew them. · According to Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics, allowing the payroll tax cut to expire would cost the average family $1,000 per year and reduce U.S. GDP by almost 0.5%. · According to a recent report by the National Employment Law Project, allowing unemployment insurance to expire could result in up to $22 billion in lost economic growth, because the money is usually immediately spent on vital necessities, and families without insurance are more likely to use homeless shelters and other services. · According to the Department of Labor, there are currently more than 4.2 unemployed workers in the U.S. economy for every available job opening. · Pres. Obama has said he will veto the bill in its current form. # # #
12.12.2011	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed celebrity dancer, musician, and Dancing with the Stars professional Mark Ballas as the newest member of her Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force. Ballas will work with Napolitano to reduce the stigma against mental health and increase the availability of mental health services for young people. “I am delighted to have Mark Ballas as an advocate for the Mental Health in Schools Act,” Napolitano said. “Mark’s courage will help us break down the stigma surrounding mental health, and his passion will help us reach the many young people who struggle with mental health issues. I look forward to working with him to raise awareness and improve our country’s youth mental health services.” "I am honored to be working with Congresswoman Napolitano and the Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force,” Ballas said. “If we can help erase the stigma of mental illness and suicide for kids in high school and college, we can change the future for their generation. It means a great deal to me, my family and the Ballas Foundation to be asked to participate in this program." Ballas lost his Uncle David to suicide in 2003. He later established the Ballas Foundation with his mother, professional dancer and leading dance coach Shirley Ballas, to raise awareness about suicide and mental illness. One out of five U.S. children and adolescents currently suffer from some form of mental health disorder, and suicide is the third leading cause of death for youth people ages 15-24. The Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force uses public events and media appearances to raise awareness about youth mental health and garner support for H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, a bill by Napolitano which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and over the last ten years has helped secure financial support for suicide prevention programs in more than a dozen L.A. County schools. https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act # # #
12.08.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, joined by 35 of her fellow representatives, sent a letter to Democratic and Republican leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives objecting to the extreme cuts to mental health services contained in the current House Labor, Health, and Human Services and Education Bill, H.R. 3070. The letter encouraged the House to adopt the Senate’s version of the bill, which spreads budget cuts out more evenly instead of focusing on mental health services for deep cuts. “This bill deals a crippling blow to our mental health services that would take years to recover from,” Napolitano said. “We have already seen severe cuts to mental health services in recent years. This latest bill would decimate critical programs that our veterans, young people, and millions of other Americans need to avoid the suicide, crime, and imprisonment that come with untreated mental health issues.” Background: · H.R. 3070 makes an 8.4 percent cut to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the main federal agency for mental health services. · States have cut funding for mental health care by nearly $3.4 billion over the last 3 years. · Suicide rates in America are currently higher than the rate of traffic fatalities (Department of Transportation). Suicides in the U.S. outnumber homicides by more than two to one. (World Health Organization) · One out of five children and adolescents suffer from a diagnosable mental health disorder, and one out of four Americans suffers from a mental health issue in a given year. (American Academy of Pediatrics, NAMI) · The following members of Congress signed onto the letter: o Rep. Joe Baca (D-CA) o Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-CA) o Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA) o Rep. David Cicilline (D-RI) o Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) o Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) o Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) o Rep. Danny Davis (D-IL) o Rep. Charles Gonzalez (D-TX) o Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) o Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL) o Rep. Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX) o Rep. Rush Holt (D-NJ) o Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) o Rep. James Langevin (D-RI) o Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) o Rep. David Loebsack (D-IA) o Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM) o Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA) o Rep. Ed Pastor (D-AZ) o Rep. Pedro Pierluisi (D-Puerto Rico) o Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) o Rep. Charles Rangel (D-NY) o Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-TX) o Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA) o Rep. Tim Ryan (D-OH) o Rep. Jose Serrano (D-NY) o Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ) o Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY) o Rep. Pete Stark (D-CA) o Rep. John F. Tierney (D-MA) o Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY) o Rep. Edolphus Towns (D-NY) o Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-NY) o Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA) Copy of the letter: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/120711%20protesting%20mental%20health%20cuts.pdf # # #
12.07.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Hoover Power Allocation Act, a bill originally authored by Rep. Grace F. Napolitano that determines how the Hoover Dam will be run for the next fifty years and provides new access to power for Native American tribes and other groups. The bill’s passage in the House today means it will now be sent to the President to be enacted into law. “This has been a three-year, bipartisan effort,” Napolitano said. “This bill puts the Hoover Dam and its customers on solid footing to purchase inexpensive power for another fifty years, and provides Native Americans and other groups with new opportunities to access the dam’s low-cost electricity. The Hoover Power Allocation Act carries on the dam’s legacy of providing businesses and families across the West with clean and affordable power.” Background: • The Hoover Power Allocation Act reauthorizes the Hoover Dam to continue distributing power through 2067, and sets aside 5 percent of its electricity for use by new entities, including Native American tribes, irrigation districts, electric cooperatives, and other entities that previously lacked access. • Over 29 million people in Arizona, California, and Nevada rely on power from the Hoover Dam. • The California cities of Los Angeles, Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, Anaheim, Azusa, Banning, Colton, Riverside, and Vernon, as well as the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Southern California Edison Company, and entities within Arizona and Nevada will continue to have access to electricity from the Hoover Dam. • Power to be generated from the Hoover Dam was first allocated by Congress in 1934 as the dam was nearing completion. In 1984, Congress re-allocated Hoover power through contracts with state, municipal and utility contractors until 2017. The passage of the Hoover Power Allocation Act reauthorizes the dam from 2017 to 2067 and gives contractors enough time to adjust to the changes. • Hoover power contractors have invested over $1.3 billion to date in maintaining the Hoover Dam, and they will continue to pay for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and equipment upgrades for the dam’s power facilities under the new authorization. • Existing power contractors have also committed to supporting the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program, which provides for the protection of 26 endangered, threatened and sensitive species on the lower Colorado River. • The bill was originally introduced in 2010 by Napolitano. For the new Congress beginning in 2011, Napolitano worked with Republican sponsor Joe Heck (R-NV) to pass the bill. • Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
12.01.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined her fellow Democrats on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure in unveiling the Invest in American Jobs Act of 2011 (H.R. 3533), a bill which would create U.S. jobs by requiring all materials used in federal transportation and infrastructure projects to be made in America. “It is time we brought manufacturing jobs back to America,” Napolitano said. “For too long, U.S. firms have taken advantage of tax breaks and loopholes to outsource work to other countries, while working American families have been left behind. The Invest in American Jobs Act will ensure that all of our bridges, roads, and railcars will be built here in America, and that all of the funding for these critical infrastructure projects will be used to create and sustain American jobs.” Background: • Loopholes in current “Buy America” requirements for federal projects have allowed the manufacturing of major transportation and infrastructure projects to be sent abroad. • Democrats highlighted the recent replacement of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge’s East Span, a multi-billion dollar project in which loopholes allowed huge sections of the project to be outsourced to a Chinese state-owned company (https://usa.chinadaily.com.cn/business/2011-07/12/content_12883862.htm). • The Invest in American Jobs Act closes these loopholes and requires all steel, iron, and manufactured goods used to construct highways, bridges, public transit systems, railways, and aviation infrastructure to be produced in the United States. • It applies “Buy America” requirements to other transportation and infrastructure investments, including rail infrastructure grants, loans and loan guarantees, Clean Water State Revolving Fund grants, and Economic Development Administration (EDA) grants. • It requires federal agencies to justify any proposed waiver of the Buy America requirements and requires public comment on any proposed waiver prior to it taking effect. • One of the largest job-creation bills currently before Congress is a multi-year transportation reauthorization bill that will fund thousands of projects across the country. The passage of the Invest in American Jobs Act would ensure that these funds are used to create and sustain jobs in the American economy. # # #
11.21.2011	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined a congressional delegation for a visit to Alabama to see first-hand the damage caused by HB 56, Alabama’s extreme anti-immigration law. “Alabama’s immigration policy has been an economic disaster,” Napolitano said. “Workers are leaving the state, agricultural crops are dying in the fields, and the local economy is losing millions of dollars. This is a law that hurts all of Alabama, not just immigrants. The entire state is now suffering the consequences of these extreme policies, and it is clearer than ever before that we need real immigration reform at the national level." Other members of Congress on the trip included Reps. Joe Baca (CA), Yvette Clark (NY), Charlie Gonzalez (TX), Al Green (TX), Raul Grijalva (AZ), Luis Gutierrez (IL), Zoe Lofgren (CA), Terri Sewell (AL), and Silvestre Reyes (TX). The trip was paid for by the representatives and taxpayer funds were not used. The members conducted an ad hoc hearing in Birmingham, where students, government officials, workers, and families affected by the law testified to the damage it has caused. After the hearing, Napolitano and the rest of the delegation participated in the launch for “One Family, One Alabama,” a grassroots campaign initiated by Alabama activists to repeal HB 56. Since Alabama enacted their restrictive immigration law last June, Alabama’s farmers have reported a shortage of agricultural workers and Alabama’s schools have seen lower attendance. The University of Alabama has estimated that the law will reduce Alabama’s economy by at least $40 million. Background Alabama’s extreme anti-immigration law, HR 56, was enacted on June 2, 2011. On September 28, the U.S. District Court for the state of Alabama blocked some elements of the bill, including a provision that requires all public schools to document and report the immigration status of each student, but it left others in place. The law currently makes it a crime for the state to provide any service to an illegal immigrant, including water service, professional licenses, death certificates, and any other type of service. The law invalidates all legal contracts that include an illegal immigrant, including loans, leases, and rental agreements, leaving any party involved in the contract without legal recourse. The law also allows police to check the immigration status of anyone they stop, arrest, or have reason to suspect may be in the country unlawfully. The law has caused widespread confusion and has imposed expensive new burdens on private employers and government offices, which now verify citizenship or risk being exposed to legal action. Many families have already left the state, resulting in a workforce shortage, damage to the economy, and a decline in state tax revenue. # # #
11.17.2011	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was honored with the 2011 Harriett Wieder Water Leadership Award by the Southern California Water Committee. “I am honored and humbled to receive this award,” Napolitano said. “Many challenges to our water supply remain for us to overcome, including climate change, a growing population, and the rising price of water. With continued cooperation at the local, state, and federal level, we can develop the reliable and inexpensive water supply we need to grow our economy. I thank the Southern California Water Committee and look forward to working together on these issues.” Napolitano was selected for her leadership on the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2011, which reauthorizes the Hoover Dam to continue providing power to communities across California, Nevada, and Arizona through 2067. The bill also sets aside 5% of the dam’s power to allow Native American tribes and other groups to access it for the first time. The House and Senate passed the bill last month after a multi-year effort Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee. ###
11.16.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was awarded the 2011 Advocate of the Year Award by the Anna Maria Arias Foundation, in recognition of her leadership and inspiration to Latinas across the country. “I am honored and humbled to receive this award,” Napolitano said. “Minorities, especially women, have a hard enough time breaking the glass ceiling. Many trailblazers came before me, and I hope that my efforts have helped show the way for the next generation of young leaders to follow, because our country needs them. The history of our nation shows that the hard-driving work ethic of minorities produces results, and that there is true strength in diversity.” Napolitano was given the award Foundation’s annual gala in Washington, D.C. Along with Napolitano, several outstanding Latina entrepreneurs were recognized for empowering the Hispanic community in the tradition of Anna Maria Arias, the late founder and editor of Latina Style Magazine. # # #
11.10.2011	MH 142.jpg Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano and widely-acclaimed Los Angeles band Ozomatli led a student roundtable at Cerritos College to draw attention to the need for youth mental health services. “The mental health needs of our young people are not being met,” Napolitano said. “Too many students lack access to mental health services and struggle with their issues alone. Studies show that professional mental health assistance can help our students feel happier, stay on track in school, and avoid the serious problems that can arise when issues go untreated. We must invest in mental health services to help the next generation meet their full potential.” “Dealing with all of the challenges in life is not something we should have to do on our own,” said Raul Pacheco, singer and guitar player for Ozomatli. “It is important to have the right mental health resources available to help young people through difficult times with as much dignity as possible.” “Good mental health helps us with relationships, with family and friends, and allows us to focus and do our work,” said Samantha Shepherd, President of the Cerritos College chapter of student mental health group Active Minds. Ozomatli credits group therapy for much the success they have experienced over their 15 year career. Band members Raul Pacheco and Ulises Bella encouraged the students present to seek mental health care if needed, saying not to be too ashamed or embarrassed to ask for help because of the stigma associated with mental health. One out of five U.S. children and adolescents currently suffer from some form of mental health disorder. Suicide is the second-leading cause of death among college-age students. Napolitano is the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus and the author of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. A local program she established in 14 Los Angeles County schools recently marked its ten-year anniversary. Ozomatli are members of the Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force, a group of prominent figures organized by Napolitano who work to reduce the stigma against mental health and increase the availability of mental health services for young people. The band has also served as worldwide Cultural Ambassadors for the U.S. State Department and has supported many humanitarian causes. https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act # # #
11.10.2011	On Tuesday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held a free business export workshop with the City of Pico Rivera and the Pico Rivera Chamber of Commerce at the Pico Park Community Center. More than 80 local business people attended for free expert guidance on how to expand their businesses into global markets. “Selling more products and services abroad will help create more jobs at home,” Napolitano said. “The experts at this workshop can help our local businesses increase their revenues and stimulate our economy.” “One of the ways we can create jobs is by exporting our products worldwide,” said Philip Ramos Jr., CEO of Philatron International Inc., a local Santa Fe Springs cable and wire manufacturer. “This is a much-needed event because it supports manufacturers and helps us do that.” The panel included experts from the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Centers for International Trade Development, the Small Business Administration, the World Trade Assistance Organization, the Minority Business Development Agency, and other organizations. Workshop attendees learned about the risks and rewards of exporting, specific local opportunities, and available government resources and private capital. # # #
11.04.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Rep. Grace F. Napolitano’s amendment by a vote of 364 to 37 to allow U.S. fishing fleets to use Guam as a port of call, which means tuna companies with facilities in the U.S. will no longer have to spend millions of dollars and thousands of man-hours moving boats to American Samoa for annual inspections. The tuna caught by these fleets support thousands of jobs in U.S. canneries, including roughly 300 local jobs at the Bumblebee Tuna processing facility in Santa Fe Springs. “A steady supply of tuna is critical for U.S. canneries like the one we have in Santa Fe Springs,” Napolitano said. “This common-sense amendment will save time and money for tuna fishermen and help keep our canneries competitive and our jobs secure.” Tuna fishing fleets operating in the remote Pacific currently must make an annual port of call to American Samoa as a condition of sailing under the U.S. flag. For roughly 60% of the fleet, that means a 2,500 mile, 7 day, $500,000 journey for each boat. Napolitano’s amendment will give tuna fishers the option to travel instead to nearby Guam, saving millions of dollars and thousands of gallons in wasted fuel for U.S. fishers operating in the Pacific. The amendment passed as part of H.R. 2838 Coast Guard Reauthorization bill. # # #
11.01.2011	Today, the Southern California Water Committee (SCWC) announced that it will be honoring Rep. Grace F. Napolitano with the 2011 Harriett Wieder Water Leadership Award at their November 17 annual dinner in the City of Industry. “I am honored to accept this award, and to recognize the many communities and agencies who work together to protect and improve our water supply,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to meet our water challenges and provide the reliable and inexpensive water we need for strong economic growth.” Napolitano was selected for her leadership on the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2011, which reauthorizes the Hoover Dam to continue providing power to communities across California, Nevada, and Arizona through 2067. The bill also sets aside 5% of the dam’s power to allow Native American tribes and other groups to access it for the first time. The House and Senate passed the bill last month after a multi-year effort. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee. # # #
10.26.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano congratulated Dr. Luis Garcia of Pacific Clinics, a mental health services provider for Los Angeles County, upon being recognized for his more than 20 years of service to local students with a “Rock in the Pond” Award from the Campaign for Public Health Foundation. “Dr. Luis Garcia is truly an unsung hero for the thousands of young people in Los Angeles County who have been helped by his programs over the years,” Napolitano said. “We have worked together to provide mental health services for local students in my district over the last decade, and his commitment and dedication to helping children has been truly inspiring. I congratulate him upon receiving this well-deserved recognition.” The award is given once a year as part of the Campaign for Public Health Foundation’s Unsung Heroes of Public Health reception. This year’s event was held at the Columbus Club in Washington, D.C. Napolitano and Garcia have worked together since 2001 on a youth suicide prevention program for local students, which now provides mental health services in 15 L.A. County Schools and recently celebrated its ten-year anniversary. ###
10.25.2011	Immigration Clinic 054.jpg On Saturday, October 22, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted an immigration clinic at the Armenian Community Center in Montebello to help guide people through the immigration and naturalization process. More than 160 people met with immigration experts and representatives from federal agencies. “America is a nation of immigrants,” Napolitano said. “If you work hard, play by the rules, and successfully make it through the citizenship process, you can join the long line of Americans who immigrated here and helped make this country great.” The following service organizations provided help and guidance at the clinic: · US Citizenship and Immigration Services · 605 Citizenship Project · CARECEN · County of Los Angeles Dept. of Consumer Affairs · NALEO Educational Fund · Neighborhood Legal Services · Catholic Charities of Los Angeles · Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles # # #
10.24.2011	DSC_0653.JPG (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the popular and widely-acclaimed Los Angeles band Ozomatli as the newest members of the Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force, a group of prominent figures who work to reduce the stigma against mental health and increase the availability of mental health services for young people. “I am proud to enlist the help of world-renowned Los Angeles band Ozomatli,” Napolitano said. “Their passion and authenticity makes them the perfect messengers for breaking down the stigma surrounding mental health and reaching the many youngsters who need help. I commend the members of Ozomatli for their heart and generosity, and I look forward to working with them to support our youth.” "Everybody needs help, everybody. As we pass through the ever changing stages of life we often find ourselves in new and challenging situations that require help from others,” said Raul Pacheco, lead singer and guitar-player. “Ozomatli is proud to say that we owe our 16 year existence as a band to the guidance of mental health professionals. Learning how to handle the pressure of success, the pressure to continually create, life on the road and our role as partners and family men has been helped by seeking out mental health assistance." One out of five U.S. children and adolescents currently suffer from some form of mental health disorder, and suicide is the third leading cause of death for youth people ages 15-24. Many youth are often too ashamed or embarrassed to ask for help because of the stigma against mental health, and encouragement from celebrities and respected figures can help them take the first step towards receiving care. Napolitano is a long-time supporter of mental health legislation and the author of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create grant funding for schools across the country to partner with local nonprofits to provide on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. Previous Mental Health in Schools Act Task Force members include Los Angeles Laker Ron Artest, winner of the 2011 J. Walter Kennedy NBA Citizenship Award, and Mia St. John, three-time female world boxing champion and mental health advocate. https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act # # #
10.21.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed news from President Barack Obama that all U.S. troops will be returning home from Iraq by the end of 2011: “A long-awaited homecoming is finally here. Our men and women serving in Iraq can look forward to being reunited with their families, and our country can look forward to the end of a war that has lasted nearly 9 years. I salute our soldiers and their families for their service, and welcome news that our mission in Iraq has finally come to an end. “All of us must be ready to receive our returning troops and help them readjust to civilian life. Many have suffered wounds both physical and mental during their service, and will need medical benefits, mental health services, and assistance in finding new jobs. Our wounded warriors have made great sacrifices for us abroad, and now we must give them the support they need here at home.” # # #
10.21.2011	Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was recognized by the Association of Community Human Service Agencies (ACHSA) for her legislative efforts to improve mental health services. “I am pleased to present this award in recognition of Rep. Napolitano’s truly outstanding track record over many years in working to improve the lives of our most vulnerable residents,” said Helen Morran-Wolf, President of ACHSA. “I am honored to receive this award, but it is those men and women who work every day to improve the lives of those with mental illness who truly deserve recognition,” Napolitano said. “We must ensure that we are giving them the support they need to deliver care and healing to the many families who need help with mental health.” ACHSA represents more than 75 nonprofit community agencies that provide child welfare, mental health, and juvenile justices services in Los Angeles County. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus and the author of H.R. 751 the Mental Health in Schools Act. # # #
10.19.2011	Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, the U.S. Senate passed the Hoover Power Allocation Act, which ensures that the Hoover Dam is able to continue providing power for another 50 years for the 29 million people in California, Arizona, and Nevada who rely on it for inexpensive energy. The bill now needs a final vote in the U.S. House of Representatives before it can be signed into law. “I applaud the Senate for its quick consideration of the Hoover Power Allocation Act, and ask leaders in the House of Representatives to do the same,” Napolitano said. “This critical legislation gives our homes and businesses inexpensive, renewable energy for another fifty years, and offers new access to Native American tribes and other entities which were previously excluded.” The bill reauthorizes the Hoover Dam to continue distributing power through 2067, and sets aside 5 percent of its electricity for use by new entities, including Native American tribes, irrigation districts, electric cooperatives, and other entities that previously lacked access. Both Democratic and Republican Senators supported the bill. The bill passed the House of Representatives on October 3 with bipartisan support. Now that is has passed the Senate, the House of Representatives will need to pass a correcting resolution that authorizes certain technical changes made in the Senate version. After the final House vote, the bill will be sent to the President to be signed into law. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the House Water and Power Subcommittee. Background: Over 29 million people in Arizona, California, and Nevada rely on power from the Hoover Dam, which is a clean, renewable source of energy. Power to be generated from the Hoover Dam was first allocated by Congress in 1934 as the dam was nearing completion. In 1984, Congress re-allocated Hoover power through contracts with state, municipal and utility contractors until 2017. H.R. 470 would authorize the dam from 2017 through 2067. Quick passage of the current Hoover Power Allocation Act is needed to give the dam’s customers and operators time to adjust to the new allocations. Under the proposed legislation, Congress would reallocate power to existing contractors in Arizona, Nevada, and California while expanding the potential pool of contractors to include federally recognized Indian Tribes and other eligible entities that are not currently able to purchase Hoover power. Existing contractors contribute 5% of their current allocation to make this expansion to other groups possible. Hoover power contractors have invested over $1.3 billion to date in maintaining the Hoover Dam, and they will continue to pay for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and equipment upgrades for the dam’s power facilities under the new authorization. The existing power contractors have also committed to supporting the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program, which provides for the protection of 26 endangered, threatened and sensitive species on the lower Colorado River. The California cities of Los Angeles, Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, Anaheim, Azusa, Banning, Colton, Riverside, and Vernon, as well as the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Southern California Edison Company, and entities within Arizona and Nevada will continue to have access to electricity from the Hoover Dam. # # #
10.19.2011	10th Ann Latina Youth Program 079.jpg Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined Pacific Clinics and the families, students, and teachers who have participated in the Youth Suicide Prevention Program for a ten-year anniversary luncheon at Santa Fe Springs Town Hall. Napolitano helped start the program with federal funding in 2001, and has supported it throughout its expansion into 15 local schools over the last ten years. “For ten years, this program has provided critical care and healing for many students and their families,” Napolitano said. “Children who struggled with terrible burdens on their own are now able to seek professional treatment that includes support from their family, friends, and teachers. I applaud everyone here for their bravery and success in addressing these issues, and ask all of us to support the resources we need as a community to ensure the best possible future for our youngsters.” The program works by partnering local school districts with Pacific Clinics to put on-site mental health professionals in the schools, where they can assist students, make family visits to the home, and raise awareness about mental health issues. “My experience was life changing. I learned to focus on the good things in my life instead of one bad experience,” said Kristina, a student. “It’s the best thing I ever did, and I know from experience now not to be afraid to seek help.” “Our relationship has gotten stronger and her self-esteem has gotten better,” said Elizabeth, her mother. “As a parent, I just wish this program was available sooner, and I wish back then I knew what signs to look for.” Background on the Youth Suicide Prevention Program: · The formal title of the program is Latina Youth Program, because it was originally targeted at Latina youth. However, because the program has since expanded to include students of all backgrounds, it now goes by “Youth Suicide Prevention Program.” · Rep. Grace F. Napolitano first funded the program in 2001, after learning that one in three teen Latinas has contemplated suicide. Three local schools partnered with health care provider Pacific Clinics to offer on-site, linguistically appropriate mental health services for students. · Napolitano continued to support the program in subsequent years and it met with success expanded to 15 local elementary, middle and high schools. · The program offers early intervention/treatment for young people with mental health issues. Trained professionals work directly in the schools, where they can get to know students and spot problems early, and also involve the family and the larger community. Many visits take place in the home to reduce the stigma of visiting a doctor’s office. · Program is completely free and open to all students. · Napolitano helped the program with its initial funding and has helped provide more than $3 million in federal funds to date. · Preventive mental health services save money by preventing crime, costly court trials, jail time, emergency room visits, job losses for those suffering, and reliance on state and federal services. · Rep. Napolitano has introduced the HR 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create $200 million in grant funding that schools across the country could apply for to partner with local mental health providers and recreate the local youth suicide prevention program in their own schools. # # #
10.12.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against free trade agreements with Korea, Colombia, and Panama which passed the House of Representatives. “Working families are struggling in America, and we cannot afford to run up our trade deficit and send more U.S. jobs overseas with these new trade deals,” Napolitano said. “These ‘free trade’ agreements are unfair to U.S. workers – they give foreign countries increased economic growth while limiting opportunities here at home. I urge my fellow members of Congress to help create new employment with real jobs legislation instead of pursuing these misguided trade deals.” In a related vote, Napolitano supported a bill H.R. 2832 which would extend Trade Adjustment Assistance, a government program which aids American workers who lose their jobs due to trade. Since 1974, the TAA program has provided retraining and education as a critical part of the social safety net for workers who lose their jobs to companies overseas. The TAA bill also passed the House. # # #
10.12.2011	(Washington, D.C.) On Saturday, October 12, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a military academy info session at Southeast Academy High School in Norwalk to give students, parents, and educators a chance to learn more about educational opportunities in our nation’s military academies. “Military service academies provide a path to higher education and leadership training for young people who wish to serve their country,” Napolitano said. “These students are the boldest and brightest, and I hope to directly assist you in pursuing your dream of attending the academy of your choice.” About 150 students spoke with representatives from West Point and the Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, and Merchant Marine service academies. “Being born in America has offered me so many opportunities, and I feel I should give back to my country that has given me so much,” said Christopher Aguila of St. Paul High School, in Pico Rivera. “Attending a military academy will allow me to serve my country.” “One of the big advantages of attending a military academy is the amount of responsibility you get when you graduate,” said Colonel Mark Toy. “A military academy graduate in the army will be in charge of about 30-40 people in a platoon. So you get to learn about leadership in the academy and put it into play on day one.” “Military academies offer so many opportunities that not only will help your career but also later in life,” said Brian Pozuelos, who was nominated to West Point by Rep. Napolitano in 2009 after graduating from Santa Fe Springs High School. Our nation’s military service academies are consistently ranked by U.S. News and World Report as some of the most selective and competitive colleges in the world. Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. Interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in Santa Fe Springs by November 18, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit www.napolitano.house.gov) • One or two letters of recommendation • A personal statement indicating why you should be considered • High school and/or college transcripts • Copy of SAT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (562) 801-2134.
10.11.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined the recently formed Congressional Caucus on Educating, Engaging, and Employing America’s Youth (also known as the “Triple-E” Caucus), a bipartisan group of lawmakers focused on improving high school graduation rates, youth unemployment, and youth poverty. “The poor economic climate has been especially hard on our young people,” Napolitano said. “They are our future leaders, but too often they lack the educational and employment opportunities they need to move forward. We must use every tool at our disposal to help our young people meet their potential and keep America competitive in the global economy.” Napolitano has focused particular attention on the National Guard YouthChalleNGe Program, a military-style program students can sign up for to help them earn their GED in a stable and disciplined setting. To date, the program has graduated more than 110,000 cadets, with 92% of participants going on to attain a GED or high school diploma, and many ultimately earning a degree at a two- or four-year college. Los Angeles County has a successful local YouthChalleNGe program at Sunburst Academy in Los Alimitos. “These are the kind of young people employers are looking for,” Napolitano said. “The graduates of the YouthChalleNGe program are committed, disciplined, and conduct their work with pride and focus. We should support this program and others like it to give more young people a path to higher education.” # # #
10.03.2011	Allows Hoover Dam to continue delivering power through 2067; expands access to electricity to new groups (Washington, D.C.) Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 470, the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2011, after a two-year effort by lead Democratic co-sponsor Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA). The bill reauthorizes the Hoover Dam to continue distributing power for another fifty years and sets aside 5 percent of its electricity for use by new entities including Native American tribes, irrigation districts, electric cooperatives, and other entities that previously lacked access. “This bill allows the Hoover Dam to continue serving the 29 million people in California, Arizona, and Nevada who rely on it for inexpensive, renewable energy,” Napolitano said. “For thousands of Native Americans, the new allocation will mean access to this critical power source for the first time. This reauthorization has been a two-year, bipartisan effort, and I strongly urge the Senate to quickly pass this critical piece of legislation.” “This bipartisan bill will ensure energy security to the millions in Southern California and elsewhere who rely on the green energy provided by the Hoover Dam,” Rep. Roybal-Allard (D-CA) said. “I want to thank Congresswoman Napolitano for her leadership on this bipartisan effort and join her in urging the Senate to act quickly and pass this important legislation.” H.R. 470 would reauthorize the dam from 2017, when the current allocation plan is set to expire, until 2067. Quick passage is needed to give the Hoover Dam’s customers and operators time to adjust to the new allocations. The California cities of Los Angeles, Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, Anaheim, Azusa, Banning, Colton, Riverside, and Vernon, as well as the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Southern California Edison Company, and entities within Arizona and Nevada will continue to have access to electricity from the Hoover Dam. Last year, the reauthorization bill passed the House of Representatives but did not clear the Senate. Rep. Napolitano is the top Democrat on the Water and Power Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives. Background Over 29 million people in Arizona, California, and Nevada rely on power from the Hoover Dam, which is a clean, renewable source of energy. Power to be generated from the Hoover Dam was first allocated by Congress in 1934 as the dam was nearing completion. In 1984, Congress re-allocated Hoover power through contracts with state, municipal and utility contractors until 2017. H.R. 470 would authorize the dam from 2017 through 2067. Hoover power contractors have invested over $1.3 billion to date in maintaining the Hoover Dam, and they will continue to pay for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and equipment upgrades for the dam’s power facilities under the new authorization. The existing power contractors have also committed to supporting the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program, which provides for the protection of 26 endangered, threatened and sensitive species on the lower Colorado River. Under the proposed legislation, Congress would reallocate power to existing contractors in Arizona, Nevada, and California while expanding the potential pool of contractors to include federally recognized Indian Tribes and other eligible entities that are not currently able to purchase Hoover power. Existing contractors contribute 5% of their current allocation to make this expansion to other groups possible. The House passed an identical reauthorization bill in June of 2010, but the Senate was unable to pass it before adjourning at the end of the 111th Congress. # # #
09.22.2011	Recording available at https://www.ustream.tv/recorded/17435501 (Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano and the WateReuse Association hosted “The Future of Alternative Energy & Water Supplies – Public, Private Partnerships,” a roundtable discussion including Reps. George Miller and Joe Baca, representatives from the Department of Energy, Department of the Interior, and the White House, and several major public and private water providers. The participants discussed the future of alternative energy and water supply policy, and how businesses, government, and local communities could work together to meet the water and energy challenges of the 21st century. “Demand for potable water and affordable power is growing, and we all must work together to meet that demand,” said Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA). “We must continue to examine the nexus between water and energy, and explore how industry and government can work together to provide the reliable sources of water and power America needs for strong economic growth.” “When you look at states like California, you see that there is a demand for new ideas and new investments when it comes to clean water sources,” added Rep. George Miller (D-CA). “We’ve got to keep water recycling infrastructure and other water-saving innovations at the forefront of our policy agenda – these are the projects that create jobs, increase the water supply and drive the use of innovative technologies. Sincere thanks to WateReuse and Rep. Napolitano for leading today’s briefing.” “I thank Rep. Napolitano for her leadership on the critical issues of water conservation and alternative energy research,” said Rep. Joe Baca (D-CA). “Today’s discussion was an excellent opportunity to explore ways the public and private sector can work together to ensure America is the world’s leader on the renewable energy innovation needed for the future.” Energy production has demanded a greater share of our limited water supply in recent years. Demand from the energy sector is expected to make up 85% of the growth in domestic water consumption between 2005 and 2030, adding another strain on our water supply in addition to a growing population and drought cycles made worse by climate change. Participants in the roundtable also included: Lauren Azar, Senior Advisor, Department of Energy Kara Finkler, Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation, Dept. of Interior Jay Jensen, Assistant Director of Land and Water Resources, Council on Environmental Quality, White House Wade Miller, WateReuse Association Daniel McCarthy, CEO, Black and Veatch Water Jon Freedman, VP General Electric Water Robb Whitaker, General Manager, Water Replenishment District Brian Good, Denver Water Richard Nagel, West Basin Municipal Water District Steven Sarnecki, VP Federal & Public Sector, OSIsoft, Microsoft Gretchen McClain, President, ITT Fluids Joe Rozza, Global Water Resource Sustainability, Coca-Cola # # #
09.21.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined her fellow lawmakers in signing onto a congressional bill which would honor the Montford Point Marines, the first group of African-American Marines who were able to serve their country. “The bravery and determination of these Marines is an inspiration to Americans of every background,” Napolitano said. “They overcame a system of prejudice to lead the way for all of the African-American Marines who came after them. I salute these heroes, and join my fellow lawmakers in asking that their memory be officially honored and recognized.” If signed into law, bill HR 2447 would award a Congressional Gold Medal to those African American Marines who were trained at Montford Point and went on to fight on the frontlines of World War II. On June 25, 1941, President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued Executive Order No. 8802, opening the doors for the very first African American Marines to enlist in the U.S. Marine Corps. The first recruits were trained at Camp Montford Point, in Jacksonville, North Carolina. More than 19,000 African-American Marines served during World War II, including some who fought in the pivotal battles for Okinawa and Iwo Jima. Awarding a Congressional Gold Medal would recognize and honor those African-American Marines who have paved the way for all of those who serve in today’s military. ###
09.20.2011	(Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano addressed the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, California, as the keynote speaker for their 2011 Water Symposium “Water, Climate & Finance: The New Intersection.” “Local communities, the federal government, and public and private water providers will all have to work together to improve our water supply for the 21st century,” Napolitano said. “Even with climate change and a growing population, there is enough water to meet future demands if we become more efficient, protect our streams and aquifers from pollution, and use the latest water technologies to increase supply. This more reliable and efficient water supply will provide a solid foundation for economic growth and expansion for years to come.” Napolitano is the top Democrat on the Water and Power Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives. The two-day conference included policy makers, scientists, and businessmen who discussed potential public-private partnerships and how to best address the diminishing global supply of potable water. The Scripps Institution of Oceanography at University of California, San Diego is one of the oldest and largest centers for ocean and earth science research in the world. # # #
09.13.2011	DSC_0456.JPG (Washington, D.C.) Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a mental health summit entitled “Salud Mental: School Based Mental Health Programs for Youth,” as part of this year’s Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Policy Conference. A panel of expert witnesses discussed youth mental health in the Latino community with an audience of mental health providers, educators, Latino activists and others. “Mental health is an issue that has been ignored for far too long, especially within the Latino community,” Napolitano said. “It is time to eliminate the stigma surrounding mental health and provide the services that will support our next generation of young leaders.” Napolitano is the author of H.R. 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would provide grant funding for school districts and local mental health services providers to help students with mental health issues with on-site care and counseling. Many of the panelists pointed to a lack of access to mental health services and the stresses of balancing an immigrant-values home life with competing messages from the media and peers at school. “I was the first generation in my family to be born in America,” said Mia St. John, mental health activist and a three-time world champion boxer. “All I wanted to be was American. I had stress, depression, symptoms that a professional could have recognized as anxiety or psychosis. By the time I was 18, I was homeless and contemplating suicide.” While one out of five U.S. children suffers from some form of mental health disorder, Latino youth have the worst access to care of any group. Twenty-one percent of Latina females in grades 9-12 have reported seriously considering suicide. “The majority of those who need help never receive it,” said Dr. Olga Acosta Price, Director of the Center for Health and Health Care in Schools at George Washington University. “Working very closely with the schools and the families is crucial.” “Mental health is an issue we realize needs more openness and attention. One young man told me ‘I can’t really tell anyone about my depression because my father will not think I am a man’ – that attitude needs to change,” said Reynaldo Casas of Viacom, who worked on the “Half of Us” mental health awareness campaign. BACKGROUND: Hispanic students have a higher incidence of “feeling sad or hopeless almost every day for two weeks in a row,” contemplating suicide, making a suicide plan, and attempting suicide than either white or black students (https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/pdf/ss/ss5905.pdf for specific statistics) Hispanic children have the highest rate of unmet need of any group for mental health services (49.4 percent, https://www.mchb.hrsa.gov/chusa10/hsfu/pages/304mht.html) Latinos will be a third of U.S. population by 2050 1 in 5 U.S. children and adolescents have some form of mental health issue (American Academy of Pediatrics) Prevention works -- behavioral and emotional problems decreased among 31 percent of kids with mental health issues after 6 month of receiving mental health care (SAMHSA report) Rep. Napolitano began funding mental health services for schools in her congressional district in 2001. The program has since expanded to 14 schools and serves as a pilot program for the Mental Health in Schools Act # # #
09.11.2011	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement on the 10th Anniversary of 9/11: The ten-year anniversary of 9/11 is a day to remember those who were lost, and to stand with their families and their loved ones. It is a day of terrible sadness for the violence that was inflicted, and it is a day to feel gratitude to and solidarity with firefighters, first responders, and everyday Americans, heroes who rushed to help in the minutes, weeks, and months following the attack. We must also never forget our commitment to assist those families with the medical and financial support they need, and we must continue our support for the heroic firefighters, policemen, and paramedics who rose to the occasion. On 9/11, terrorists aimed to instill fear in the American people and weaken our commitment to American values. Ten years later, we have new protections to keep us safe, and a new understanding of how precious our American way of life is. Our values have endured for more than two centuries, and the trials of 9/11 have again shown that the bonds between us are stronger than any ideology of hate. We must never forget the lessons of 9/11. We will continue to honor the memory of those we lost, and remain vigilant against any new threat. Ten years after tragedy, we can take heart in seeing that the American spirit remains as strong as ever. ###
09.08.2011	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined 46 of her fellow lawmakers in opposing cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security as part of any deficit-reduction package created by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, also known as the “Super Committee.” This new committee of House and Senate members has until November 23 to find $1.5 billion in deficit reduction as part of the debt limit bill signed into law last month. “Seniors and working families are still facing job losses and housing foreclosures in this economy, and we cannot afford to make deep cuts to the Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security benefits they rely on,” Napolitano said. “This new ‘super committee’ must balance our budget without making the recession even more painful for the most vulnerable among us. The committee members should remember the sacrifices working people have already had to make, and ensure that Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security are protected during these negotiations.” Napolitano joined the other lawmakers in signing onto H. Con. Res. 72, an official resolution which would express the sense of the U.S. House of Representatives that the actions of the super committee should not reduce benefits for Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Text of H. Con. Res. 72, Concurrent Resolution: Expressing the sense of Congress that any legislative language approved by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction should not reduce benefits for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid recipients. Whereas S.365, the `Budget Control Act of 2011', creates a Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction tasked with providing recommendations and legislative language that will significantly improve the short-term and long-term fiscal imbalance of the Federal Government; Whereas large majorities of Americans want to address the deficit in a way that preserves Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security benefits; Whereas the Medicare program reflects the Nation's commitment to the health and independence of older Americans and Americans with disabilities by providing health care coverage to 42 million people; Whereas Medicare safeguards beneficiaries and their families from the ruinous costs of medical treatments and prevents individuals from spending unmanageable proportions of their incomes on medical care or being pushed into poverty by their medical bills; Whereas Medicaid provides a safety net for both low-income and middle-class families who may have family members stricken with catastrophic illness or injury or face prolonged infirmity in old age; Whereas cuts to Medicaid would severely impact low-income families and individuals with disabilities, and curtail access to critical services, including nursing home and community care services; Whereas cuts to Medicaid would limit the program's ability to provide women without health care coverage with prenatal, maternity, and postnatal care and hamper the United States efforts to prevent infant and prenatal deaths; Whereas Social Security provides essential financial support to almost 55 million people in the United States, including more than 35 million retired workers; Whereas Social Security provides modest benefits averaging $14,000 per year for retired workers, based on contributions paid into Social Security over a worker's lifetime of employment; Whereas Social Security can pay full benefits through 2035; Whereas Social Security has no borrowing authority, currently has $2.7 trillion in accumulated assets, and, therefore, does not contribute to the Federal budget deficit; and Whereas the citizens of the United States deserve thoughtful and fair Social Security reform to protect current and future benefits and to ensure ongoing retirement security for seniors, protections for persons who become disabled, and benefits for the young children and spouses of deceased and disabled workers: Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),That it is the sense of Congress that— any deficit reduction plan put forward by the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction should not balance the budget by eroding America's hard-earned retirement plan and social safety net; Medicare's ability to deliver high quality health care in a cost-efficient manner should be strengthened and its benefits should be preserved for current and future retirees; appropriate reform to strengthen Social Security's long-term outlook should ensure that Social Security remains a critical source of protection for the people of the United States and their families without further increasing the retirement age or otherwise decreasing benefits; and Federal funding for the Medicaid program should be maintained so that senior citizens, poor and disabled children, and others with disabilities are able to gain and retain access to affordable health care. # # #
08.25.2011	On Monday, August 22, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano met with members of the Army Corps of Engineers for an update on the Whittier Narrows Dam.“The Whittier Narrows Dam is a critical source of water for our community,” Napolitano said. “We must take care that it remains stable, secure, and properly maintained.”The Army Corps of Engineers has begun a dam safety modification study that will begin to allow the Corps to upgrade and improve the dam. The study will take 2-3 years.The dam will be upgraded according to the results of the study, and may include extra storage and increased groundwater recharging.# # #
08.19.2011	(Washington, DC) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) has been nominated as one of this year’s recipients of the Charles Dick Medal of Merit by the National Guard Association, in recognition of her contributions to the National Guard at the national and local level. Napolitano has been a long-time supporter of the National Guard, including their YouthChalleNGe program, which provides a path to success and discipline for high-school drop outs who voluntarily apply.“The men and women of the National Guard have achieved remarkable success in serving and protecting our country,” Napolitano said. “I look forward to continuing my work with the National Guard on ensuring America’s continued strength and security.”Napolitano will travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin on August 27 to receive the award and address the association for their 133rd General Conference.
08.18.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined Rep. Joe Baca, State Senator Gloria Negrete McCleod, Assemblywoman Norma Torres, Pomona Mayor Elliott Rothman, members of the Pomona City Council and others in cutting the ribbon on the newly completed overpass which now takes Mission Boulevard over the SR 71 freeway.Since 2005, Napolitano has helped secure $8.38 million in federal funds for the project.“With this new overpass in place, commuters will have quicker travel times, and families living nearby will have safer streets near their homes,” Napolitano said. “I applaud local elected officials and the people of Pomona for working together to secure the funding needed for this critical project.”Following the ceremony, traffic was allowed onto the overpass and the first cars began to cross over.# # #
08.17.2011	DSC09681.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted a free job fair along with the Norwalk Employment Development Department and several other community partners at the Norwalk Arts and Sports Complex. More than 500 job-seekers met with 95 hiring employers, along with free service providers, including free health screenings, free haircuts, resume workshops, job training opportunities, and more. “We must do everything we can to assist the many qualified and hard-working families who are out of work in this economy,” Napolitano said. “This fair is an opportunity for people who are looking for work to meet with hiring employers, get the support they need, and be back on the job and earning a paycheck as soon as possible.” “I just graduated from college and it’s hard for me to get a job,” said Carlton, from Norwalk. “I’m looking for a real job, a career, a legit job. This is a great event, a lot of companies out here – so far so good.” Other partners at the fair included the City of Norwalk, the Southeast Los Angeles County Workforce Investment Board, and the Southeast Area Social Services Funding Authority (SASSFA). Napolitano also discussed “Make it in America,” the Democratic jobs agenda that aims to strengthen U.S. manufacturing and make critical investments in infrastructure, education, small business support, clean energy, and other areas that can provide good-paying jobs. “We must focus on the priorities that created the middle class: good-paying jobs, quality education, cutting-edge research, and solid infrastructure,” Napolitano said. “We have to create more opportunities for people out of work and for the next generation. By making the investments our economy and middle class needs to grow, we can ensure that working families are able to ‘make it in America’ for years to come.” # # #
08.01.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) released the following statement after voting against default bill S. 365, which contains deep cuts to critical programs for working families and seniors and sets the stage for future cuts to services, including Medicare.“This bill makes steep cuts to critical programs that seniors and working families rely on, including possible future cuts to Medicare, in order to protect unnecessary tax breaks and loopholes for oil companies and millionaires.“We should not be balancing our budget on the backs of those least able to bear the burden, especially when the wealthiest among us have not yet had to make a single sacrifice.“In recent days, hundreds of my constituents have called or emailed my office to express their opposition to this bill, and with good reason. It is unfair, unbalanced, and a blow to all of the working people in this country who are already struggling to make ends meet.”# # #
07.30.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) voted in favor of H.R. 2693, a bill that mirrors the legislation that Democrats in the Senate have proposed to raise the debt ceiling and avoid a national default. The vote was largely symbolic, using an artificial set of rules set up by Republican leadership that guaranteed it would fail. The House is expected to receive and vote on the actual Senate bill early next week.“The American people want unity, not political games,” Napolitano said. “This bill was created by Republicans with special rules that guaranteed it would not pass. We are now only days away from default, and we need real compromise instead of continuing to waste precious time.“We must avoid default without damaging Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security. I will vote to protect the best interests of my district and will watch for any ‘poison pills’ that may be inserted into the default prevention deal during the final days. We have to be careful about what may be added to this legislation that could affect the future of the Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security, and the millions of Americans who rely on them.“I also object to the way the Republicans introduced ‘presidential candidate’ Rep. Michele Bachmann on the floor today. We should be doing the people’s business on the floor of the House of Representatives, not campaigning for outside office. This continuing focus on politics when we are days away from the first default on U.S. debt in history is inappropriate.“I urge my Republican colleagues to do the will of the American people and move forward on serious efforts to avoid default. It is time to compromise and prevent a national disaster.”H.R. 2693 was brought to a vote under suspension rules, which means it required a two-thirds vote to pass instead of the usual majority vote. Suspension rules are the same procedures usually used to name post offices or pass other uncontroversial pieces of legislation, and were not used during the previous House vote on preventing national default.The bill voted on today mirrors Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s proposal, which has yet to be voted on in the Senate.# # #
07.30.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) called for a renewed defense of Medicare on the 46th anniversary of the historic program being signed into law.“Medicare has provided critical healthcare, comfort, and peace of mind to millions of seniors over the past 46 years,” Napolitano said. “Before Medicare guaranteed access to health care, seniors often lost their life savings to illness or injury in their later years. After decades of improving quality-of-life for American seniors and their families, it is in an outrage that Medicare has come under attack.“House Republicans have repeatedly threatened to cut Medicare in recent months. They voted to replace Medicare with a voucher system earlier this year, which would increase costs for seniors and put them at the mercy of the private insurance market, and cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security have been proposed in recent debt talks as a way to balance the budget -- even as unnecessary loopholes and tax breaks for oil companies and the wealthy have been protected.“These attacks need to stop. Our seniors did not create this budget mess, and they should not be asked to sacrifice the peace and dignity of their later years in order to clean it up. Medicare has been a source of health and financial stability for seniors and their families for generations, and we must fight to ensure this guarantee is preserved.”In 1964, only 51 percent of Americans over 65 had health care coverage – today, because of Medicare, virtually all seniors can receive care.Medicare has also pulled millions of seniors out of poverty, with the percentage of seniors living below the poverty line moving from almost 30% in 1964 to 7.5% in 2011. Medicare has also contributed to Americans leading longer lives, with average life expectancy rising from 70.2 years in 1964 to 78.2 years today.“Medicare has made tremendous improvements in the lives of American seniors and their families,” Napolitano said. “We have an obligation to preserve and strengthen Medicare’s guarantee for future generations.”BACKGROUND: Medicare, 1952 to the Present https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/History_of_Medicare.pdf# # #
07.29.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) voted against S. 627, the Republican default bill presented by House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), which contains $905 billion in cuts without any increases in revenues and mandates another $1.6 trillion in cuts, a constitutional amendment vote and another debt stand-off within the next few months.“Speaker Boehner’s bill threatens to cut critical programs for working families and seniors in order to protect unnecessary tax breaks and loop holes for oil companies and millionaires,” Napolitano said. “Threatening to cut Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security to pay down the debt at a time when corporate profits are higher than ever is an outrage. We need parity – all of us must feel the pain, not just those who can least afford it.“Republicans are holding our nation’s economy hostage to meet their demands. Defaulting on our debt could mean a lower credit rating, economic damage and even more Americans out of work. The cost of owning a house, filling up a tank of gas, or sending a child to college would all go up at a time when many of our families are already struggling to hold onto their jobs and their homes.“In America, we expect our leaders to put politics aside and work together without threatening a national disaster to get their way. The Republican ‘my way or no way’ attitude must give way to a saner, more objective dialogue to protect those we represent.“This crisis has already shaken the world’s confidence in our country, and forcing a second round of debt talks a few months from now, as this bill does, will only increase this uncertainty and make the problem worse. Real solutions require real compromise, and I urge my Republican colleagues to put responsibility ahead of ideology before it is too late.”The Republican default bill was scheduled for a vote yesterday before being abruptly withdrawn due to lack of support. The version voted on today added a provision that requires the House and the Senate to pass and send the states a balanced budget constitutional amendment within six months or else trigger a national default when spending authority runs out.The bill now goes to the Senate, where Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) has said it will be rejected.# # #
07.27.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) introduced H.R. 2664, the Reauthorization of Water Desalination Act of 2011, which would fund federal research and development projects into desalination, the conversion of seawater into freshwater. “Desalination is another promising source of water, especially for western states, and these programs deserve federal support,” Napolitano said. “If we can continue to perfect the technologies and bring down the cost of producing new water from the ocean, we will have a reliable, drought-proof source of water and a powerful engine for economic growth. The desalination projects previously funded by these programs have delivered new discoveries since they began in 1996, and they will continue to improve desalination if given proper support.”The bill reauthorizes the Desalination Act of 1996, allocating $2 million a year through 2016. Since 1996, projects or studies have been funded in more than half of the 50 states, with 38 projects being funded in California alone.Some of the programs’ discoveries include determining how to dispose of saline wastewater, establishing uniform industry standards for common desalination components, funding “brackish” water projects to desalinate groundwater, discovering how to withdraw seawater from below the seafloor to minimize environmental damage, and developing reverse osmosis membrane pretreatment to improve desalination.# # #
07.27.2011	DSC_0277.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, in advance of Medicare’s 46th anniversary on Saturday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) joined Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Reps. Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), and other Democratic members of Congress in maintaining their efforts to protect Medicare from potential budget cuts. “Medicare has been a critical source of healthcare and support for seniors for the last 46 years,” Napolitano said. “Republicans have threatened to place Medicare on the budget-cut chopping block this Congress time and time again. It is outrageous to threaten to cut critical healthcare services for seniors, many of whom are totally dependent on them for survival, while at the same time preserving unnecessary tax breaks and loopholes for millionaires and billionaires. Our seniors did not create this budget mess, and they should not be asked to sacrifice the peace and dignity of their later years in order to clean it up. Remember that not too long ago, we were asked to have faith and put our Social Security into Wall Street’s hands. Lesson learned – private insurance companies are no different, and they cannot be trusted with Medicare to do the right thing. I join my Democratic colleagues in this battle to protect Medicare for seniors and for future generations.” In April, House Republicans passed Rep. Paul Ryan’s budget plan for 2012, which would change Medicare from a guaranteed care program to a voucher program, raising healthcare costs for seniors by at least $6,000 and placing them at the mercy of the private insurance market in their later years. Last week, House Republicans again attacked Medicare in their “Cut, Cap, and Balance” bill, which reaffirmed the GOP budget and would require the government to reduce expenditures to levels last seen in 1966, the year seniors first began to enter Medicare. This week, the House of Representatives will vote on Speaker John Boehner’s latest Republican bill, which is expected to repeat the same priorities. In 2005, then-President George W. Bush pushed to have Social Security funds invested in the stock market, a move towards privatization that would have proved disastrous during the financial meltdown of 2008. # # #
07.21.2011	DSC_0211.JPG (Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) joined several of her Democratic colleagues in releasing a letter of opposition to H.R. 2497, the HALT (Hinder the Administration’s Legalization Temptation) Act, a bill proposed by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX) which would prohibit President Obama from prioritizing dangerous criminals for deportation over non-criminal immigrants working in local communities. “This is a political attack specifically aimed at the President, and it would tie the hands of our immigration officials and affect the safety of our communities,” Napolitano said. “Focusing our energy on deporting dangerous criminals instead of students and working families is the right thing to do. We are a nation of immigrants, and many of these families have contributed to our country’s success and economy through hard work. They should not be deported while criminals go free. We should be trying to bring this country together, not continuing to divide it.” The HALT Act is specifically directed at President Obama and would expire at the end of his term. The letter was signed by 76 members of Congress, including Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Rep. Mike Honda (D-CA), Rep. Yvette Clark (D-NY), and can be read at https://www.gutierrez.house.gov/images/stories/HALT_Act_letter_complete.pdf. # # #
07.13.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) opposed H.R. 2018, the Clean Water Cooperative Federalism Act, which would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from enforcing critical water standards and protecting the general public.“Strong national water standards are necessary for a clean water supply, especially in California, and they should not be weakened,” Napolitano said. “We receive much of our water from rivers that cross state lines like the Colorado River, and federal standards prevent that water from being polluted before it comes downstream to us. Contaminants in the water can harm children, infants, seniors, and those who suffer from immune system disorders. We cannot afford to lower the water standards we rely on for our health.”The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 239 to 184. It will now move on to the Senate.Napolitano sits on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power in the Natural Resources Committee.Background:· H.R. 2018 limits federal oversight of state clean water plans by undermining two fundamental elements of the Clean Water Act: water quality standards and the protection of waters from the contaminants that can be released by large-scale mining, development, and water resource projects. · These changes would allow upstream states power to weaken their pollution protections, and prevent downstream states from protecting their water supply, their communities, and their economy.· The EPA’s ability to assure state water quality standards without state approval would be undermined– effectively shifting some regulatory power of water, wetlands and mining from the Environmental Protection Agency to the states.· These changes could endanger the rivers, streams and lakes that provide our drinking water and sustain our economy. Millions of jobs in tourism, outdoor recreation, and commercial fisheries depend on clean water and a healthy environment for fish and wildlife. · Regarding water quality standards, the bill would:o Restrict EPA’s ability to revise an existing water quality standard or promulgate a new one, unless the state concurs.o Prohibit EPA from withdrawing approval of a state water quality permitting program (National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System), or from limiting federal financial assistance for the state program even when the State’s program is failing to protect water quality.o Block the EPA from objecting to individual permits that fail to comply with water quality standards. # # #
07.13.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was honored with a “Friends of the National Parks” award by the National Parks Conservation Association for supporting the National Park System and protecting the parks from harm.Tom Kiernan, president of the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA), presented Napolitano with the award at a Capitol Hill ceremony.“I am pleased to receive this award, and to continue working on behalf of our National Parks,” Napolitano said. “Our parks provide tourism jobs and a valuable way to share our country’s history and natural beauty with the next generation.”Since 1919, the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association has been the leading voice of the American people in protecting and enhancing the National Park System.Napolitano sits on the Natural Resources Committee and serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Water and Power. # # #
07.06.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed news that the Obama administration had reversed a decades-old policy and will now send letters of condolence to the families of soldiers who die by suicide.“We have allowed this stigma against suicide to remain in place for far too long,” Napolitano said. “The wounds of recent wars have been mental as often as they have been physical, and the families of soldiers who have died by suicide deserve to have the contributions of their loved one recognized and respected with a presidential condolence letter. I salute the president and his administration for overturning this regressive policy.”Napolitano was the lead Democrat working alongside Rep. Dan Burton to overturn the policy. Last year they introduced a House resolution calling for the families of military servicemembers who have died by suicide to receive recognition, and they sent a formal letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates requesting the change.Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus.Letter to Sec. Gates: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Burton-Napolitano%20Ltr%20to%20DefSec%20Gates%20-%20Condolence%20Resolution.pdf # # #
07.05.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano sent a formal letter to the Pacific Fishery Management Council (PFMC) requesting an evaluation of H.R. 1837 The San Joaquin Water Reliability Act’s potential economic impact on California’s salmon fishing industry. The PFMC is the governing body responsible for managing the health of commercial fisheries in California, Oregon, and Washington, and it was forced to close California’s salmon fishery in 2008 and 2009 to protect collapsing salmon populations. “Over the course of our hearings, not enough information has been requested from the fishing industry,” Napolitano said in the letter. “The Pacific Fishery Management Council is in a unique position to review and provide in detail how H.R. 1837, if enacted, will impact salmon populations, habitat, fisheries management, and fishermen, who are dependent on this iconic resource.”H.R. 1837 has sustained a barrage of criticism in recent weeks from editorial boards and concerned citizens across California as a “big gulp” effort to usurp state water laws, roll back environmental protections, and alter water delivery to favor certain agricultural users.California fishermen have expressed concern that the loss of environmental protections would once again lead to a precipitous decline in the salmon population and a return to 100% unemployment for salmon fishermen.“This radical bill would cause real economic damage and job losses for California fishermen,” Napolitano said. “It overrides our water rights, damages our environment, undercuts decades of agreements, and it almost guarantees the extinction of California’s salmon fishing industry.”Napolitano is the Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Water and Power. Letter to the Pacific Fishery Management Council: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/PFMC_Napolitano%20Letter.pdf Letter of opposition from 12 different fishing industries: https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Salmon%20Letter_McClintock%20Re%20H%20R%20%201837%20%282%29.pdf Background on the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act:•If passed, the new bill would override state law and disrupt or make impossible a number of negotiations Californians are currently involved in to improve their water supply, including the Bay Delta Conservation Plan and the 2009 bipartisan water bill passed by the California legislature.•Pumping from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta kills young salmon as they swim out to sea, contributing to the decline of the salmon population. HR 1837 waives pumping restrictions for the Central Valley Water project and would lead to more die-offs in order to gain more water for junior water rights holders.•The bill harms the environment by rolling back the water contributions that the Central Valley Project makes to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to 1994 levels, ignoring environmental changes in the Delta that have taken place over the last 17 years.•The bill waives environmental impact studies for new water contracts in the Central Valley Project and extends current 25-year contracts without any environmental review for a minimum of 40 years. Because the contracts are exempted from contributing water for the health of the Delta, under current law other Californians will have no choice but to make up the difference when future droughts, climate changes, and environmental needs tighten the available water supply.•The bill turns California’s water rights system upside-down, exempting these same agricultural interests from contributing water to help desperately weakened commercial fisheries and allowing them to use or sell water that would otherwise go to the fragile Delta. This favoritism upends California’s water rights system and reduces supply for other water users who continue to play by the rules.•The purported aim of the bill is to help unemployment in the Central Valley, yet respected California economists Richard Howitt and Jeffrey Michael, as well as researchers at the Pacific Institute, have debunked claims that pumping restrictions have had any major effects on the Central Valley’s economy. Unemployment in the Central Valley has instead been primarily caused by the housing bust and national recession.# # #
06.27.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano called on House Republicans to abandon H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Water Reliability Act. H.R. 1837 has sustained a barrage of criticism in recent weeks from editorial boards and concerned citizens across California as a “big gulp” effort to usurp state water laws, roll back environmental protections, and alter water delivery to favor certain agricultural users.While H.R. 1837 was originally created to boost employment in the San Joaquin Valley, Napolitano cited a recent study from the Pacific Institute verifying that it was not environmental pumping restrictions but the national housing bust and recession which were the cause of the Central Valley’s economic downturn in recent years.“We no longer have any reason to continue consideration of this misguided and destructive piece of legislation,” Napolitano said. “It overrides our water rights, disrupts our negotiations to improve water supply, damages our environment, and kills our fishing industry. Now we learn again that the economic reasoning behind this bill has been completely false from the beginning. We must abandon this dangerous overreach and help the people of California work out their own water solutions. The next round of water wars triggered by this bill will mean a lot of work for lawyers, but not much for anybody else.”The study showed California agriculture posted record revenues in the drought years of 2007, 2008, and 2009, even with current pumping restrictions in place. In the same years, thousands of jobs were lost in construction and other sectors affected by the economic downturn.H.R. 1837 overrides state water and environmental regulations to deliver water to farmers on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley, threatening California’s fragile ecosystem and pushing the costs of environmental protection onto other senior water rights holders.Background:Pacific Institute Report: Impacts of the California Drought from 2007 to 2009: Surprising Outcomes for California’s Agriculture, Energy, and Environmenthttps://www.pacinst.org/reports/california_drought_impacts/index.html Recent Articles:Farm Jobs Lost? Blame Environmentalists! (Or Not) - New York Times How State's Farmers Weathered Drought - San Francisco Chronicle Study Devalues California Drought Impact - Contra Costa Times Drought Study Refutes Criticism of Environmental Measures - Bakersfield CalifornianCaliforniaDrought Drove Up Energy Costs - Los Angeles TimesMercury News Editorial: Big water grab shows disregard for Delta healthSacramento Bee Editorial: House should pull the plug on water grabSan Francisco Chronicle Editorial: Wading into the water warSan Francisco Chronicle - Op-Ed: Federal bill seeks to override state water law H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act:· If passed, the new bill would override state law and disrupt or make impossible a number of negotiations Californians are currently involved in to improve their water supply, including the Bay Delta Conservation Plan and the 2009 bipartisan water bill passed by the California legislature.· The bill harms the environment by rolling back the water contributions that the Central Valley Project makes to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to 1994 levels, ignoring environmental changes in the Delta that have taken place over the last 17 years.· The bill waives environmental impact studies for new water contracts in the Central Valley Project and extends current 25-year contracts without any environmental review for a minimum of 40 years. Because the contracts are exempted from contributing water for the health of the Delta, under current law other Californians will have no choice but to make up the difference when future droughts, climate changes, and environmental needs tighten the available water supply.· The bill turns California’s water rights system upside-down, exempting these same agricultural interests from contributing water to help desperately weakened commercial fisheries and allowing them to use or sell water that would otherwise go to the fragile Delta. This favoritism upends California’s water rights system and reduces supply for other water users who continue to play by the rules.· The purported aim of the bill is to help unemployment in the Central Valley, yet respected California economists Richard Howitt and Jeffrey Michael, now joined by the Pacific Institute, have debunked claims that pumping restrictions have had any major effects on the Central Valley’s economy. Unemployment in the Central Valley has instead been primarily caused by the housing bust and national recession. # # #
06.22.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano made the following statement on President Obama’s announcement that troop withdrawals will begin in Afghanistan:“This troop withdrawal means we can finally begin welcoming our soldiers home to their families. We must be ready to support our fighting men and women and ensure they have the services, job training, and medical care they need to return to civilian life. It is critical for our economy and our country that we continue to bring our troops home. The funds being sent abroad are needed here in the U.S. to invest in job creation and pay down the debt.”# # #
06.15.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, HR 470, the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2011, with bipartisan support from Rep. Grace F. Napolitano and Rep. Joe Heck, was reported favorably out of the Committee on Natural Resources and moved closer to receiving a vote in the House of Representatives. The bill reauthorizes the Hoover Dam through the next fifty years and sets aside 5 percent of its power for use by new entities, including Native American tribes.“The re-authorization of the Hoover Dam has been a two-year, bipartisan effort that will allow millions of customers to rely on the dam’s inexpensive, renewable energy for another fifty years,” Napolitano said. “At no cost to the tax payer, it also sets aside power for use by Native American tribes, rural electric cooperatives, irrigation districts, and other entities for the first time. Because of its importance for the people of California, Nevada, and Arizona, we trust this legislation will be given priority and be signed into law.”Congressman Heck said, “The clean, affordable power generated at Hoover Dam is very important to my home state of Nevada and the more than 29 million residents across Nevada, Arizona, and California that benefit from Hoover power. Hoover Dam is located in my district, and the power generated there is critical to Southern Nevada’s economy, businesses, and consumers. The power is clean and affordable, but today we are taking an important step toward making it stable.”Last year, the reauthorization bill passed the House of Representatives but did not clear the Senate. Background:Hoover Dam power allocations for state utilities and municipalities were last authorized in 1984, and are set to expire in 2017. HR 470 bill allows the Hoover Dam to continue providing power through the year 2067. 23 million people in California, Nevada, and Arizona rely on the Dam for powerReauthorizing Hoover power allocations early is necessary for electric and water utilities to meet future planning requirements, ensure effective regional transmission planning, and provide reliable water deliveries.In previous authorizations, Native American tribes were not eligible to receive power allocations from the Hoover Dam. This latest authorization will allow them new access to 5% of the dam’s power, along with irrigation districts, military installations, municipal agencies, and other entities that were previously unable to use power generated by the dam.HR 470 was developed as a consensus bi-partisan plan to ensure the continued availability of and reliability of Hoover power to the citizens of Nevada, California and Arizona.
06.13.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, a Water and Power Subcommittee hearing called by Rep. Grace F. Napolitano exposed critical flaws in HR 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, a radical Republican water bill which would usurp California’s water laws, roll back California’s environmental protections, overturn California’s water rights system to the benefit of a few powerful agricultural users, and set precedent for litigation against other states’ water rights. “This radical legislation threatens California’s ability to manage its own water and protect its environment,” Napolitano said. “Its provisions would damage our environment, undercut decades of agreements and ongoing negotiations to improve our water supply, and almost guarantee the extinction of California’s salmon industry and damage our economy. By allowing a select group of agricultural users to bypass state environmental regulations, this bill turns our state water rights system upside-down and pushes the costs of future droughts, climate changes, and environmental needs onto the backs of water users and taxpayers across the state.” HR 1837 overrides state water and environmental regulations, threatening California’s fragile ecosystem and pushing the cost of environmental protection onto senior water rights holders. Members of the subcommittee heard testimony from California salmon fisherman Dave Bitts, whose industry experienced 100% unemployment in 2008 and 2009 from lack of salmon and lost millions in revenue. Pumping from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta kills young salmon as they swim out to sea, contributing to the decline of the salmon population. HR 1837 waives pumping restrictions for the Central Valley Water project and would lead to more die-offs in order to gain more water for junior water rights holders. “Any solution to California’s water and environmental needs affects the rest of the West,” said Tony Willardson, a representative from the Western States Water Council. “We wish to reemphasize the States are primarily responsible for the management of their water resources.” “This misguided and destructive effort could trigger another round of water wars,” Napolitano said. “We must hear from all of the Californians who share our water supply and improve our water supply to the benefit of all of California.”Background on the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act:• If passed, the new bill would override state law and disrupt or make impossible a number of negotiations Californians are currently involved in to improve their water supply, including the Bay Delta Conservation Plan and the 2009 bipartisan water bill passed by the California legislature.• The bill harms the environment by rolling back the water contributions that the Central Valley Project makes to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to 1994 levels, ignoring environmental changes in the Delta and additional endangered species that have become threatened in the intervening 17 years.• The bill waives environmental impact studies for new water contracts in the Central Valley Project and extends current 25-year contracts without any environmental review for a minimum of 40 years. Because the contracts are exempted from contributing water for the health of the Delta, under current law other Californians will have no choice but to make up the difference when future droughts, climate changes, and environmental needs tighten the available water supply.• The bill turns California’s water rights system upside-down, exempting these same agricultural interests from contributing water to help desperately weakened commercial fisheries and allowing them to use or sell water that would otherwise go to the fragile Delta. This favoritism upends California’s water rights system and reduces supply for other water users who continue to play by the rules.• The purported reason for the bill is to help unemployment in the Central Valley, yet respected California economists Richard Howitt and Jeffrey Michael have debunked claims that pumping restrictions have had any major effects on the Central Valley’s economy, and the bulk of unemployment is due to the bust in the housing market.Documents:Letter of opposition from leaders of the California State Legislature, (Speaker John Perez, Senate President Pro Tempore Darrell Steinberg, Senate Natural Resources and Water Chair Fran Pavley, Assembly Water, Parks, and Wildlife Chair Jared Huffman, and Assembly Natural Resources Chair Wes Chesbro):“H.R. 1837 undermines judicial agreements, erodes long-standing water law principles, usurps California’s sovereignty, and lays waste to any hope of progress in the Delta.”https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Letter%20from%20CA%20State%20Legislature.pdfEditorial from the Contra Costa Times:“[This is] unbalanced legislation that would undermine key environmental protections for the Delta and flush the work of many dedicated individuals down the drain.”https://www.contracostatimes.com/opinion/ci_18248860Letter of opposition from 12 different fishing industries:“There are no words strong enough to describe the complete devastation this bill would bring to the Central Valley salmon runs and those who depend on them for their livelihoods, recreation and food sources.”https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Salmon%20Letter_McClintock%20Re%20H%20R%20%201837%20%282%29.pdfLetter of opposition from Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar:“This legislation would undo ongoing broad-based collaborative initiatives that have been underway for many years to solve some of California’s most significant water issues.”https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/salazar%20letter%20HR%201837.pdf# # #
06.02.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, the House Subcommittee on Water and Power held a hearing on H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, which would usurp California’s water laws, roll back California’s environmental protections, and alter water distribution to favor certain agricultural users.“This bill would radically change the way we balance water and the environment in California,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, ranking member on the Subcommittee on Water and Power. “New federal rules would override state law, exempting certain agricultural water users from following environmental restrictions or from having to contribute to the health of our natural water sources, as other users do. Creating this special privilege would push the costs of climate change and environmental damage onto all the other water users across the state.“The new rules would also undercut ongoing negotiations within California, making it difficult or impossible for our state to move forward with necessary improvements for our water supply. The radical changes contained in this bill would ultimately benefit a small group of agricultural users while causing chaos for the rest of California.“I am also troubled by the exclusionary way this bill is being drafted and pushed forward. This bill’s radical changes would affect all of California’s water users, including fishermen, Delta farmers, urban communities, and many others, none of whom were invited to appear as witnesses today. It is unacceptable to exclude these Californians while making decisions about their water supply in Washington, D.C.”The Democratic Minority on the Subcommittee has requested an additional hearing to allow for the participation of more stakeholders.Background on the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act:• The bill would alter the Central Valley Project Improvement Act, which was created in 1992 after years of negotiations between water users from across California. Since that bill’s enactment, agricultural revenues and water exports from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta have increased.• As a federal law, the bill would supersede California’s water rights system and would disrupt or make impossible a number of negotiations Californians are currently involved in to improve their water supply, including the Bay Delta Conservation Plan and the 2009 bipartisan water bill passed by the California legislature.• The bill harms the environment by capping the water contributions that the Central Valley Project makes to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta at 1994 levels, ignoring environmental changes in the Delta and additional endangered species that have become threatened in the intervening 17 years. It waives environmental impact studies for water contracts and extends them for 40 years, ensuring that water agreements will not have to adjust to climate change or their impacts on the environment.• The bill turns California’s water rights system upside-down, overturning decades of legal precedent and sovereignty to give special priority to certain agricultural users on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley. These users would also have lower requirements for contributing water for the protection of the California Bay-Delta Ecosystem, creating a privileged flow of water for use or sale.Documents:Letter of opposition from Members of California State Legislature:“H.R. 1837 undermines judicial agreements, erodes long-standing water law principles, usurps California’s sovereignty, and lays waste to any hope of progress in the Delta.”https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Letter%20from%20CA%20State%20Legislature.pdfLetter of opposition from 12 different fishing industries:“There are no words strong enough to describe the complete devastation this bill would bring to the Central Valley salmon runs and those who depend on them for their livelihoods, recreation and food sources.” https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/Salmon%20Letter_McClintock%20Re%20H%20R%20%201837%20%282%29.pdfLetter of opposition from Department of the Interior Secretary Ken Salazar:“This legislation would undo ongoing broad-based collaborative intiatives that have been underway for many years to solve some of California’s most significant water issues.”https://napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/documents/salazar%20letter%20HR%201837.pdf# # #
06.01.2011	Throughout May, the Congressional Mental Health Caucus educated members of congress and their staff on mental health issues as part of awareness-raising efforts taking place across the country for National May Mental Health Awareness Month.“Mental health affects the well-being of our families, the strength of our military, and the growth of our economy,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. “It is a critical issue that has been held back by stigma for far too long. By continuing to educate our fellow members of congress, we join others across the country in breaking this silence and supporting a better system for mental health.”“It is fitting that we mark Mental Health Month in May, as we celebrate Memorial Day and our Armed Forces,” said fellow Co-Chair Rep. Tim Murphy. “As a growing number of servicemen and women return from duty with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI), these are becoming the invisible wounds of war. I’m extremely proud Congress was able to pass an amendment to last week’s Defense Authorization bill for 2012 that would greatly improve access to care for our soldiers suffering from PTSD and TBI. The Mental Health Caucus has taken great strides to educate Congress and the public about the critical importance of properly caring for mental illness, and I look forward to working with co-chair Napolitano to ensure our military and all Americans are able get the care they need.”On May 12, the Caucus hosted a briefing with top military officials and mental health professionals to educate congressional members and staff on the latest mental health issues facing the armed services, including post-traumatic stress, traumatic brain injury, and suicide prevention.On May 24, the Caucus organized a visit to Bethesda Naval Hospital’s Traumatic Brain Injury Unit, where participants learned from doctors and service members about the brain injuries that have been diagnosed in more than 30,000 veterans in 2010 alone.On May 26, the Caucus hosted a comprehensive “Mental Health First Aid” workshop, which taught participants the warning signs of mental illness, and explained what mental illness is like for those suffering and what we can do to help them.“These are conversations we should be having every day, not just during Mental Health Awareness Month,” Napolitano said. “All of our families are touched in some way, and by talking about mental health we can finally get the issue out in the open and begin finding the necessary solutions.”Background:· May is National Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when groups across the country hold rallies and events to draw attention to mental health.· One out of four Americans suffers from a mental health issue (2005 Harvard Study)· State mental health programs were cut nationally by 4 percent in 2009, 5 percent in 2010, and are estimated to be cut by more than 8% in 2011 (Stateline.org July 19 2010)· Suicide is the 3rd leading cause of death for youth ages 15-24 (National Institute of Mental Health report)· More than 90 percent of people who die from suicide have a diagnosable mental disorder, commonly a depressive disorder or a substance-abuse disorder (American Foundation for Suicide Prevention)· 70% of adolescents with mental health problems do not receive care (Journal of Adolescent Health, volume 38)· Mental disorders cost the U.S. economy $193 billion in lost earnings each year (American Journal of Psychiatry, May 2008)National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK# # #
05.31.2011	(Washington, DC) Throughout the month of May, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held five free, public mental health workshops in her district to help reduce stigma and raise awareness as part of National May Mental Health Awareness Month. The events were organized with the assistance of the 38th District Mental Health Consortium, a group of local experts, activists, and physicians who work to improve local mental health services and advise Napolitano on mental health.“Mental health affects millions of Americans, regardless of race, creed or color,” Napolitano said. “For too long, stigma has made it extremely difficult to discuss mental health. These workshops help by getting the facts out in the open, and by showing families what resources they can use to help their loved ones.”The workshops were offered in East Los Angeles, Norwalk, Hacienda Heights, Pomona, and at Rio Hondo College. Presenters Dr. Luis Garcia and Dr. Panayiota Courelli helped correct common misperceptions about mental health, and explained what local resources are available to help. Two of the workshops were conducted in Spanish.“I learned it’s ok to have negative feelings, but you need to do something to overcome those feelings,” said Gloria Duran, of Norwalk. “And you don’t have to do it alone.”“I never really thought of mental health as such an important issue before,” said Ide Sacco, of Hacienda Heights. “I wish I knew about it sooner.”In Washington, D.C., Napolitano also helped raised awareness for members of congress and their staff at a series of events hosted by the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, which she co-chairs. These included a briefing with top military officials and mental health professionals on the latest mental health issues facing troops and veterans, a trip to Bethesda Naval Hospital’s Traumatic Brain Injury Unit to learn about how brain injuries affect veterans, and a “Mental Health First Aid” workshop, which taught participants the warning signs of mental illness and what they can do to help.“These are conversations we should be having every day, not just during Mental Health Awareness Month,” Napolitano said. “All of our families are touched in some way, and by talking about mental health, we can learn that we are not alone and help is available.”Background:• May is National Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when groups across the country hold rallies and events to draw attention to mental health.• One out of four Americans suffers from a mental health issue (2005 Harvard Study)• State mental health programs were cut nationally by 4 percent in 2009, 5 percent in 2010, and are estimated to be cut by more than 8% in 2011 (Stateline.org July 19 2010)• Suicide is the 3rd leading cause of death for youth ages 15-24 (National Institute of Mental Health report)• More than 90 percent of people who die from suicide have a diagnosable mental disorder, commonly a depressive disorder or a substance-abuse disorder (American Foundation for Suicide Prevention)• 70% of adolescents with mental health problems do not receive care (Journal of Adolescent Health, volume 38)• Mental disorders cost the U.S. economy $193 billion in lost earnings each year (American Journal of Psychiatry, May 2008)National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK # # #
05.26.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, as part of National May Mental Health Awareness Month, the Congressional Mental Health Caucus hosted a “Mental Health First-Aid” workshop for members of congress and their staff in Washington, D.C. The comprehensive, four-hour session taught participants the warning signs of mental illness and gave them an overview of what those suffering from mental illness experience and how they can be helped.“Mental health is the issue we do not see, we do not hear, and we do not talk about, because of the stigma,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. “We often ignore it politically, and even personally sometimes. This attitude needs to change. Mental health is critical for our economy, the welfare of our soldiers and family members, and the future of our country.”“Education is the best weapon against stigma,” said Rep. Pete Stark, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Health on the Committee of Ways and Means, in a written statement. “One of the reasons mental health disorders can be so challenging to handle is because the illness often prevents the person from understanding they need help. I know from dealing with situations in my own office how upsetting it can be, for my staff and my constituents both, when we don’t understand what someone needs or how we can help. Knowing how to recognize the signs of mental illness and how best to respond are critical to helping us provide the kind of service our constituents deserve.”The information was presented by the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare. Linda Rosenberg, President and CEO, and Bryan Gibb, Director of Public Education, explained how to recognize the most common mental health issues, including anxiety, depression, and psychosis, and how to direct those that need help to care if those issues are detected.“People may know CPR or the Heimlich Maneuver, but the truth is they are more likely to come across someone in an emotional crisis than someone having a heart attack. Mental Health First Aid emphasizes that mental illnesses are real, common, and treatable, and that help is available,” Rosenberg said. Background:· May is National Mental Health Awareness Month, a time when groups across the country hold rallies and events to draw attention to mental health. Today’s workshop was the third event held by the Mental Health Caucus this month, in addition to a briefing on mental health issues for veterans and their families, and a tour of the National Naval Medical Center’s traumatic brain injury unit.· One out of four Americans suffers from a mental health issue (2005 Harvard Study)· State mental health programs were cut nationally by 4 percent in 2009, 5 percent in 2010, and are estimated to be cut by more than 8% in 2011 (Stateline.org July 19 2010)· Suicide is the 3rd leading cause of death for youth ages 15-24 (National Institute of Mental Health report)· More than 90 percent of people who die from suicide have a diagnosable mental disorder, commonly a depressive disorder or a substance-abuse disorder (American Foundation for Suicide Prevention)· 70% of adolescents with mental health problems do not receive care (Journal of Adolescent Health, volume 38)· Mental disorders cost the U.S. economy $193 billion in lost earnings each year (American Journal of Psychiatry, May 2008) # # #
05.24.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, toured the National Naval Medical Center’s Traumatic Brain Injury Unit with a group of staffers from several congressional offices to learn from doctors and service members about new forms of brain injuries affecting a growing number of our soldiers and veterans.On the tour were staffers representing the offices of Reps. Lois Capps, Rush Holt, Dan Lipinski, Lucille Roybal-Allard, and Pete Stark.“Here we can see what we only hear about, and begin to understand what these men and women are going through,” Napolitano said. “Traumatic brain injuries caused by head wounds and explosions have severe consequences for service members and their families. Many of our returning heroes lose their homes and livelihoods, which is deplorable, because they put their lives on the line for us. This is a critical issue in our own backyard, and we need to give our veterans every opportunity to lead full lives.”Since 2000, approximately 200,000 members of the armed forces have been diagnosed with traumatic brain injury (TBI). The number of cases of TBI has grown each year because of roadside bombs used in Iraq and Afghanistan, with 30,703 service members diagnosed in 2010.“These are the invisible wounds of war,” said Captain John Ralph, Navy Psychologist and Director of Mental Health at the National Naval Medical Center. “The effects are very prevalent, much more so than in the past.”The tour included the National Intrepid Center of Excellence, a new facility at the National Naval Medical Center, where medical professionals can use the latest therapies to treat TBI and psychological health issues for service members and their families. Facilities include the latest brain imaging technology and virtual reality equipment for re-enactment therapy.“We provide very high quality care here,” said Rear Admiral Matthew Nathan, Commander of the National Naval Medical Center. “The question is, how can we continue that care once the service member leaves this cocoon and returns home?”The Mental Health Caucus organized the trip as part of Mental Health Awareness Month. This Thursday, May 26, in room 2168 of the Rayburn House Office Building at 9:00 A.M., the Caucus will be hosting a Mental Health First Aid workshop, to educate staffers on mental health issues and the importance of services for those who are mentally ill.National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK
05.20.2011	This month, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano’s 38th District Mental Health Consortium held 3 free mental health workshops in East Los Angeles, Pomona, and Rio Hondo College as part of National Mental Health Awareness Month. The workshops educated the public about the warning signs of mental health issues, connected people with available mental health resources, and encouraged them not to allow stigma to prevent them from seeking help. Next week, 2 more workshops will be held in Norwalk and Hacienda Heights.“It helped me think about my kids, to understand their behavior and how to talk to them,” said Claudia Bedolla of Pomona. “I see mental health differently now. It’s not necessarily someone acting or feeling crazy, but it can also be something as small as having negative thoughts. And it’s ok to ask for help.”On Wednesday, May 25, another free workshop will be held at the Norwalk Senior Center at 1404 San Antonio Drive from 10:00 AM to 11:00 AM. The final workshop will be held at the Steinmetz Senior Center at 1545 Stimson Ave in Hacienda Heights from 11:00 AM to 12:00 PM on Thursday, May 26.Mental health issues affect approximately one out of five Americans, but most never receive proper treatment. Warning signs include withdrawing from friends and family, dramatic changes in eating or sleeping habits, abuse of drugs or alcohol, and thoughts of suicide, among others.The 38th District Mental Health Consortium is a group of local experts, activists, and physicians Napolitano has assembled to strengthen mental health services in her district and advise her on federal legislation.National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK
05.12.2011	(Washington, DC) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano and Rep. Tim Murphy of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus hosted military mental health officials and family members to update congressional members and staff on mental health issues in the armed forces, including traumatic brain injuries, suicide prevention, post-traumatic stress, and stigma against seeking treatment. “Our soldiers have earned the right to mental health care from their service to our country, and we must ensure they get the assistance they need,” Napolitano said. “Combat in Iraq and Afghanistan often causes mental wounds that are just as serious as physical ones. When our veterans finally return home, these invisible injuries can have a devastating effect on them and their families.” “Out of 2 million American combat soldiers deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan over the past ten years, approximately 380,000 have come home with traumatic brain injury,” Murphy said. “In addition, 27 per cent of service members returning from war have demonstrated signs of depression or have reported symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. These are the signature wounds of the War on Terror. It is critically important that our federally elected officials are educated on these growing figures, and the appropriate ways to care for the veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan and their families.” Since October of 2001, more than 2,100 military service members have died from suicide. “We have done a lot, but we have not done enough,” said Gen. Peter Chiarelli, Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army. “The stigma against mental health in the military is still everywhere. Until we are willing to take on that stigma, we will never get a chance to heal.” “When I came back, the physical problems paled in comparison to the mental problems I had to deal with,” said Col. Gregory Gadson, Director of the U.S. Army Wounded Warrior Program and a bomb blast survivor who now walks with the use of prosthetic limbs. “The entire family has to heal, not just the soldier.” “When my husband first came home, I could see it in his eyes that he was not the same person,” said Sheri Hall, a military spouse. “He did not want to go get help because it might jeopardize his career.” “Our family still struggles daily with the psychological wounds,” said Regina Hill, a military spouse. “When people thank my husband for his service, I just wish they’d stop and recognize the sacrifice of our children. My children are now caregivers first, and kids second.” “Military service members and their families have earned the right to effective mental health services,” Napolitano said. “We owe them the healing and support they need to return their lives to some semblance of normalcy.” National Mental Health Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK ###
05.09.2011	(Santa Fe Springs, CA) On Saturday, May 7, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored 21 women who had been nominated by volunteer organizations for exemplary service as the 2011 “Women of the Year” at a ceremony at Santa Fe Springs Town Center Hall in Santa Fe Springs. “These remarkable women work tirelessly to improve our community through their volunteering,” Napolitano said. “They rarely receive acknowledgment for time put in behind the scenes, but their impact is deeply felt by all of us who are helped by their efforts. This award is a way to express our gratitude and say thank you to these outstanding women.” “I’m honored to be recognized among such extraordinary women,” said Mia St. John, former female world champion boxer and mental health activist who was the keynote speaker at the event. “Their hard work and dedication to others truly is an inspiration.” “I am actually speechless for the first time in my life,” said Monica Malooly, who was nominated by St. Joseph’s Elementary School in Pomona. “I feel honored, blessed, and so proud to be part of my community.” Each woman had their name submitted by their volunteer organization or community group which felt their contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked each woman personally. The 2011 Women of the Year: Reverend Jan Chase, City of Pomona – Pomona Belen Chavez, Pio Pico Women’s Club – Pico Rivera Marilyn Curtis, Fost Grandparent Program/SYCRCC – Norwalk Jazmin Garcia, East Los Angeles Residents Association – East Los Angeles Mary Eva Gomez, St. Hilary Church – Pico Rivera Marian Guerrero, LA CADA – Santa Fe Springs Irma Hernandez, Happy Years Senior Club – Montebello Lihua Huang-Brawley, Fo Guang Shan Hsi Lai Temple – Hacienda Heights Yumei Lu, Buddha’s Light Hsi Lai School – Hacienda Heights Monica Malooly, St. Joseph Elementary School – Pomona Patricia Martin, Norwalk Presbyterian Women – Norwalk Rocio Ortega, Garfield High School Army JROTC – East Los Angeles Marie Osenenko, Silver Years Club – Montebello Laura Ramirez, Eastmont Community Center – East Los Angeles Mary Sabin, Department of Parks and Recreation – Pico Rivera Irma Schub, Greater La Puente Valley Meals on Wheels – City of Industry Rosemary Shannon, Soroptimist International of Norwalk Inc. – Norwalk Suzana Tapia, City of Pico Rivera – Pico Rivera Ana Valencia, Norwalk Lions Club – Norwalk Dede Vidales, Garfield Alumni Foundation Inc. – Montebello Angelina Waites, Palomares Community Center – Pomona # # #
05.02.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement in response to the news of the death of Osama Bin Laden:“This is a great day for America and the free world. Justice has been done for those who lost loved ones on 9/11 and for the millions of Americans who saw our country viciously attacked that day. The death of Osama Bin Laden is the most significant achievement to date in our battle against Al Queda, but it is not the end. We must continue to be vigilant and protect our country against the threat of terrorism.”(###)
04.26.2011	folders 048.jpg (Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano congratulated mental health advocate and Los Angeles Laker Ron Artest on being awarded the J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award. "Ron Artest has been a hero and trailblazer for mental health," Napolitano said. "Mental health is an issue that too often goes ignored, but Ron has helped bring it out in the open. By being brave enough to speak out, he has helped reduce the stigma surrounding mental health for the millions of Americans who are too ashamed or embarrassed to seek help. By educating students, raffling his championship ring, acting through his charity Xcel University, and visiting Washington D.C. to help launch the Mental Health in Schools Act, Ron has shown that seeking help can be a form of strength. I and countless other Americans thank him for his courage, and congratulate him on being recognized with the J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award." The J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award is given annually by the National Basketball Association to the player who shows the most outstanding service and dedication to the community. Napolitano reached out to Ron Artest in 2010 to help educate school children in her district about mental health after he showed that it is ok to seek help by acknowledging his psychologist after the NBA championship game. Since that time, he has visited two schools with Napolitano to talk about mental health, including trips to Eastmont Intermediate School in Montebello and Los Alisos Middle School in Norwalk, and traveled to Washington, D.C. to help Napolitano launch the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would increase available mental health services for children. Napolitano is the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. Learn more about the Mental Health in Schools Act (###)
04.18.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, announced a series of events the Caucus will be hosting in May to educate lawmakers and the public as part of May Mental Health Month.“Mental health is a critical issue that demands our attention,” said Napolitano said. “During May Mental Health month, we will be briefing members of Congress in Washington, D.C. as a way to support the activists and local groups raising awareness in communities across the country.”On May 12, the Caucus will co-host Military Mental Health Day with the Department of Defense, featuring a line-up of military mental health experts to discuss post-traumatic stress, traumatic brain injury, suicide prevention, and other mental health issues currently facing the military.On May 24, the Caucus will host a tour for members of Congress to the Traumatic Brain Injury Unit of Bethesda Hospital, where they will be able to see and experience first-hand the importance of rehabilitating individuals with brain injuries.On May 26, the Caucus will co-host a Mental Health First Aid Educational Session with the National Council for Community Behavioral Healthcare, to teach Representatives and staffers what to do in a mental health crisis situation and illustrate the mental health issues that affect many Americans.On April 8, Rep. Napolitano submitted House Resolution 214, asking the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize May as Mental Health Month. Many organizations hold events across the country in May to raise awareness about mental health.(###)
04.15.2011	(Washington, D.C.) - Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against the Republican budget plan for fiscal year 2011, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives, and released the following statement:“This Republican budget would hurt working families and eliminate the investments we need to create jobs. It would replace Medicare with a voucher system, increasing the costs and risks of health care for seniors. It would also reduce Medicaid, which provides medical services for millions of seniors and lower-income families. Pell grants, which make it possible for many of our children to go to college, would be cut almost in half. In Los Angeles County, where efficient transportation is critical for our economy, transportation cuts would limit public transit, undermine railroad safety, and eliminate thousands of jobs in construction that rely on building and maintaining our roadways.“This same budget includes a trillion dollars in tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans, and keeps tax breaks in place for companies that move jobs overseas. To end Medicare and reduce social services while providing benefits for those who are already prosperous would be unfair, unjust, and bad for the economy.“We are in a recession. What we need are investments that create jobs and provide opportunities, not another set of burdens for struggling families. Democrats have proposed several alternatives that would reduce the deficit and keep critical economic investments intact. Unfortunately, the Republican budget plan that passed today is not a ‘path to prosperity’ but a road to ruin. I urge the Senate to reject this bill and take up a budget that benefits all of America.”
04.11.2011	(Washington D.C.)- On Saturday, April 9, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held a ceremony honoring the winners of the 2011 38th Congressional District Art Contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” at the Hsi Lai Temple in Hacienda Heights.Napolitano was not able to attend the ceremony because of voting in Washington, D.C., but she was able to view the works of art and sent her congratulations to the young art students in the competition.“Our area has a tremendous number of talented young artists,” Napolitano said. “We need to continue to give these promising youngsters academic programs and scholarships to help them succeed. I congratulate our students and I am proud to have their artwork represent our district.”Kevin Shen of Los Altos High School won first place with his work “Beautiful,” which he said was inspired by different ideas about beauty.“I started thinking about the different cultures,” Shen said, “and I wanted show how each culture has its own beauty.”For the next year, Shen’s work will hang in the halls of Congress alongside other winning works of art from across the country.Janet Flores of Montebello High School won second place with a still-life, “My Whole World,” and Teresa Jeanne La Brecque of El Rancho High School won third place with “Christina Taylor-Green,” a portrait of the young girl who was slain in the tragic shooting in Tucson, Arizona.“It was very inspiring to me that at her age she wanted to learn and get involved in government,” Flores said. “I wanted to take an actual event that was tragic in our society and be able to put it on canvas to show the beauty of an individual.”Winners:First place: Kevin Shen, Los Altos High School, “Beautiful.”Second place: Janet Flores, Montebello High School, “My Whole World.”Third place: Teresa Jeanne La Brecque, El Rancho High School, “Christina Taylor-Green.”Judges’ Choice: Erwin Arechiga, El Rancho High School, “Natural Beauty.”Judges’ Choice: Michael Baltierra, Village Academy, “Forbidden City.”Judges’ Choice: David Thai, Los Altos High School, “Mark Hoppus.”Honorable Mention: Winnie Huang, Los Altos High School, “Imagination Explode.”Honorable Mention: Jonathan Garcia, Garey High School, “Midnight Snack.”Honorable Mention: Alejandra Nacar, Montebello High School, “Self Portrait.”Honorable Mention: Dennis Balmaceda, Garey High School, “Blue Birds.”Honorable Mention: Ruby Mejia, Montebello High School, “Self Portrait.”Honorable Mention: Ashley Solis, La Puente High School, “Midnight Sky.”The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of the participating Congressional Districts, and their artwork is put on display for a year at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher.PHOTOS:A gallery of images can be found at www.facebook.com/RepGraceNapolitano. High-res images can be found below:Picture of Ceremony: www.napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/ceremony.jpgFROM LEFT: Jay Chen, Board President for Hacienda La-Puente School District, Teresa Jeanne La Brecque, Rep. Napolitano District Director Ben Cardenas, the Venerable Miao Hsi of the Hsi Lai Temple, Kevin Shen, Janet FloresFirst place: www.napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/1st_Place.JPGSecond place: www.napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/2nd_Place.JPGThird Place: www.napolitano.house.gov/sites/napolitano.house.gov/files/images/3rd_Place.JPG(###)
04.07.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement against the cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, veterans, and other critical services included in the GOP budget unveiled by House Republicans on Wednesday:“We are in a recession. What our economy needs is investments that create jobs and provide opportunities for the next generation. What this budget gives us is yet another set of burdens for families who are already struggling. We cannot enact a budget that shreds the safety net and sends more families and seniors into poverty. “This budget would be disastrous for seniors, students, veterans, and people below the poverty line. It replaces Medicare with a voucher program that shifts health care costs to seniors. It also undermines Medicaid, which allows low-income seniors to stay in nursing homes and provides life-saving health care for our very poorest families. It slashes funding for Pell Grants, making it more difficult for millions of students to attend college. And it cuts support for homeless veterans, who have already made tremendous sacrifices for our country.“At the same time, this budget includes permanent tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans, cuts that would add one trillion dollars to the deficit. It keeps billions of dollars in subsidies in place for oil companies that are already among the most profitable in the world, and it protects corporate tax breaks for U.S. companies that move jobs overseas. It is unfair and unjust to ask the most vulnerable among us to make sacrifices while allowing the most prosperous to get a free ride.”
04.04.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed news that mental health advocate and Los Angeles Laker Ron Artest had been nominated for the J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award“Ron Artest has been a hero for mental health. No one else has been as outspoken about the road to recovery and the importance of seeking assistance. He has been a remarkable role model for adults, but his example is especially powerful for the children who look up to him. I hope that others follow. The sad fact is many people still hide away what they are feeling because of the stigma associated with mental health. I hope that Ron continues to reduce this stigma and encourage people to seek help through his actions and his foundation, Xcel University. Congratulations to Ron on his nomination for this well-deserved honor.”The J. Walter Kennedy Citizenship Award is given annually by the National Basketball Association to the player who shows the most outstanding service and dedication to the community.Ron Artest opened up to fans and the world after the 2010 championship game when he thanked his psychologist for helping him prepare for the victory. Since that time, he has visited schools to talk about mental health, including trips with Napolitano to Eastmont Intermediate School in Montebello and Los Alisos Middle School in Norwalk, raffled off his first championship ring to benefit mental health, donated funds through his charity Xcel University, and traveled to Washington, D.C. to help Napolitano launch the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would increase available mental health services for children.Napolitano is the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus.
03.15.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today at a hearing for the Subcommittee on Water and Power, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano supported funding requests from the country’s four Power Marketing Administrations and welcomed new efforts to bring additional energy from wind power to California from Washington and Oregon. “I know that representatives from the Pacific Northwest are actively looking for ways to develop renewable energy while balancing their hydropower resources and the integrity of the Bonneville Power Authority grid,” Napolitano said. “As a member of the California delegation, I welcome these efforts and hope to see more energy from wind powering our homes and businesses.” More than half of the wind power generated in the Pacific Northwest region goes to California. Napolitano also supported the funding requests made by the Power Marketing Administrations to repair aging infrastructure and develop the new capacity needed to carry renewable energy on their grids. The four Power Marketing Administrations (Bonneville Power Administration, Western Area Power Administration, Southwestern Power Administration, and Southeastern Power Administration) are self-funded and will eventually repay their funding requests from their own revenues. “The Power Marketing Administrations are doing well,” Napolitano said. “They have been partners with cities, tribes, and customers in meeting environmental protections. They have made repairs to outdated infrastructure and added new capacity to convey renewable energy. They have met these standards and have still been able to provide our cities with inexpensive power and cover their own costs. This is clean energy we can afford, and I continue to give them my full support.” Napolitano is the Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Water and Power.
03.10.2011	(Washington D.C.)- On Tuesday, March 1, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was honored by the National Guard Youth Foundation for her strong support and advocacy for the Youth ChalleNGe Program in her area and in the halls of Congress. “To date, Youth ChalleNGe has graduated 104,000 cadets,” Napolitano said. “These are students who might otherwise have dropped out of school but instead were supported as they charted a newer, brighter path through life. It has been an honor to assist this program and its exemplary efforts to help our young people, our future leaders.” Youth ChalleNGe is a program run by the National Guard that uses military discipline and mentoring to help at-risk youth complete high school and emerge better able to succeed in the wider world. “For years, your efforts on behalf of the Youth ChalleNGe Program have sent a strong message to other Members of Congress, the Department of Defense, and state officials,” said Lieutenant General John Conaway, Chairman of the National Guard Youth Foundation. “For this reason, we would like to present you with our ChalleNGe Champions award.” The day after the ceremony, cadets from Sunburst Youth Challenge Academy in Los Alamitos visited Napolitano’s office in Washington, D.C. to express their thanks. Napolitano has been a long-time supporter of Sunburst Youth Challenge Academy, which has helped hundreds of at-risk students rebound with its free and voluntary academic program. (###)
03.10.2011	(Washington D.C.)- On Thursday, March 3, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano was honored by the National Association of County Behavioral Health and Developmental Disability Directors for her legislative efforts on behalf of mental health. Board President Dan Ohler presented Napolitano with an award in the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, D.C. “I thank you for this award, but the countless mental health advocates across the country are the ones who truly deserve recognition,” Napolitano said. “We must continue to work together as we push forward and make progress on mental health.” Napolitano is a long-time advocate for mental health and recently introduced HR 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would create a grant program for schools to fund mental health prevention and intervention services for their students. Link: https://napolitano.house.gov/legislative-work/mental-health-schools-act. (###)
02.24.2011	(Washington D.C.)- On Wednesday, February 23, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined Senator Barbara Boxer, Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Supervisor Don Knabe, and Reps. John Mica, Judy Chu, Jane Harman, Laura Richardson, Bill Shuster, Duncan Hunter, and Corrine Brown at a Los Angeles field hearing to call for renewed investment in transportation, including the Alameda Corridor East (ACE) project. “We have gone six years without passing a transportation bill and our roads and railways need improvement,” Napolitano said. “Highways are clogged, bridges are aging, and public transit remains neglected. In the San Gabriel Valley, we need to complete the Alameda Corridor East project, which helps move goods between the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach and the rest of the country, and also reduces air pollution, accidents, and time spent in traffic for those of us who live nearby. These transportation projects are worthy investments, and they will pay dividends for our economy in the years and decades ahead.” (###)
02.17.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano introduced HR 751, the Mental Health in Schools Act, to the 112th Congress and hosted a panel of mental health advocates to explain the importance of increasing youth mental health services. Star basketball player Ron Artest, champion boxer Mia St. John, Dr. Luis Garcia of Pacific Clinics, Laurel Stine from the Mental Health Liaison Group, and youth mental health advocate Kristina Baird shared their stories and welcomed the much-needed assistance the bill would bring. “I've personally experienced the benefits and transformation a person can have, just by having access to qualified mental health professionals,” Artest said. “I strongly feel the Mental Health in Schools Act will help provide our youth with access to professionals who can teach them tools and skills to deal with challenges in their lives." The Mental Health in Schools Act would create a competitive grant program which would allow the receiving school districts to hire mental health professionals. By having qualified professionals working on-site in the schools, parents and administrators will be better able to detect and prevent mental illness. “I wish this bill was in place when I was in school and when my kids were in school,” St. John said. “Children and parents need to be provided with knowledge and support for the mental illnesses that many of them are suffering from. We don't want these kids turning to drugs and alcohol to self-medicate or even worse, suicide.” One out of five children and adolescents in the United States suffers from some form of mental illness. The majority will experience their first symptoms by age 14, but less than half will have access to treatment or professional help. “We have to continue to move forward on mental health,” Napolitano said. “We have had a successful pilot program in my district for ten years, and now it’s time to take action. Too often we let stigma and shame silence the debate and bring progress to a halt. I thank my panelists today, and I respect them for their courage in speaking out. Mental health is an issue we can no longer afford to ignore.” NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION HOTLINE: 1-800-273-TALK (8255) Mental Health in Schools Act website at: www.napolitano.house.gov/mhsa.shtml (###)
02.16.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in response to the cuts to water programs proposed in the Republican continuing resolution for fiscal year 2011: “The Continuing Resolution risks the water supply of over 30 million people, exposes our groundwater resources to contamination the size of Connecticut and undermines local, state and federal collaborative solutions such as California’s Bay Delta Conservation Plan and the Title XVI water recycling program.KLAMATH BASIN“It also eliminates funding for settlements that help secure water supply for farmers and the environment in the San Joaquin Valley and the Klamath Basin, impacting the entire state of California. “The Klamath Settlement agreements were developed by farmers, tribes, conservation groups, the power company, the States of California and Oregon and negotiated by the Bush Administration. “The funding being spent now is on a study to determine if voluntary removal of these privately-owned dams makes sense. SAN GABRIEL RESTORATION FUND“California pumps roughly 30% of its drinking water from groundwater sources. The San Gabriel and Central Basins serve as the primary source of drinking water for almost 3 million people in Los Angeles County.“H.R. 1 eliminates the San Gabriel Valley Restoration Fund, the last line of defense against migrating groundwater contamination that has affected the San Gabriel Basin for over 35 years. “For over a decade, this cleanup Superfund site has treated 24,000 acre feet of contaminated groundwater, helped fund the construction of 24 treatment facilities and removed approximately 200 pounds of volatile organic compounds. “Groundwater contamination threatens the safety of our communities. With another decade or more needed to complete the cleanup, the funding to fight the spread of groundwater contamination should NOT be eliminated. BAY DELTA/ BIOLOGICAL OPINIONS“Further cuts would also abolish key elements of the San Joaquin River Restoration Program and the implementation of two Biological Opinions protecting wild California Bay-Delta fisheries, risking millions of people’s water supply delivery.TITLE XVI and WATER SMART GRANTS“If we’re really talking about doing more with less, the Title XVI water recycling program is a perfect example of a program that does “more with less.” More Water, More Jobs. What good is it to save money if we don’t have water for jobs? “Title XVI Programs leverage federal dollars: $1 federal dollar is leveraged to every $3 local dollars.“This program and WaterSMART grants create REAL Water. In California alone, Title XVI projects produce over a half a million acre-feet of recycled water each year. “Using the Council of Economic Adviser’s guidance, investment in Title XVI Projects through ARRA funding has led to almost 2,000 full time jobs. Reclamation’s management and recreation activities which include title xvi projects in 2009 result in $39 billion in economic impact, and support more than 260,000 jobs.“WaterSMART Grants are also widely supported in the West. In 2010, Reclamation received 197 applications, with requests for more than $84 million in federal funding.“The Bureau of Reclamation has already awarded over $93.2 million in federal funding for 235 WaterSmart Grant projects in 16 western states from 2004 to 2010.“Together these projects will conserve approximately 705,000 acre-feet per year when fully constructed at an approximate cost of $132 dollars per acre-foot. Imported water can ranges from $300 to $1500 an acre-foot.“I would like to submit for the record letters of support from the Association of California water Agencies and the Water Reuse Foundation. “Conservation and water recycling creates jobs and saves money, not just talk or conversation about cuts. Our communities need our support in developing local, sustainable water supplies through Title XVI projects and WaterSMART grants.”(###)
02.14.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano announced her committee appointments for the 112th Congress.Napolitano was appointed to the Natural Resources Committee, which covers energy production, mineral lands and mining, fisheries and wildlife, water management, public lands, oceans, and Native American issues, and reclamation. Napolitano was also selected to be the ranking member (top Democrat) on the Subcommittee on Water and Power, which has jurisdiction over water resources, irrigation projects, hydroelectric power, and interstate water issues.Napolitano was also appointed to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which covers surface transportation, freight and passenger rail, aviation, inland waterways, international maritime commerce, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers water projects, and the federal clean water program. Napolitano will sit on the Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, and the Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment.“Improved transportation and a stable water supply are critical for our area,” Napolitano said. “Better freeways, faster transit, and clean, available water are all fundamental for economic growth.”(###)
01.26.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Congressional Mental Health Caucus Co-Chairs Rep. Grace F. Napolitano and Rep. Tim Murphy held a briefing for congressional staff on what resources were available to them if they believed a constituent to be mentally ill. Agent Megan Bolosi from the Capitol Police, Dr. Dan Dodgen from the Department of Health and Human Services, William Hudock from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, President of Mental Health America David Shern, and author and advocate Pete Earley all emphasized the importance of not further stigmatizing the mentally ill, who are not more likely to be violent than the general population, while informing staff of what their options are if they ever do feel threatened. “Mental health is a critical issue, and it isn’t going away,” Napolitano said. “Hopefully you will be able to use the information here to improve safety and serve your constituents.” “Through tragedy we can find opportunity to learn and change perceptions and come together to help those in need,” Murphy said. Bolosi and Dodgen discussed “mental health first aid” and what to do if a person becomes threatening. All of the speakers emphasized that the already unjust biases against the mentally ill should not be increased any further. “Less than 1% of the mentally ill are violent,” Earley said. “We can’t blame the person who has the mental illness. After all, we don’t make fun of people in wheelchairs, so why do we make fun of people with mental illnesses?” (###)
01.25.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Tonight, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address: “The President is leading the way forward. The strong, lasting job growth we need will be built on a foundation of education, fiscal responsibility, and investment in American creativity and ingenuity. America can continue to lead in the world economy if we invest in our future. We have to get our fiscal house in order, but not at the expense of the investments needed to win the future. “We must not let politics get in the way. Creating jobs, reducing the deficit, and letting people get back to work will only happen if members of Congress cooperate and act as true representatives of the people. The recent tone of civility is a welcome change for our nation’s future. “The President must continue to address the mental health shortfalls that hurt our youth and veterans. One in five youngsters going to bed tonight in this country will be suffering from some form of mental illness. America’s mental health system is in shambles, and we cannot allow this lack of investment in early prevention and intervention to undermine our future leaders, our youth.” (###)
01.19.2011	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against a Republican effort to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The repeal passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 245-189. “Nobody should have to lose their life savings because a loved one becomes seriously sick or injured,” Napolitano said. “The provisions of health care reform have already proven to be critical for working families across my district. Coverage for pre-existing conditions, tax credits for small businesses, better prescription drug coverage for seniors, and allowing parents to keep their children on their insurance until age 26 are all benefits we cannot afford to lose. Instead of undermining much-needed health care, our focus should be on creating jobs and economic growth.” Napolitano also expressed concern about what effect repealing health care reform would have on the nation’s mental health care system. “This repeal would reduce access to mental health care at a time when our mental health system is already in shambles,” Napolitano said. “One out of four Americans suffers from a mental illness at some point in their life, and many are forced to go untreated, sometimes with tragic results. Repealing health care reform would mean more backsliding for mental health and the mentally ill.” What repeal would mean for California’s 38th District (statistics compiled by the Committee on Energy and Commerce): • Rescinding consumer protections for 321,000 individuals who have health insurance through their employer or the market for private insurance. • Eliminating health care tax credits for up to 15,100 small businesses and 122,000 families. • Increasing prescription drug costs for 7,500 seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole” and denying new preventive care benefits to 73,000 seniors. • Increasing the costs of early retiree coverage for up to 6,400 early retirees. • Eliminating new health care coverage options for 3,500 uninsured young adults. • Increasing the number of people without health insurance by 110,000 individuals. • Increasing the costs to hospitals of providing uncompensated care by $15 million annually. To see the exact boundaries of the 38th District, please visit https://www.napolitano.house.gov/district/infoandmaps.shtml (###)
01.16.2011	(Washington D.C.) On this morning’s “State of the Union” on CNN, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano called for a new focus on mental health in the wake of the tragic shooting in Arizona.“We need to begin to impress upon both the state and federal governments the urgency of this,” Napolitano said. “I’m not saying it could have prevented this, but it certainly would have been better to have help for the individual before it got to this point. We are not informing and educating the public enough to help them make the decisions to help those that they love.”Napolitano appeared alongside fellow Congressional Mental Health Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA).Napolitano has introduced new legislation, the Mental Health in Schools Act, to fund on-site mental health services for youth. Its programs would treat preventable mental health problems early, in school, to help prevent tragic outcomes like depression, crime, and suicide that can occur later in life. The Mental Health in Schools Act is modeled off of Napolitano’s “Youth Suicide Prevention Program,” which she has helped develop and fund for schools in her district since 2001.VIDEO: www.napolitano.house.gov/news/video/011611b.wmvMental Health in Schools Act: www.napolitano.house.gov/mhsa.shtmlNational Crisis Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK (###)
12.17.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Last night, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted against H.R. 4853, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, which passed the House of Representatives and would extend the Bush tax cuts for another two years, including the wealthiest income bracket. “We should be assisting working families during this recession, not wealthy people who need help the least,” Napolitano said. “The high-income tax cuts in this bill would borrow billions to help people who are already doing well. Millions of men and women are still struggling with lost jobs, cut services, and falling home prices, and this money should have gone to helping them instead.” On December 2, Napolitano voted in favor of an earlier version of H.R. 4853, which extended the Bush tax cuts for all Americans except the highest income bracket. (###)
12.08.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted in favor of H.R. 6497, the DREAM (Development, Recovery, and Education of Alien Minors) Act, which would give young undocumented students who were brought to the United States as children an opportunity to work their way towards citizenship after graduating from college or serving in the U.S. military. The DREAM Act passed by a vote of 216 to 198 with bipartisan support. “These students have excelled through hard work, have been educated in America, and should be allowed to contribute to our country,” Napolitano said. “For most of them America is their only home. It would not be fair to punish them for the actions of their parents after years of working hard and playing by the rules. These youth are the boldest and the brightest, and our nation will be stronger, safer, and more prosperous if we allow them to fully contribute to our society. I urge the Senate to quickly pass this common-sense reform." Facts on the DREAM Act: • Young people must meet the following requirements in order to qualify for the conditional status via the DREAM Act: o Must have been brought to the United States as a child (15 years old or younger).o Are currently 29 years old or younger.o Have lived in the U.S. for 5 years or more before the date of the DREAM Act’s enactment.o Have graduated from an American high school, has obtained a GED, or is admitted to an institution of higher education.o Have been a person of “good moral character,” as defined by our immigration laws.o Submit biometric and biographic information and complete security and law-enforcement background checks.o Undergo a medical examination.o Register for the Selective Service.o Pay a surcharge in connection with the initial application. • While they have conditional status, DREAM Act participants are: o Excluded from receiving government subsidies to participate in the health insurance exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act. o Ineligible for Medicaid, Food Stamps and other entitlement programs. o Prohibited from obtaining Pell grants, Federal supplemental educational opportunity grants, and other federal grants. o However, they are still eligible for federal work study and student loans as well as social insurance programs to which they have contributed, as this will allow them to earn or repay the money they need for their education. • After their five year conditional status, these same individuals must have either: o Earned a degree from an institution of higher education. o Completed at least two years of post-secondary education in good standing towards a bachelor’s degree; or o Served in the U.S. Armed Forces for at least two years and, if discharged, have received an honorable discharge.o Individuals must also have demonstrated good moral character and lived continuously in the United States during those 5 years. • After these 5 years, individuals apply for an extension of their conditional status for a second period of 5 years. Individuals will then have a chance to apply for permanent citizenship if they meet all of the following standards:o Have paid taxes.o Can demonstrate understanding of the history, principles, and government of the United States and the ability to read, write, and speak English.o Have maintained good moral character throughout the previous 10 years. Other facts on the DREAM ACT:• The DREAM Act only applies to individuals who entered the U.S. as children. According to DREAM Act’s provisions, beneficiaries must have entered the United States when they were 15 years old or younger. • DREAM Act applicants will be responsible for paying fees to cover the costs of USCIS processing their applications. According to Section 286(m) of Immigration and Nationality Act provisions, the cost of having U.S. Customs and Immigration Services process DREAM Act applications will be covered by the application fees. • DREAM Act applicants would be subject to rigorous criminal background checks and reviews. All criminal grounds of inadmissibility and removability that apply to other aliens seeking lawful permanent resident status would apply and bar criminal aliens from gaining conditional or unconditional LPR status under the DREAM Act. Additionally, decisions to grant status are discretionary, and any alien with a criminal record not automatically barred by these provisions would only be granted status when and if the Secretary exercises her discretion favorably.• The DREAM Act would reduce the deficit over the next decade. According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the DREAM Act in its current form will increase government revenues by $2.2 billion over the next 10 years. This is because individuals in the DREAM Act program are not eligible for most government services and make a greater economic contribution after they have graduated college or served in the military.• The DREAM Act has long enjoyed the support of both Democrats and Republicans. o It has passed twice out of the Senate Judiciary Committee with bipartisan support.o It was included in 2006 comprehensive immigration reform bill that passed out of the Senate, with the support of 11 Senate Republicans currently serving. o And in 2007, despite the support of 12 Republicans, including 7 currently in the Senate, a standalone version of the DREAM Act fell just 8 votes shy from the 60-votes needed to be debated. (###)
12.01.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Yesterday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted in favor of H.R. 4783, the Claims Resolution Act of 2010, which passed the House of Representatives with provisions establishing the federal government’s obligation to make drinking water available to Native American tribes and pueblos. Napolitano is chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee and lead efforts to strengthen the Native American water rights provisions in the bill. The legislation fulfills a commitment the United States made to these tribes when they established the reservations. Napolitano made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Video is available at www.napolitano.house.gov/news/video/v120110.wmv. “Titles III through VI settle the water rights claims for seven tribes and pueblos in the states of Arizona, New Mexico and Montana. In the case of the five New Mexico pueblos, this legislation would end a combined total of 84 years of protracted, divisive and expensive litigation. “This legislation is fully paid for. Most of these settlements involve either the rehabilitation of facilities or the design and construction of much needed drinking water systems. Having an offset for the entire cost of this legislation allows for project construction to start earlier and stay on schedule, ultimately saving taxpayers millions of dollars in construction costs that are subject to inflation increases. In the case of White Mountain Apache and the Miner Flat Project, it is estimated that these savings are as much as $7 million annually. “The scarcity of water in the West and a long-running effort to meet the needs of the tribal communities has required compromise and development of trust in the process. The tribes have negotiated in good faith and ultimately have settled for a water right that is far less than what their initial claims asserted in litigation with the United States. “When this Nation established reservations we did so with a commitment to supply the tribes with water. The beauty of these four settlements is that the tribal, federal, state and local stakeholders all see the benefit as not just for the tribal members - but for the communities and regions as a whole. All four settlements have received bipartisan support and have been considered and debated by the House, whether through a subcommittee hearing or house passage. “Title seven of this legislation provides initial funding to the Reclamation Water Settlement Fund, established in Public Law 111-11. The initial funding will go towards the design, planning and construction of the Navajo – Gallup Water Supply Project. This project will bring water to the Navajo Nation and their non-Indian neighbors. “In 2010 I think it is time that we provide the infrastructure for these people so that they don’t have to wait for a truck to navigate the unmaintained roads to bring water to their homes. Water, a basic human right, should be provided to all of our citizens. It is time we step up to our commitments. “I would like to commend all of the parties involved in the negotiation of these settlements, from the tribes and pueblos, their non-tribal neighbors, and the local and state entities that have spent countless hours in bringing water certainty to their communities. We would also like to commend the Administration in their rededication to the Indian water settlement negotiation process. It is to the Administration’s credit that we have in front of us four settlements that we can fully support. “It is time that we give these settlements their full support, and provide water certainty and more importantly, a water future to the tribes and their neighbors.” (###)
11.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Monday, November 22, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined LA Laker Ron Artest and champion boxer Mia St. John for an official mental health and suicide prevention training at Napolitano’s district office in Santa Fe Springs. After the training, Napolitano, Artest, and St. John visited Los Alisos Middle School in Norwalk, where they sat in with students and counselors from the school’s mental health program and listened to their stories. "It was great to learn about the different kinds of needs our youth may have, depending on what challenges and circumstances they may be facing in life,” Artest said. “Having gone through this training, I feel more 'equipped with information,' and will feel more confident when speaking with kids in the future." The training was delivered by Dr. Luis Garcia of Pacific Clinics, an organization which helps provide mental health services in California schools, and covered suicide prevention, the needs of young people dealing with mental health issues, and identifying youth who need help. “I wish there had been a program for mental health when I was in school, but there wasn’t much help or awareness as a young Chicana growing up in the U.S.,” St. John said. “But I always had hope that one day I would get better and I made a promise to myself that I would devote my life to helping others overcome their battles with mental health.” Artest and St. John have joined Napolitano to promote the Mental Health in Schools Act, legislation she authored which would increase federal funding for mental health therapists in schools. Los Alisos Middle School is one of the 11 schools in Napolitano’s district enrolled in a mental health program Napolitano started in 2001, a program which has been so successful it now serves as a model for the Mental Health in Schools Act. Ron Artest took a stand for mental health in June when he thanked his psychologist after the LA Lakers won the NBA championship, an act that made national headlines and encouraged others not to be afraid to talk about mental health. In September he joined Napolitano at Eastmont Intermediate School to talk to students about therapy, and in October he put his first NBA championship ring up for an online raffle to benefit mental health charities. As a junior high student, he was guided by a school counselor, and he supports the Mental Health in Schools Act as a way to provide therapy for the many students who cannot afford it. Mia St. John is a three-time world champion boxer who has successfully dealt with her own mental health issues to become an accomplished athlete. She has established a foundation, El Saber Es Poder (“Knowledge is Power”), to help Latino school children, and she travels and speaks to students on a variety of topics, including mental health. She supports the Mental Health in Schools Act because of the support it would provide to Latino youth and young women, two groups disproportionally affected by preventable mental illness. “I applaud Ron Artest and Mia St. John for having the courage to step forward and speak out about mental health,” Napolitano said. “Their bravery does tremendous good for all of the youngsters who look up to them. With this training, they now have an even greater appreciation of what is at stake for the next generation. Their support for the Mental Health in Schools Act will help the many youth who desperately need someone to give them a helping hand.” Napolitano is the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. National Suicide Prevention Hotline: 1-800-273-TALK (###)
11.11.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano spoke at Veterans Day ceremonies in La Puente, Pico Rivera, and Montebello, thanking veterans for their service and reaffirming our obligations to our fighting men and women. “On this day, we take time to express our deep gratitude to our veterans and remember all that they have done for our country,” Napolitano said. “Our veterans have served us with dedication and honor, and many have made the ultimate sacrifice on our behalf. We must never forget their remarkable service or the great debt we owe them. All of us, from lawmakers to friends and neighbors, should give veterans and their families the respect and support they deserve, and ensure they receive the benefits they have earned by virtue of their service.” The ceremonies took place at La Puente City Hall, the Mines Avenue Veterans Monument in Pico Rivera, and Montebello City Park. Napolitano also encouraged understanding for veterans returning home with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). “The mental wounds of war are as serious as the physical ones,” Napolitano said. “What we need to do is provide care and support once our wounded warriors return home. We must continue to fund federal programs helping veterans with PTSD, and make the effort in our own lives as well.” (###)
11.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano congratulated Foothill Transit on the $10 million in federal funding it received from the Department of Transportation for its new electric “Ecoliner” buses running from Pomona to La Verne.“I congratulate Foothill Transit and the City of Pomona on their new electric bus line,” Napolitano said. “These state-of-the-art buses will get people where they need to go quickly and without air pollution. Millions of Americans rely on public transportation to travel within our cities, and these projects deserve continued support at all levels of the government.”Foothill Transit received the $10,170,000 grant through the TIGGER (Transit Investments for Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reduction) II competitive grant program from the Federal Transit Administration. Napolitano sits on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, which created the TIGGER grant program in 2008.Foothill Transit will use the funding to quadruple its fleet of American-made “Eco-liner” buses from 3 to 12. Ecoliner buses are electric and can recharge their batteries within ten minutes.In September, Napolitano and other officials celebrated the arrival of the first three Ecoliner buses at a ceremony in Pomona. The original three buses were funded with stimulus dollars provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.(###)
10.25.2010	Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano hosted astronaut José Hernández as he visited Pueblo School in Pomona, 4th Street Elementary in East L.A., and Lampton Elementary in Norwalk, sharing his story with students and encouraging them to seek higher education. “If you ever have a dream, never stop trying,” Hernández said. “I applied to NASA twelve times before I was selected. Three things inspired me: working in the fields and looking up at the stars, watching the Apollo 17 mission on TV, and the first Latino astronaut, Dr. Franklin Chang-Diaz.” Hernández began life as the son of migrant farm workers, learning English at age 12 before ultimately attending college and graduate school, distinguishing himself as an engineer, and serving on the U.S. space station, where he performed scientifically critical tasks while orbiting miles above the surface of the earth. Hernández visited the three schools at the request of Rep. Napolitano. “Today is a great day for our schools,” Napolitano said. “We are honored to have José Hernández here to motivate our students to reach for the stars.” (###)
10.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano joined U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) and the Hacienda-La Puente Unified School District in hosting a free naturalization info session at the Dibble Adult School Campus in Hacienda Heights. More than 150 people attended the fair, where they learned about the application process, conducted mock interviews with USCIS staff, and learned about the benefits of U.S. citizenship. “Our country was built by immigrants just like you,” Napolitano said. “The resources available here can help you on the road to citizenship, so take advantage of this session. I hope you invite us to your swearing-in ceremony.” “I liked the session because I learned a lot today,” said Isabel Garcia, of Hacienda Heights. “I feel like I understand the application process for citizenship more now.” Both Spanish and Chinese speakers were available for help with translation. For more information on the citizenship process, call Napolitano’s district office at (562) 801-2134 or visit www.uscis.gov. (###)
10.19.2010	(Norwalk, CA)- On Saturday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held a military academy info session at Southeast Academy High School in Norwalk, where interested students learned how to apply to the Coast Guard, Navy, Airforce, Military, or Merchant Marines service academies. More than 75 students attended, learning about the application process and how to secure the necessary nomination and support from Napolitano. “To all the students and parents, these academies offer great opportunities to learn at some of the best schools the government has to offer,” Napolitano said. “I hope my office can directly assist you in pursuing your dream with a nomination to the academy of your choice.” Applicants to U.S. military academies need to be nominated by their local Representative. Interested students should submit their information to Rep. Napolitano’s district office in Santa Fe Springs by November 19, including: • A completed Academy Nomination Application form (visit www.napolitano.house.gov)• One or two letters of recommendation• A personal statement indicating why you should be considered• High school and/or college transcripts• Copy of SAT score For more information, call Napolitano’s district office at (562) 801-2134. (###)
09.29.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Saturday, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano held a government assistance fair at the Mexican American Opportunity Foundation in Montebello, California to help people resolve problems with the IRS, the Veterans Administration, U.S. Immigration Services, and Social Security. More than 100 people attended, receiving free expert advice and working with Napolitano’s staff and representatives from the federal agencies to move their cases forward. “Take advantage of these services: they are free, your taxes pay for them,” Napolitano said. “My office can help you work with federal agencies by telling you what steps to take and connecting you with the right people.” “I recently became a citizen in March of this year and I needed help with petitioning for my wife,” said Paul Cerrano of East L.A. “They told me what forms I needed to fill out and explained the whole process to me.” Constituents who need help dealing with federal agencies should call Rep. Napolitano’s office at (562) 801-2134 or visit www.napolitano.house.gov. (###)
09.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the House of Representatives passed a resolution authored by Rep. Grace F. Napolitano commemorating the 75th anniversary of the dedication of the Hoover Dam. “Much of the prosperity and development we enjoy in California and the Southwest today would not have been possible without the water and electricity supplied by the Hoover Dam,” Napolitano said. “What began as an agricultural reservoir has become an economic resource critical to our way of life. Today, we recognize 75 successful years of service and honor those who built, maintained, and protected the Hoover Dam to the benefit of millions of Americans. ” 18 million people depend on the dam for water and 29 million for inexpensive electricity. “We must take the necessary steps to ensure continued delivery of water and power from the Hoover Dam,” Napolitano said. “I urge the Senate to pass S.2891, the Hoover Dam Power Allocation Act, which reauthorizes the dam for the next 50 years and expands access to its power to Native Americans and other previously excluded groups.” Under the new legislation, 5% of the dam’s power will be reserved for Native American tribes and other groups. The Hoover Dam Power Allocation Act passed the House in June. It now awaits a vote in the Senate, where its sponsor is Sen. Harry Reid (D-Nevada). Napolitano is the Chair of the Subcommittee on Water and Power. (###)
09.23.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed the first wave of reforms stemming from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act – the health care “Patient’s Bill of Rights” applying to all new health plans. The new rules prohibit insurers from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions, eliminate lifetime coverage caps, require free preventive care for all new plans, and allow young adults to stay on their parents’ plan until age 26. “These critical, common-sense reforms will give some peace of mind to Americans who worry about losing healthcare coverage for themselves or a loved one,” Napolitano said. “More children will be able to find coverage, and outlawing the worst industry practices will allow patients to count on their healthcare being there when they need it most.” New protections for health insurance plans beginning on or after September 23:• Prohibits insurance companies from dropping coverage. Small application errors cannot be used to deny coverage for patients after they get sick.• No discrimination against children with pre-existing conditions. Children cannot be denied coverage for a pre-existing condition as they were in the past.• Eliminating lifetime limits on insurance coverage. Lifetime dollar limits on essential benefits like hospital stays will be prohibited. • Extending coverage for young adults to age 26. Youth can remain on their parents’ plan until age 26. Young people previously lost coverage at age 19 if out of school and at age 23 if in college.• Regulating annual limits on insurance coverage. New rules will sharply restrict the use of annual dollar limits on the amount of insurance coverage a patient may receive.• Free preventive care. New plans will be required to provide preventive care services like mammograms without charging a deductible, co-pay, or co-insurance.• Greater rights to appeal for patients. Patients will be able to appeal insurer’s decisions through their plans’ internal review processes and via an independent, third-party reviewer.• Ban on limiting choice of doctors. People who purchase a new plan will be able to choose their own doctor within their insurer’s network. “For these reforms to be effective, people have to take charge and know how to make the most of them,” Napolitano said. “Take it upon yourself to learn, ask questions, get educated, and inform others. For small businesses especially, many do not realize the savings and tax credits for health insurance that are available. Those credits will help lower insurance costs and stimulate the economy only if small businesses know how to take advantage of them.” If a business has fewer than 25 employees and less than $50,000 in average wages, it could qualify for a credit worth up to 35% of the premiums it pays. These same credits will cover 50% of the cost starting in 2014. These credits have been available since health care reform was signed into law in March. More details on health care reform can be found at www.healthcare.gov, and information on small business tax credits can be found at www.irs.gov. (###)
09.13.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace Napolitano hosted a panel on Latino mental health as part of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s public policy conference. Panel members including Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Administrator Pamela Hyde, President of the American Psychological Association Dr. Melba Vasquez, Director of the Multicultural Action Center at the National Alliance on Mental Illness Majose Carrasco, and Executive Director of the Alliance for Latino Behavioral Health Workforce Development Henry Acosta, surveyed a range of mental health challenges facing the Latino community, including stigma preventing many from seeking help, lack of access to linguistically and culturally appropriate services, and the chronic shortage of qualified mental health professionals. “Mental health has long been ignored, and we have to continue de-stigmatizing the issue and pushing it forward,” Napolitano said. “Mental health does not discriminate: it affects all of us regardless of race, class, or gender, and Latinos are no exception.” “Behavioral health is part of health,” Hyde said. “If we had a person walking around who was bleeding and nobody was helping them there would be outrage, but when there is emotional bleeding no one knows what to do. And it is preventable. A lot of people don’t know it yet, but addiction, substance abuse, and mental disorders can be prevented.” “Mental health disorders, left untreated, lead to serious and tragic outcomes,” Vasquez said. “And unfortunately many Latinos go without due to a variety of barriers, including stigma, lack of bilingual professionals and culturally appropriate services.” Hispanic girls have an attempted suicide rate 60% higher than their white counterparts. From 2004 to 2007, an average of 15.6% (1 in 7) Hispanic/Latino 18-25 year olds reported serious psychological distress, but only 28% of those had received care in the past 12 months. Latinos have a higher incidence of mental distress but lower access to care, with one-third lacking healthcare compared to less than 19% for whites. “At the local, county, state and federal level we have to work to get the bilingual services we need, and take away the fear of mental health that exists in the Latino community,” Napolitano said. “Especially with the macho guys, we have to have more people stepping forward and saying it’s ok to seek help. Ron Artest did it, God bless him, and we need more of that.” Last Thursday Napolitano and L.A. Laker Ron Artest spoke to middle school students to destimgatize mental health in Montebello, California. Artest is a proponent of HR 2531, the Mental Health in Schools Act, a bill authored by Napolitano that provides on-site, culturally and linguistically appropriate mental health therapy and counseling in schools. Napolitano is the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. (###)
09.09.2010	(Montebello, CA)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano and L.A. Laker Ron Artest encouraged students at Eastmont Intermediate School in Montebello to seek mental health assistance if needed and called for the passage of HR 2531, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would provide funding for schools across the country to set up mental health programs for students. “Everyone has problems in life, and we all need someone we can talk to,” Artest said. “I started seeing a school counselor when I was in junior high school and my parents were going through a divorce, and it helped me out a lot. Now that I’m playing in the NBA, I have different problems and I talk to a sports therapist who can help me sort through the issues I face now. I’m here today to tell you, don’t be afraid to ask for help if you need it, even if it is from a close friend or family member.” “Mental health is an issue we have been afraid to talk about for far too long,” Napolitano said. “Children deserve access to the mental health services that make them happier, keep them on track in school, and help them meet their potential. We have to overcome the stigma surrounding mental health and do what is right for the next generation -- the Mental Health in Schools Act would help thousands of students get the support and therapy they need.” Napolitano is the author of HR 2531, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would provide grant funding to establish on-site preventive mental health services in public schools, including professional therapists, educational outreach to reduce stigma in the community, and services that are culturally and linguistically appropriate for each community. Eastmont Intermediate is one of 11 schools in Napolitano’s district currently running her mental health program, which she started in 2001 after learning that one in three Latinas has contemplated suicide. Ron Artest took a stand against mental health stigma in June when he thanked his psychologist after the LA Lakers won the NBA championship, an act that made national headlines and encouraged others not to be afraid to talk about mental health. As a junior high student, he was guided by a school counselor, and he supports the Mental Health in Schools Act as a way to provide therapy for the many students who cannot afford it. Students also heard from school therapists and an older student who had been helped by the program. Stigma surrounding mental health has been established as one of the greatest barriers to youth seeking care, and the assembly was designed to teach students about school services and make them feel comfortable about using them. One in five children and adolescents has a diagnosable mental health disorder. Programs administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration (SAMHSA) have been shown to increase the number of youth attending school regularly from 75% to 81% and the number receiving passing grades from 55% to 66% after one year of participation. Thirty-eight percent of students had better behavior in their first year, and after three years violent incidents had declined by 15%. “The fact is mental health programs work,” Napolitano said. “Wherever these programs are implemented, grades and attendance go up, violence and behavioral problems go down, and our young people are better equipped to avoid drugs, crime, depression, and suicide. The cost to provide mental health services is low, and we owe these youngsters the basic support they need to grow and move forward.” “I was thrilled when Congresswoman Napolitano approached me about joining forces with her to support the Mental Health in Schools Act,” Artest said. “For years I have been trying to figure out a way to advocate for kids and teens who could benefit from having access to counseling services. The passage of this bill would provide our youth with access to qualified persons who can help guide our kids into making positive, life-affirming choices and help steer them away from a life filled with drugs, alcohol and violence.” The Mental Health in Schools Act would provide SAMHSA with $200 million to expand the scope of the Safe Schools/Healthy Students program to provide comprehensive, on-site mental health services for schools across the country. Schools would partner with local nonprofits to hire mental health professionals, train school staff to understand warning signs and risk factors, and educate parents, siblings, and family members. The new funding is greatly needed. State mental health programs were cut nationally by 4 percent in 2009, 5 percent in 2010, and are estimated to be cut by more than 8% in 2011. The current recession has also been difficult for children. According to a New York Times/CBS poll, four out of ten unemployed parents say they have noticed behavioral changes in their children since they lost their jobs. “Mental health is an issue that does not discriminate – it affects all Americans regardless of age, race, or gender,” Napolitano said. “Mental health programs for children are effective, inexpensive, and desperately needed. The time has come to brush aside the stigma surrounding mental health and do what is right for our young people with the Mental Health in Schools Act.” (###)
08.08.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted in favor of the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1586 providing, emergency funding to state governments to retain teachers in our classrooms, police and fire personnel in our communities, and to bolster Medicaid. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act provides a total of $26.1 billion in funding, including $10 billion for education jobs that will keep nearly 140,000 educators employed next year, along with $16 billion for Federal Medical Assistance Percentages (FMAP) for Medicaid. This bill will be fully paid for by offsets. The Congressional Budget Office estimates this bill will reduce the national deficit by $1.37 billion in 10 years. “This was a critical vote,” Napolitano said. “This funding will save the jobs of thousands of teachers, policemen, and firefighters, and it will maintain basic medical services for people who cannot afford them. During our current recession, we must have a basic medical security net in place and continue to protect the education and future our young people. We must maintain the right priorities.” (###)
07.30.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Late last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed their annual transportation funding bill, which contained funding for several local projects submitted by Rep. Grace F. Napolitano. “These transportation projects are critical for our economic wellbeing,” Napolitano said. “With new buses and faster-flowing traffic, our air will be cleaner, our travel times quicker, and our local economies stronger from new funding and construction. We have many more difficult transportation problems to solve in our area, but federal funds are providing an essential ingredient for increased safety and efficiency.” The House bill, H.R. 5850, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2011, passed by a vote of 251 to 167. The bill will now go on to the Senate, where it will be voted on and sent to the President to be signed before any funding will be distributed. Local Projects: New Natural Gas/Electric Hybrid Buses. Under the legislation, Montebello Bus Lines and Norwalk Transit will receive $980,000 in federal funds to continue replacing their diesel buses with new natural gas and gas/electric hybrid buses. The old diesel buses are due for replacement, and the new, “green” buses will allow for cleaner air. The two agencies will share the funding based on a formula that takes ridership and service area into account. Repairing the Rosemead Underpass in Pico Rivera. $450,000 will help make long-term repairs to the Rosemead Underpass in Pico Rivera, where a heavily-used Burlington Northern Santa Fe rail line passes over busy Rosemead Boulevard. In 2004, rainwater from heavy storms began to undermine the sloped concrete walls lining the roadway of the underpass, and the roadway had to be closed for weeks due to structural integrity concerns. Because BNSF railroad claimed the city was responsible, Pico Rivera had to pay for short-term repairs in 2005, but long-term repairs are still urgently needed. Repairs made by the new funding would improve safety for motorists by making the underpass strong enough to withstand even a once-in-one-hundred-years storm. First Steps Toward New Lanes for I-5 from I-605 north to I-710. One million dollars will fund environmental reports and preliminary studies to expand I-5 to ten lanes between I-605 and I-710. Construction on added lanes has already been completed or is underway on I-5 to the south, and local authorities hope to prevent bottlenecks and speed up the flow of traffic by taking the project further north. Adding lanes will reduce the amount of air pollution and lost time caused by traffic congestion. (###)
07.27.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Monday, July 26 Cal Poly Pomona received a $42 million grant from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, the largest cash gift in the history of the California State University system. Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, whose district includes Cal Poly Pomona, congratulated President Dr. Michael Ortiz on the unprecedented new funding: “This donation will benefit our young people and our communities for years to come. Many Cal Poly Pomona students are the first in their family to attend college, and their success will bring new growth and prosperity to our local economy. This new funding will allow continued education students even during these difficult economic times. Cal Poly Pomona and the W.K. Kellogg foundation should be proud of their long partnership and constant support for all our sons and daughters. The youngsters they educate will go on to become the top leaders, scholars and engineers of the next generation.” (###)
07.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Yesterday, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee agreed to the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4349) and reported it favorably out of committee. Rep. Grace F. Napolitano authored the legislation, which establishes how the dam’s electricity will be distributed until 2067. “I applaud the committee for moving this bill forward,” Napolitano said. “This bill allows 29 million Americans to continue to rely on the Hoover Dam for power, and grants new access to its electricity for thousands of Native Americans and other eligible groups.” In earlier authorizations, Native American organizations were not eligible to receive power allocations from the Hoover Dam. The Hoover Bill Allocation Act of 2010 sets aside 5% of the dam’s power for Native Americans, irrigation districts, electric cooperatives, and other entities that previously lacked access. The cities of Los Angeles, Glendale, Pasadena, Burbank, Anaheim, Azusa, Banning, Colton, Riverside, and Vernon, as well as the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Southern California Edison Company, and entities within Arizona and Nevada will continue to have access to electricity from the Hoover Dam. The bill passed the House on June 8. Now that it has passed in committee, the bill awaits a vote by the full Senate before it can be signed into law. The Senate sponsor is Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV). Hoover Dam power allocations for state utilities and municipalities were last authorized in 1984, and are set to expire in 2017. Reauthorizing Hoover power allocations early is necessary in order for electric and water utilities to meet future planning requirements, ensure effective regional transmission planning, and provide reliable water deliveries. Rep. Napolitano is the Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives. (###)
07.22.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted to extend unemployment insurance for people out of work across the country, including thousands within her own district. The House passed the measure 272-152 following yesterday’s Senate vote. “The economy has been slow to recover, as predicted, and jobs are still scarce,” Napolitano said. “There are nearly five unemployed people for every job opening, so many job seekers are unable to find work no matter how hard they try. In the mean time, unemployment insurance funds allow families to put food on the table. Until our economy picks up and jobs are again plentiful, we have a moral obligation to provide people with the assistance they need.” The unemployment rate for LA County in June was 12.2%, compared to 9.5% nationwide. The Department of Labor recently announced there are currently 4.7 job-seekers for every open position. Benefits began to run out June 2, and more than 2.5 million Americans lost their unemployment insurance waiting for the Senate to pass an extension. In past recessions, unemployment insurance has traditionally been extended with emergency spending by both Republicans and Democrats. The funding stimulates the economy in addition to easing the suffering of the unemployed, because it is spent immediately on groceries and other necessities. This time many Republicans have said the cost of unemployment benefits can not be added to the national deficit. “Where were these budget concerns when the Republicans were in charge?” Napolitano said. “They cut taxes on the wealthy when it meant the difference between one vacation home or two. Now they cry ‘deficits’ when unemployment benefits mean the difference between families getting by or going hungry. The unemployed are suffering from a recession they did not cause, and helping them is the morally right thing to do.” Napolitano and other representatives had already voted in support of several measures to extend unemployment benefits in the U.S. House of Representatives, but each time the bills were held up by Republicans in the Senate. Now that the bill has passed the Senate and the House, it will go to President Obama to be signed into law. People who have lost benefits over the last seven weeks will be compensated retroactively. (###)
06.09.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano announced that starting tomorrow Medicare will begin mailing out $250 checks to seniors stuck in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole.’ As part of the recently enacted health care reform law, seniors who fall in the donut hole coverage gap in 2010 will receive a one-time tax-free $250 rebate check. These checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months for any new seniors that enter the coverage gap. The checks are just the first benefit from health reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. “The lack of coverage in the ‘donut hole’ costs many seniors thousands of dollars a year,” Napolitano said. “These checks will be a first step towards reducing prescription drug costs and eventually closing the donut hole altogether.” Seniors fall into the ‘donut hole’ once their prescription drug costs exceed $2,830, forcing them to pay 100 percent of their drug costs until they hit the catastrophic coverage threshold at $6,440. Last year, roughly 382,000 Medicare beneficiaries in California fell in the donut hole and received no extra help to lower the cost of their prescription drugs. Medicare recipients don’t have to do anything to get the $250 check – once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830 the one-time check will be issued automatically. But Rep. Napolitano warned seniors to be on the lookout for fraud. “There are scammers and con artists who target seniors and use government programs as a cover for their crimes,” Napolitano said. “Seniors should know these checks will be sent out automatically, free of charge, and be wary of people who ask for money or personal information.” Other benefits for seniors within health care reform include: - Free preventive care services under Medicare, beginning in 2011. - Increased stability for Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. - Expansion of home and community-based services to keep seniors in their own homes instead of nursing homes. (###)
06.08.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4349, the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2010, which will allow the Hoover Dam to continue providing power to current customers through 2067 and grant new access for Native American tribes and other entities that were previously excluded. The bill was sponsored by Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38). “This bill allows the Hoover Dam to continue serving the 29 million people in California, Arizona, and Nevada who rely on it for inexpensive, renewable energy,” Napolitano said. “For thousands of Native Americans, the new allocation will mean access to this crucial power source for the first time.” Napolitano is chair of the Subcommittee on Water and Power. In previous authorizations, Native American tribes were not eligible to receive power from the Hoover Dam. The Hoover Bill Allocation Act sets aside 5% of the dam’s power for Native Americans, along with irrigation districts, electric cooperatives, and other entities that previously lacked access. The bill had 43 co-sponsors in the House, including bipartisan support from 17 Republicans. Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) is the sponsor of the accompanying Senate bill S. 2891, which is expected to come to a vote on June 9. Hoover Dam power allocations for state utilities and municipalities were last authorized in 1984, and were set to expire in 2017. The new bill allows the Hoover Dam to continue providing power through the year 2067. Reauthorizing Hoover power allocations early is necessary to allow agencies to negotiate new contracts, prepare for changes and ensure the uninterrupted delivery of electricity from the dam to customers. Background Hoover power has been a vital resource for consumers in Arizona, California, and Nevada for decades. Over 29 million people rely on this power, which is a clean, renewable source of energy. Hoover power was first allocated by Congress in 1934 as the Hoover Dam was nearing completion. In 1984, Congress re-allocated Hoover power through contracts with state, municipal and utility contractors. Hoover power contractors have invested over $1.3 billion to date in maintaining the Hoover Dam, and they will continue to pay for the operation, maintenance, replacement, and equipment upgrades for the dam’s power facilities under the new authorization. The existing power contractors have also committed to supporting the Lower Colorado River Multi-Species Conservation Program, which provides for the protection of 26 endangered, threatened and sensitive species on the lower Colorado River. Distribution of Power under New Legislation Under the proposed legislation, Congress would reallocate power to existing contractors in Arizona, Nevada, and California while expanding the potential pool of contractors to include federally recognized Indian Tribes and other eligible entities that are not currently able to purchase Hoover power. Existing contractors contribute 5% of their current allocation to make this expansion to other groups possible. (###)
05.25.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution authored by Rep. Grace Napolitano designating May as Mental Health Month. The final vote was 407 to 1, with 23 abstaining. “Mental health is an issue that has been ignored for decades,” Napolitano said. “It is time we acknowledged that untreated mental illness continues to cause suffering among our friends, family, soldiers and veterans. Awareness is essential for erasing the myths and stigma surrounding mental illness that prevent people from seeking care. I applaud my fellow members of Congress for their support and hope to call upon them again for future legislation addressing mental health concerns.” Napolitano is the author of HR 2531, the Mental Health in Schools Act, which would provide grant funding for preventive mental health services in public schools. The bill is modeled after a successful mental health program Napolitano has supported in her district over the last 9 years. In May, mental health non-profits and advocacy groups held rallies and educational events across the country to raise awareness about mental health issues. Napolitano held three briefings in Washington this month to educate congressional staff on mental health issues. The first focused on children’s mental health, the second on mental health programs in the U.S. military, and the third on suicide prevention. Napolitano is the co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. (###)
05.20.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, held a briefing in Washington, D.C. on the impact of suicide prevention programs on high school students. The briefing featured a suicide prevention training delivered by Dale and Dar Emme, founders of the Yellow Ribbon suicide prevention program, to illustrate the practical application of mental health policies and their significance for their recipients. “Suicide respects no racial or economic boundary,” Napolitano said. “It can occur anywhere, at any time, and often with little warning for the loved ones who are affected most. Preventing suicide requires widespread attentiveness and intervention. Each of us has to do our part, and the responsibility for policymakers is even greater.” “For many of these kids, you would never suspect they were troubled. They are often the overachievers, the A students, the ones that others go to for help,” said Dar Emme. “True suicide prevention happens every day. We need to be there to see the risk factors, see the puzzle pieces start to fit together, and take action.” The Yellow Ribbon program was founded in 1994 after Dale and Dar’s 17-year-old son, Mike Emme, died by suicide. The program has now spread to 48 states and 47 different countries and has saved more than 2,500 lives. Napolitano has established a mental health and suicide prevention program in 8 schools in her district. In 2008 and 2009, a third of children entering the program had previously attempted suicide, but in the 9 years of the program’s operation no students have been lost. Napolitano has authored HR 2531, the Mental Health in Schools Act, to create similar programs in schools across the United States, and she urged the audience of congressional staff to consider the lessons of the Yellow Ribbon program when forming policy. “The Mental Health in Schools Act gives schools the resources to detect troubled youth early on, before mental health issues spiral out of control,” Napolitano said. “It places the eyes and ears of professional counselors in schools, where the signs and stressors of mental health issues appear first. Supporting mental health makes our kids happier, more productive and ultimately saves lives.” May is Mental Health Awareness Month. The briefing was the third held by the Mental Health Caucus this month, after Children’s Mental Health Day on May 6 and Military Mental Health Programs on May 13. (###)
05.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On May 15, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano honored women who had been nominated by volunteer organizations for exemplary service at the 2010 Women of the Year “Unsung Heroines” Award Ceremony, held at the City of Montebello Senior Center in Montebello. “It is essential we pay tribute to these women who volunteer their time to improve their communities, and who are never publicly thanked,” Napolitano said. “These women manage to balance obligations to their families, home responsibilities and careers with community service that improves the lives of those around them. The heart-felt dedication and hard work these women put into their volunteering is not only commendable, it is essential for the spirit and well-being of our community. Tonight, we say thank you to these women -- their example is an inspiration to all of us whose lives are bettered by their efforts.” In total, 23 women received the award. Each had their name submitted by their volunteer organization or community group which felt their contributions deserved special recognition. Napolitano gave out the awards and thanked each woman personally. “Today is wonderful,” said Rosa Perez, who volunteers in the Norwalk – La Mirada Unified School District. “I can do this for many more years, I love it, I love the smiles of the kids. Anything I can do for my community, and this is what I know how to do, to be a volunteer.” “I volunteer in the temple, and we say be compassionate – that’s why I keep going to do it,” said Ruey-Ming Tang Sparks, who volunteers at the Buddha’s Light Hsi Lai School in Hacienda Heights. “If I help somebody, I help the community, I’ve helped them, and I’ve helped myself,” said Lupe C. Lopez of the Shade Lane Seniors Club in Pico Rivera. The keynote speaker for the ceremony was Nancy Agosto, National Census Director for the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, and a television news anchor. The evening included a flag ceremony by the Garfield High School Junior ROTC, the national anthem sung by Montserrate Gastelum La Flor de Cachanilla, and violin-playing by Matthew Angel. “I’m very humbled and excited to receive this award, especially amongst so many other women that also do great things in their city,” said Kristie Hernandez, who volunteers for the East L.A. Residents Association. “It’s great that the Congresswoman does not only recognize one woman but several women because there are many of us who do so much.” 2010 Women of the Year:Lela Acosta, Los Angeles Centers for Alcohol & Drug Abuse – Santa Fe SpringsChristine Ader, City of Pomona Police Department – PomonaMary Beas, Montebello Friends of the Library – MontebelloNancy Cowardin, Fo Guang Shan Hsi Lai Temple – Hacienda HeightsLori Crial-Peterson, Soroptimist International of Santa Fe Springs – Santa Fe SpringsOlga Enterios, Southern Youth Correctional Reception Center and Clinic – NorwalkEthna Garcia, Pio Pico Woman’s Club – Pico RiveraMaria Garcia, Pomona Unified School District – PomonaMarichuy Gomez, Garfield High School JROTC – East Los AngelesBeatrice Gonzalez, Silver Years Club – MontebelloDora Granizo, Happy Years Senior Club – MontebelloKristie Hernandez, East L.A. Residents Association – East Los AngelesThelma Jimenez, Washington Park Community Center – PomonaLupe C. Lopez, Shade Lane Seniors Club – Pico RiveraJennifer Ludwick, Norwalk Elks #2142 – NorwalkAnn Martayan, Holy Cross Armenian Apostolic Cathedral – MontebelloNora Morales, Pico Rivera History and Heritage Society – Pico RiveraAntonieta Paez, Norwalk Lions Club – NorwalkRosa Perez, Norwalk-La Mirada Unified School District – NorwalkAdriana Pinedo, City of Pomona – PomonaRuey-Ming Tang Sparks, Buddha’s Light Hsi Lai School – Hacienda HeightsDarlene Villar, Basset Park – BassettRebeca Zazueta, Eastmont Community Center – East Los Angeles (###)
05.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On May 14, the office of Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, the California Employment Development Department, and many other partners held a veterans and youth job fair at the Norwalk Arts and Sports Complex in Norwalk to assist veterans, young people, and other job-seekers in finding work. More than 600 people attended the event, which had 54 private employers, 34 youth and veterans service providers, training sessions in resume writing, a dress-for-success workshop, a veterans benefits workshop, free haircuts, and free health screenings from the Veterans Administration’s mobile clinic. “This job fair is an opportunity not only to help vets and youth but all of those looking for work,” Napolitano said. “Many qualified and hard-working people continue to look for a chance to provide for themselves and their families. This economy continues to be very tough, and we need to connect out-of-work families with job openings as quickly as possible to relieve the strain.” The job fair was open to all interested job-seekers, but the services offered were aimed at veterans and young people, two groups that experience especially high unemployment. All private employers participating were hiring for open positions. “I’m hoping that a door opens and I can get my foot in there so I can provide for my girls, I’m a single mom,” said Cynthia Lopez, a resident of Norwalk. “This is a new opportunity to look for something so I’m just hopeful.” Other partners included the City of Norwalk, SELACO Workforce Investment Board, SASSFA WorkSource, and Hearts of Compassion, who ran a food giveaway. “Our goal is to serve the people of California and the best way to do that is partnership,” said Michael Dolphin, Division Chief at California Employment Development Department. “We know that the work we do is about the public’s best interest.” “It’s been going pretty good, I’ve been talking to a lot of employers. Everyone here is hiring now, that’s the best part,” said Vincente Castillo, who had been actively looking for work for three months. “I think my future is looking pretty good.” (###)
05.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Yesterday, Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA), co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, hosted a briefing in Washington, D.C. on the latest developments in mental health programs in the military. Speakers included fellow co-chair Rep. Tim Murphy, Chairman of Veterans Affairs Committee Rep. Bob Filner (D-CA), Deputy Surgeon General for the US Army Patricia Horoho, and mental health representatives from the Navy, Marines, and Air Force. Addressing an audience of congressional staff, the speakers agreed that the military must continue its efforts to prepare for troops returning home from Iraq and Afghanistan, and that the stigma against mental health formed a major obstacle treating troops with mental health issues. “Military service members and their families have earned the right to effective mental health services,” Napolitano said. “Iraq and Afghanistan are different from other wars, and many of our soldiers will return with serious psychological wounds like post-traumatic stress disorder. As members of Congress, we must support veterans’ mental health programs and ensure that our constituents know how to use these resources and exercise their given rights.” An estimated 35 percent of Iraq veterans are expected to return home with symptoms of post-traumatic stress syndrome, and as of last summer more troops have been lost to suicide than combat in Afghanistan. “The stigma against mental health is great, and it is even greater in the military,” Filner said. “Soldiers are not diagnosed sufficiently because they do not want to be labeled as ‘weak.’ The stigma is changing, but it is not changing fast enough.” “Stigma is an issue,” agreed Col. John Forbes from the Air Force. “Its effects on the soldiers, the friends, and the family all conspire to keep veterans out of clinics.” Horoho noted that in an effort to reduce stigma, the army has mandated that all redeploying troops in the US army meet with a counselor for evaluation. “When everybody does it, it helps normalize it and decreases that stigma,” she said. “But we are changing a culture, and that takes a long time.” “Mental wounds are as serious as physical ones, and Congress and the military should respond accordingly,” Napolitano said. “After their dedication and service to our country, veterans should feel no shame in asking that we assist them in return. Our mental health programs must be capable of providing veterans and their families with the healing and support that they need to return their lives to some semblance of normalcy.” (###)
05.12.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Saturday, May 8, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano visited the students of the Los Altos Academy of Engineering at their fifth annual open house to view their technical accomplishments and discuss the America COMPETES Act, which increases federal investment in math and science education. The students displayed several clean energy transportation projects, including a hydrogen internal combustion engine that burns hydrogen instead of gasoline, an electric car, the first hydrogen fuel cell built by high school students, and a solar-powered vehicle that raced across Australia in the World Solar Challenge. “I commend these young men and women for their remarkable achievements,” Napolitano said. “Too often positive news about our students goes unnoticed and we do not realize how proud we should be. The clean energy research done by these young scientists and engineers is the kind of innovation that will keep our country competitive in the twenty-first century. It is critical that we continue to support science education locally and at the federal level – just look at what our kids can accomplish with the proper support.” Napolitano pointed to the America COMPETES Act HR 5116 as a key piece of legislation for supporting future innovation. The America COMPETES Act increases national investment in scientific research and in math and science education at all levels, including doubling funding for basic scientific research over the next ten years. Roughly half of GDP growth since World War II has been related to the development and adoption of new technology, and the bill aims to boost U.S. competitiveness and economic strength by laying a foundation for future scientific discoveries. The bill is scheduled to come to a vote tomorrow in the U.S. House of Representatives. “What these students have accomplished is a sign of what our country can achieve in the future,” Napolitano said. “America has been at the forefront of every major technological innovation of the last one hundred years, and with continued investment and the intelligence of our young people there is no reason why we cannot continue to lead for the next one hundred years.” IMAGE: Rep. Napolitano with Los Altos students and vehicle with hydrogen internal combustion engine (HICE)https://www.napolitano.house.gov/press_releases/losaltos.JPG LINK: More information on America COMPETES Acthttps://science.house.gov/ (###)
05.10.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On May 6, Rep. Grace Napolitano, the Mental Health Caucus, and prominent national mental health advocacy organizations held a briefing in Washington, D.C. on National Children’s Mental Health Day. Napolitano, government administrators, and mental health advocates addressed an audience of activists and congressional staff on child and adolescent mental health issues and the necessity and effectiveness of federally funded mental health programs. “Too many children with mental health issues struggle alone, without the support they need to grow and move forward,” Napolitano said. “We are better off addressing mental health issues early on, in school, instead of suffering the possible suicide, criminal behavior, and lost potential that can come when we pretend that they do not exist. The cost of these programs is low and we owe it to our kids to make sure they are adequately funded.” Napolitano has introduced the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2009, a bill which would provide federal grants for mental health service providers to partner with schools in offering mental health services for children and adolescents. The bill is modeled after a successful pilot program Napolitano established in 2001 that currently operates in 8 public schools within her district. “Intervention makes a big difference,” said Kathryn Power, Director of the Center for Mental Health Services at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). “Helping children become healthy, strong and self-confident prevents mental health problems and leads to a lifetime of positive outcomes.” On May 6, SAMHSA released a new study that showed that behavioral and emotional problems decreased among nearly one-third (31 percent) of young children with mental health challenges within the first 6 months after entering services through a systems of care program. “Income matters,” said Janice Cooper, Director of the National Center for Children in Poverty at Columbia University. “The recession has reminded us of that, and cuts to mental health programs have reminded us of that.” “Mental health programs for children deserve federal funding,” Napolitano said. “A little compassion early on pays big dividends in the long run. We must act now -- we have the necessary resources, we know what we have to do, and we owe our kids their future.” (###)
05.05.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On April 27, Rep. Grace Napolitano received the Allies for Action award from the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention and Suicide Prevention Action Network. Napolitano received the award for her efforts in the field of suicide prevention and mental health care, including her establishment of a school-based child and adolescent mental health program in her district and securing funding for that program over the last 9 years. Napolitano has also introduced the Mental Health in Schools Act of 2009, which if passed will expand youth mental health programs to hundreds of schools across the country. Napolitano founded the Mental Health Caucus with Rep. Tim Murphy, which now has more than 70 members from both parties. “It has been a top priority for Rep. Napolitano to ensure access to mental health care, especially for our youth, Hispanics, seniors, and veterans,” said Robert Gebbia, executive director for AFSP. “Her work sends a strong message that suicide is a national health problem and more needs to be done to prevent further deaths. We are honored to have her as our ally in a fight to save lives.” “Thank you for the honor, but we are only beginning,” Napolitano said. “Much stigma remains surrounding mental health. We must continue to do everything we can to provide for our children, veterans, and other members of our community when they need us the most.” May is Mental Health Awareness Month nationwide, and May 6 is Children’s Mental Health Day. (###)
04.28.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Grace F. Napolitano congratulated Assistant Secretary for Primary and Secondary Education Thelma Melendez de Santa Ana on her recognition by Hispanic Business magazine as the 2010 Woman of the Year. “I heartily congratulate Thelma on her well-deserved award and thank her again for her continued concern for our students,” Napolitano said. “When she was at Pomona Unified, her care and dedication gave us a dramatic turnaround in our schools and in the expectations for our children. Now her work in the Obama Administration continues to make us proud. All the awards in the world could not fully express the pride and gratitude we feel for Thelma and what she continues to do for our schools and our country.” Melendez de Santa Ana served as Superintendent for the Pomona Unified School District before being appointed to her current position in the Obama Administration. Napolitano has been a long-time supporter of Melendez. (###)
04.26.2010	(Washington D.C.)- (Washington, DC) On Saturday, April 24, Rep. Grace Napolitano hosted the 2010 38th Congressional District High School Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery,” at the Fox Theater in downtown Pomona. Jesus Rivera from El Rancho High School won first place with his piece “Dreams of War,” Isaac Martinez from Montebello High School won second place with his piece “Self Portrait,” and Genesis Guzman from El Rancho High School won third place with her piece “The Concept of Beauty.” Rivera received a free roundtrip ticket for himself and a parent to attend a reception in Washington, D.C., where first place winners from congressional districts across the country will have their artwork hung on the walls of the U.S. Capitol. All submissions will be on public display at the Pomona Arts Colony at 184 W. 3rd Street between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. until May 8. “Our area has a tremendous amount of artistic talent,” Napolitano said. “We need to continue to give these talented youngsters more academic programs and scholarships to help them succeed. I congratulate our students and I am proud to have their artwork represent our district.” “I look forward to going to D.C. for the first time because I haven’t been there,” Jesus Rivera said. “Pictures of war, old pictures during the Vietnam War, and what’s going on today with Iraq inspired me to do the art piece.” Jerry Tessier of the Pomona Arts Colony, Hamrozalli Abkarim of Cao Yong Editions Inc., and Stacy Davies, Arts and Culture Editor for IE Weekly were the judges for the contest. Other winners included: Judges Choice Daniel Villalobos (Pomona)Title: “El Cono del Pino” Gabriela Lopez (Ganesha)Title: “Fashion” Anabel Arreola (Pomona)Title: “Bobby” Honorable Mentions Leo Altamirano (El Rancho)Title: “Desperate Hope” Cathy Ramirez (Norwalk)Title: “Contrasting Colors” Richhany Soth (Garey)Title: “A Lustful Moment” Kristen Huizar (Montebello)Title: “Self Portrait” Mark Garcia (Montebello)Title: “Self Portrait” Francisca Cortes (Workman)Title: “Angel Skull” The Congressional Art Competition is held every year to give young artists an opportunity to display their talent on a local and potentially national level. First place winners are selected from each of participating Congressional Districts and their artwork is put on display for one year at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. High school students interested in entering the contest next year should talk to their art teacher. See links below for images:Ceremony (Napolitano, Rivera, Martinez, Guzman):https://www.napolitano.house.gov/photos/2010/Onstage.jpg All three winners:https://www.napolitano.house.gov/photos/2010/Allthree.jpg 1st Place Jesus Rivera “Dreams of War”: https://www.napolitano.house.gov/photos/2010/1stJesusRivera.jpg 2nd Place Isaac Martinez “Self Portrait”: https://www.napolitano.house.gov/photos/2010/2ndIsaacMartinez.jpg 3rd Place Genesis Guzman “The Concept of Beauty”:https://www.napolitano.house.gov/photos/2010/3rdGenesisGuzman.jpg (###)
04.15.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, backed by fellow East Los Angeles Reps. Lucille Roybal-Allard and Judy Chu and several other members of Congress, introduced a congressional resolution recognizing the life and contributions of celebrated East Los Angeles educator Jaime Escalante. Escalante established a premier calculus program at Garfield High School in East Los Angeles during the late 1970s and 1980s, an achievement recognized nationally and portrayed in the film “Stand and Deliver.” He passed away March 30. “Jaime Escalante was not only an incredibly dedicated teacher, he was a symbol of what is possible for underprivileged youths across the country,” Napolitano said. “His dedication showed that students can reach the highest point of academic achievement regardless of their racial, social, or economic background. In East Los Angeles and across the nation, we mourn his passing and express our gratitude for his contributions.” Copy of Resolution: https://napolitano.house.gov/press_releases/Resolution_Honoring_Jaime_Escalante.pdf Copy of Statement for the Record:https://napolitano.house.gov/press_releases/Statement_For_the_Record_Jaime_Escalante.doc (###)
04.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace Napolitano encouraged her constituents in the 38th Congressional District to mail back their census forms before the deadline on Friday, April 16. More than $400 billion in federal funds is distributed each year based on the census count, providing money for schools, hospitals, job training, senior centers and many other government programs. Those that do not respond by mail will be visited by census takers to be counted in person. “The census is critical for securing federal funding for the schools, roads, and government services that our communities need,” Napolitano said. “Everyone should participate, but time is running out. Send in your census form or call in for a new one if you lost the original. Know that when you participate in the census, you are earning money for government services that help you and your family.” People in need of a new form can locate one of the dozens of “Be Counted” Centers in the 38th District by visiting https://2010.census.gov/2010census/take10map/ or they can call one of the following phone numbers: English: 1-866-872-6868Spanish: 1-866-928-2010Chinese: 1-866-935-2010Korean: 1-866-955-2010Russian: 1-866-965-2010Vietnamese: 1-866-945-2010TDD (Telephone Display Device for the hearing impaired): 1-866-783-2010 For the 2000 Census, Los Angeles County had a participation rate of 72 percent. As of April 12, the participation rate for 2010 was only 63 percent. “Please participate,” Napolitano said. “The census is almost finished and we cannot afford to be left short of services to our families, our schools, and our communities for the next ten years. Stand up and be counted.” (###)
04.14.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace Napolitano urged Californians to take advantage of the 25 different tax cuts in the Recovery Act, part of the more than $800 billion in tax cuts for working families and small businesses that Congress passed since last year. The Recovery Act included tax cuts for 95% percent of Americans, the largest individual piece of the act and one of the largest tax cuts in history. The act passed in February of 2009, but most of the cuts will only go into effect on tax day tomorrow. “These are the right kind of tax cuts, where the money goes where it is needed most,” Napolitano said. “With working families and small businesses able to take home more on tax day, there will be more money available to deal with hard times and encourage businesses to start hiring again.” Taxpayers in the 38th District and across the country can claim benefits on their 2009 tax returns, including: • The Making Work Pay tax credit – Ninety-five percent of working families are already receiving the Recovery Act’s Making Work Pay tax credit of $400 for an individual or $800 for married couples filing jointly in their 2009 paychecks – and will continue to see these benefits in 2010. In California’s 38th Congressional District, an estimated 230,000 families will benefit from the Making Work Pay tax credit, according to an analysis conducted by the Committee on Ways of Means. • Tax credits for college expenses – Families and students are eligible for up to $2,500 in tax savings under the American Opportunity Credit as well as enhanced benefits under 529 college savings plans, which helps families and students pay for college expenses. • Expanded family tax credits – Moderate income families with children may be eligible for an increase in the Earned Income Tax Credit and the additional Child Tax Credit. • Tax-free unemployment benefits – Thanks to the Recovery Act, individuals who received unemployment insurance in 2009 do not have to pay taxes on the first $2,400 of such earnings. • The First Time Homebuyers tax credit – First time homebuyers can get a credit of up to $8,000 for homes purchased by April 30, 2010 under the First Time Homebuyer tax credit. An estimated 199,092 households in California have already taken advantage of the First Time Homebuyers tax credit, according to the IRS. • Tax credits for energy efficient renovations – Taxpayers are eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for making energy-efficient improvements to their homes, such as adding insulation and installing energy efficient windows. • The vehicle sales tax deduction – Taxpayers can deduct the state and local sales taxes they paid for new vehicles purchased from Feb. 17, 2009 through Dec. 31, 2009 under the vehicle sales tax deduction. Those filing their taxes can use an online tax calculator to see what tax cuts they qualify for by visiting www.whitehouse.gov/recovery/tax-saving-tool. “The economy is still suffering, but the Recovery Act is working, if slower than hoped for,” Napolitano said. “We have already seen an increase in funding for construction projects and local schools throughout the year. Now on tax day, millions of Californians will have more money in their pockets to pay their bills, help put their kids through college, and give a needed boost to our economy.” (###)
04.12.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Tuesday, April 6, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano visited the UC Irvine campus to meet with students and researchers working on water issues and participate in an open forum with students who are focusing their studies on water. “It is critical for the well-being of our water supply that our scientists, students and law makers work closely and communicate on water issues,” Napolitano said. “The tremendous potential I have seen and heard today will only be realized if our brightest students know how to communicate with policy makers as they continue on in their careers. We do want to listen – it just takes a little extra effort on both sides to get the word across. I encourage water programs in campuses across the country to communicate more not only with one another, but with their elected representatives and policy makers as well.” The Congresswoman listened to presentations from a number of researchers and scientists, including James Famiglietti, who worked on the GRACE project that used satellite imaging to reveal dangerously low groundwater levels in California late last year. Napolitano also participated in an open forum entitled “Strengthening a Bridge between Policy Makers and Research,” in which students working in the many scientific and social fields related to water were free to ask the Congresswoman questions about water policy and the political process. Napolitano is the Chair of the Subcommittee on Water and Power. (###)
04.12.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Thursday, April 8, the Subcommittee on Water and Power, chaired by Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, and the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a joint field hearing entitled “On the Edge: Challenges Facing Grand Canyon National Park” at the Shrine of the Ages in Grand Canyon, Arizona. The hearing’s panel of expert witnesses discussed issues including the potential water quality impact of a proposed nearby uranium mine, the Colorado River Management Plan, the effects of Glen Canyon Dam on resource management and environmental mitigation efforts, and the link between environmental quality and visitor experience. “The Grand Canyon is both a national treasure and a critical junction for water flowing from the Rocky Mountains to farms and cities across California, Nevada, and Arizona,” Napolitano said. “What happens within the walls of this canyon has important consequences for everyone who lives downstream. We must protect the canyon’s natural beauty and ensure that its water continues to be safe and clean for the millions of people who depend on it.” “Today we have to decide whether, in the thirsty Southwest, the water of the Colorado River is more precious than uranium,” said Bill Hedden, Executive Director of the Grand Canyon Trust, referring to proposed uranium mining near the canyon. “Humans depend on the uncontaminated state of the water,” said Nikki Cooley, Program Manager for the Landsward Institute’s Native American River Guide and Cultural Interpretation Program at Northern Arizona University and a member of the Navajo tribe. “With such a tainted history, why are we continuing to expose and risk the health of our natural resources and people?” “We know what the stakes are,” Napolitano said. “We have seen in the past what the consequences of contamination can be. Without due caution, uranium mining could be disastrous for the park, the tribes who live here, and the millions of Americans who draw upon the Colorado River further downstream. Our tributaries and underground rivers cannot be exposed to contamination.” The Colorado River supplies about one-third of the water used in the Los Angeles Basin. Napolitano has been the Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee since the 110th Congress and has been a longtime proponent of water conservation and protection. In 1999, she led federal action to clean up uranium pilings that were leeching waste materials into the Colorado River near Moab, Utah. (###)
04.12.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On Friday, April 9, the Subcommittee on Water and Power, chaired by Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, held a field hearing entitled “Collaboration on the Colorado River: Lessons Learned to Meet Future Challenges,” at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. The hearing’s panel of expert witnesses examined how the seven Colorado River Basin states and the federal government have worked together on Colorado River water issues in the past and discussed what positive role the federal government should play in addressing water challenges in the future. "Cooperation is critical for delivering the Colorado River’s water to communities across the west,” Napolitano said. “Climate change and a growing population bring new challenges for an already strained source of water. With so many actors involved, we will only be able to make progress if we all pull in the same direction. The states and the federal government must continue to work together to ensure reliable water delivery for the thousands of farms and cities that depend on the Colorado River both in the United States and Mexico.” Seven different states (Arizona, Colorado, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming) and Mexico draw water from the Colorado River. According to the Bureau of Reclamation, the Colorado River Basin has been in a drought since October 1999. As of April 8, 2010, Lake Powell was at 56 percent capacity and Lake Mead was at 43 percent, and the basin is still in drought in spite of recent rains. “The Colorado River is significantly over-allocated,” said Patricia Mulroy, General Manager of the Southern Nevada Water Authority. “When coupled with projected growth, severe drought and predicted effects of climate change, this imbalance between supply and demand will likely become even greater in the future.” Data shows that between 1950 and 2003, average winter temperatures in the Colorado River Basin have increased by approximately 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. “History has shown that collaboration is a necessary ingredient for action in the Colorado River Basin,” said Jennifer Gimbel, Director of the Colorado Water Conservation Board. “States and interested stakeholders face many potential confrontations in each of the identified negotiations, however, the continued commitment to work through differences has succeeded in the past, and I strongly believe that negotiations can resolve existing and future disputes.” “It is clear that the Colorado River and those who count on it for water face new threats,” Napolitano said. “The economic viability of farms and communities across the west is at stake. All parties involved must build upon our shared history of cooperation and communication in order to meet these new challenges.” (###)
03.21.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass health care reform with a vote of 219 to 212 and an accompanying reconciliation bill by a vote of 220 to 211. Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted with honor and pride for the passage of the bill, a victory for millions of Americans who struggle daily with outrageous health insurance costs or lack health insurance coverage all together. “American families and small businesses have suffered from few choices and little control over their health care for far too long,” Napolitano said. “We have seen the efforts of seven presidents, decades of small gains, months of debate and we have finally passed health care reform. This historic bill, while not perfect, will reduce the cost of health care and force health insurance companies to deal fairly with the American people. “Once law, this reform bill will assist 30 million Americans currently without coverage, lower insurance costs for small businesses struggling with rising rates, allow people access to a health insurance pool of the same kind enjoyed by members of Congress, provide improved prescription drug coverage for seniors by closing the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole,’ allow young people to remain on their parents’ insurance plans until age 26, protect children from being denied care for pre-existing conditions, and create fraud and waste cutting provisions to lower future budget deficits. I urge the Senate to immediately pass the final revisions to the bill so the president can sign it into law – we cannot afford to wait a day longer.” On Thursday, the impartial Congressional Budget Office confirmed the health care reform bill passed by the House would cut the deficit by as much as $138 billion over the next ten years and by as much as $1.2 trillion over the decade after that. “Our country’s health care system has been out of control for decades,” Napolitano said. “The problem has always been pushed aside to deal with later – well, ‘later’ has finally arrived. We must act now, and this bill helps create a more fair and cost-effective health care system that will benefit all Americans for years to come.” Sixteen percent of Americans are without health insurance, and the problem is especially acute in California – on Tuesday, the Los Angeles Times reported that one in four Californians currently lack health insurance. The bill passed today is expected to expand coverage to 95% of Americans. According to a recent analysis conducted by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, the new legislation would have a dramatic impact for people living in California’s 38th Congressional District:• 115,500 people who are currently uninsured would be able to receive care.• 321,000 residents of the district would see improved health care in the form of lower costs from insurance companies, the elimination of lifetime coverage caps, cheaper preventive care and a ban on removing coverage due to pre-existing conditions. • 15,100 small businesses in the district would qualify for tax credits to lower the cost of health insurance.• 7,500 seniors stuck in the Medicare Part D “donut hole” would be able to have their prescription drug costs covered. • 18,900 people currently denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions would be able to receive care. • In 2008, 1,100 families in the 38th District were forced into bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. The health care reform bill caps out-of-pocket expenses to help prevent future bankruptcies caused by catastrophic illness or injury. The 38th Congressional District includes the cities of Industry, La Puente, Montebello, Pico Rivera, Norwalk, Pomona, Santa Fe Springs, Avocado Heights, Bassett, Hacienda Heights, South San Jose, Valinda, West Puente Valley, and portions of Whittier, South San Gabriel and East Los Angeles. (###)
03.19.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Congresswoman Napolitano said that residents of California’s 38th Congressional District would be major beneficiaries of health care reform under the proposal that will come to vote soon in the House of Representatives. “This bill would make a dramatic difference for businesses and families across my district,” Napolitano said. “Small businesses will be able to save money on health insurance, seniors will see the end of the ‘donut hole’ in their prescription drug coverage, and 115,500 people in the 38th District who are currently uninsured will be able to receive care.” Recent data from an analysis released by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce showed additional benefits to the 38th district: • 321,000 residents of the district would see improved health care in the form of lower costs from insurance companies, the elimination of lifetime coverage caps, cheaper preventive care and a ban on denying coverage due to pre-existing conditions. • 15,100 small businesses in the district would qualify for tax credits to lower the cost of health insurance.• 7,500 seniors stuck in the Medicare Part D “donut hole” would be able to get their prescription drugs paid for. • 18,900 people currently denied coverage due to pre-existing conditions would be able to receive care. • In 2008, 1,100 families in the 38th District were forced into bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. The current health care reform bill would cap out-of-pocket expenses to help prevent future bankruptcies caused by medical costs. Sixteen percent of Americans are without health insurance, and the problem is especially acute in California – on Tuesday, the Los Angeles Times reported that one in four Californians are currently without health insurance. Earlier this week, the impartial Congressional Budget Office confirmed that the current health care proposal would cut the deficit by as much as $138 billion over the next ten years and by as much as $1.2 trillion in the decade after that. “These are more than just numbers, these are human lives at stake,” Napolitano said. “These reform measures will save lives and keep down health care costs for years to come.” The 38th Congressional District includes the cities of Industry, La Puente, Montebello, Pico Rivera, Norwalk, Pomona, Santa Fe Springs, Avocado Heights, Bassett, Hacienda Heights, South San Jose, Valinda, West Puente Valley, and portions of Whittier, South San Gabriel and East Los Angeles. (###)
03.18.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Yesterday, as a prelude to Mental Health Month in May, co-chairs of the Mental Health Caucus Rep. Grace Napolitano and Rep. Tim Murphy convened congressional members, veterans groups, and mental health organizations to listen to a panel of representatives from each branch of the U.S. military describe their efforts in providing mental health services for returning military service members and their families. Those in attendance shared ideas and discussed how to communicate and work together more effectively. 10,000 troops per month began returning home at the beginning of March, and each presenter explained what they were doing to meet veterans’ mental health needs and prepare for future drawdowns in Iraq and Afghanistan. “Our wounded warriors have made great sacrifices for us abroad, and they have earned the right to the mental health services they need at home,” Napolitano said. “The military, government officials, and the organizations present here today must provide funding and support at every level, from Congress down to local communities, so that veterans and their families can restore their lives to some semblance of normalcy. We must be effective and responsive to avoid a dangerous waiting game for those soldiers who return home with mental health issues.” “We are here to listen,” Murphy said. “We are passionate in the Mental Health Caucus to help you in every way you need to help our service men and women.” Presenters agreed that given the continued rise in suicides, post-traumatic stress disorder, traumatic brain injury and alcohol misuse among returned military members, more must be done to meet their mental health needs. “We don’t necessarily need more programs, what we need is to make sure that the programs we have are reaching the people who need them,” said Colonel Elspeth Cameron Ritchie from the US Army’s Children’s Mental Health Program. “We need to focus on training all kinds of new mental health providers to meet the demand.” In January, the Army reported that more soldiers died by suicide than by enemy fire in Afghanistan and Iraq combined. It is estimated that 27 percent of service members returning home are at risk for mental health problems. “We need to attack the stigma surrounding mental health from the very top to the lowest level team leader,” said Greg Goldstein, Program Manager for the US Marine Corps Combat Operation Stress Control Program. “We are beginning to incorporate stress control into all facets of a marine’s life.” Future forums on mental health in the armed forces are being planned. The Mental Health Caucus will continue to examine military mental health issues at a briefing on May 13 during Mental Health Month. On May 6, the Caucus will hold a briefing for Children’s Mental Health Day, and on May 20, it will hold “Mental Health 101: Suicide Prevention Training on The Hill.” Mental Health Month was established last year when the House passed a Congressional Resolution authored by Napolitano. “As more soldiers return home with wounds that are mental as well as physical, our programs must provide them and their families with the healing and support they need,” Napolitano said. “We must help them readjust physically, financially, and mentally – our country owes them nothing less.” (###)
03.16.2010	(Washington D.C.)- As 10-question mailers for the U.S. Census were delivered to homes across California this week, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano urged residents to take part. “We should all participate in the census for the federal funding it brings to our communities,” Napolitano said. “Four hundred billion dollars a year is distributed to cities based on the census. We must all be counted, or there will be less funding for our schools, roads, hospitals and projects that create jobs. Know that when you participate in the census, you are earning money for government services that help you and your family.” The census counts U.S. residents every ten years to determine population growth and distribute federal funds and congressional seats accordingly. Areas where the population count decreases could see a loss in funding for government services and representation. Western states could lose the most due to their high percentages of Hispanics and young adults, groups who failed to return their forms in adequate numbers during the 2000 census. The ten-question census form is the shortest version ever used, and generally takes ten minutes or less to complete. The information is strictly confidential under federal law, and sharing with any other government agencies, including law enforcement, is forbidden. 13 million households will receive bilingual census forms in both English and Spanish. Forms are also available in Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, and Russian, and guides are available in 59 languages at 2010census.gov. “Please participate,” Napolitano said. “We must not be left short of services to our families, our schools, and our communities for the next ten years. Stand up and be counted.” (###)
03.04.2010	(Washington D.C.)- On February 25, 2010, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano was awarded the 2010 Distinguished Community Health Defender Award by the National Association of Community Health Centers in Washington, DC. Napolitano has been a long-time supporter of community health centers, which provide medical services for people who are low-income, without insurance, or otherwise have limited resources. “I am honored to receive this award, but the people who truly deserve our recognition are the doctors and nurses who work in our local health centers to help the most vulnerable and disadvantaged among us. Their efforts are an inspiration and a reminder that we need to do all that we can to provide both physical and mental health care to all the members of our community.” Napolitano’s 38th Congressional District is 27% uninsured and she is a strong supporter of health care reform. Her bill HR 2531, the Mental Health in Schools Act, provides mental health care services for students in need regardless of insurance or socioeconomic status. (###)
01.27.2010	“I applaud the President for focusing his full attention on creating jobs, however a speech is a speech and reality can be something completely different -- especially at the local level. The President must ensure that federal money for jobs is reaching the local level in the places where it can do the most to spur the economy. I encourage the administration to focus on upgrading our nation’s aging infrastructure as the best way to put people back to work. Investments in transportation, water supply, and other critical infrastructure will create jobs now and provide a foundation for future economic growth. “Increasing federal funding for education is another critical investment for the future, and I strongly support the President’s decision to improve the education of our schoolchildren and the retraining of our workforce. We cannot shortchange our children, workers, and future leaders because times are tough. We will only have a stable base for future economic growth when our children are fully educated and ready to compete in a world economy. “We cannot give up on health care reform, for the sakes of our families, our children, and our seniors. I hope that the President’s renewed commitment tonight will be picked up by my fellow lawmakers. Within the San Gabriel Valley alone, thousands remain uninsured and a single serious injury away from bankruptcy. Small businesses cannot bear the rising costs of premiums and too many seniors are left on their own when it comes to paying for prescription drugs. We cannot give up now and pass on a system to our children that bankrupts their pocketbooks and puts their lives at risk. I am strongly encouraged by the President’s words, and hope that he and the rest of Congress will move forward to make them a reality.” (###)
01.26.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Yesterday, the Subcommittee on Water and Power, headed by Congresswoman Grace Napolitano, held an oversight field hearing on California's water problems in the Metropolitan Water District boardroom in Los Angeles. Three panels of expert witnesses testified to the complexity of California’s water system and the effect its failures have had on water users ranging from farmers to fishermen to urban communities. It was clear from their testimony that California's water system is not up to the task of providing cheap, reliable water in times of drought. Looking to the future, witnesses identified long term trends of population growth and climate change that require new measures in conservation, water recycling, and reuse to make California's water supply more stable and reliable during future drought cycles. "We need to change the way we think about water. The public has to be informed and educated so that they know the facts, and realize that we have to look to new solutions for our future," Napolitano said. "Growing population and climate change mean that we need to continue to install water conservation, recycling, and reuse measures as a safety net for times when water is tight." “By 2050, scientists project a loss of at least 25 percent of the Sierra snowpack,” said Director of California’s Department of Water Resources Lester Snow, speaking about a critical source of water for the state that fills streams and underground aquifers. “Our new reality is that we must manage a resource characterized by uncertainty and vulnerability due to climate change.” "Drought in California is a fact of life," said Lucy Dunn, President of the Orange County Business Council. "Drought will return, and without investment the effect will be to hurt the quality of life and economic competitiveness of the state." "We have to do the most effective, most cost effective things first," said Dr. Peter Gleick, President of the Pacific Institute and an expert on water issues. "Improving the efficiency of our water use is the cheapest, easiest, fastest, and least destructive way to meet California’s current and future water supply needs." The hearing was held in Southern California due to the success local water agencies there have had in dealing with drought. Los Angeles cut its water usage 18.4% this summer, its lowest water usage in 18 years at a time when its population has increased by 500,000 people. San Diego and Riverside Counties reduced their water usage by 13%, and the city of Long Beach reduced its usage 21% from its ten-year average. "Here in Southern California, local governments and agencies have responded by partnering with state and Federal agencies to achieve tremendous reductions in per capita water use," said Mike Connor, Commissioner in the Bureau of Reclamation in the US Department of the Interior. "We know that an emphasis on water conservation is key to the sustainability of the state of California." “Despite the welcome recent rains and the good effort on local conservation, the underlying crisis remains and will be readily apparent in the months and years ahead,” said Jeffrey Kightlinger, General Manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. "It is clear that there is a critical role in California for assistance from Congress," Napolitano said. "We have listened to experts, government officials, and people whose livelihoods rely on the cheap flow of water and will continue to do so. With this knowledge we can work on behalf of California to support an efficient water system that provides cheap, reliable water even in times of drought." (###)
01.13.2010	(Washington D.C.)- Given growing demand for water, the rising cost of imported water, and the current drought crisis in California, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Chair of the Subcommittee on Water and Power, announced today that the Subcommittee will be holding an oversight field hearing on “Perspectives on California Water Supply: Challenges and Opportunities,” in Los Angeles, California on Monday, January 25, at the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California. The hearing will focus on southern California’s innovations for dealing with drought, their potential application for other parts of California, and statewide water problems that have been exacerbated by a rising demand for water and climate trends that make California’s water supply increasingly unreliable in times of drought. “The damage dealt by the drought is a statewide problem, and southern California has water-saving expertise it can share with the rest of the state,” Napolitano said. “The innovations southern California water agencies have developed can help our entire state deal with the drought and prepare for the future.” Communities across California are dealing with growing water demands and a water supply that continues to become more costly, less reliable and more vulnerable to drought. Many communities remain unprepared to deal with the drought or cope with future demands on their water supply. Southern California water agencies have led the way by developing water conservation, recycling, and reuse measures that help to deal with drought conditions and adapt to a drought cycle that has become less predictable due to climate change. The oversight hearing will explore these solutions and examine how they can be used in other areas of California. The Subcommittee on Water and Power will determine from expert testimony how California’s communities can best be assisted at the federal level. Related areas of inquiry will include groundwater supply and quality issues, water recycling and reuse, water conservation, impacts on Colorado River water supplies, and the continuing use of recycled water to reduce the need for expensive water imported from northern California. “If we want California to deal with this drought and come out strong enough to withstand the next one, we have to learn and take action,” Napolitano said. “Drought-fighting techniques can help provide us with a safety net for times when our water supply cannot deliver the water we need. Educating users on the critical importance of water conservation, becoming more efficient with our water, and finding ways to reduce demand are all necessary to ensure the stable, reliable water supply California needs to grow and prosper.” Subject: House Natural Resources Committee Subcommittee on Water and Power Oversight Field Hearing on “Perspectives on California Water Supply: Challenges and Opportunities” When: Monday, January 25, 2010, at 1:00 p.m. PST Where: Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, Boardroom 700 North Alameda Street Los Angeles, CA 90012 Witnesses: To be announced (###)
12.16.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano introduced HR 4349, the Hoover Power Allocation Act of 2009, which will allow Nevada, Arizona, and the California cities of Pasadena, Glendale, Burbank, Anaheim, Azusa, Banning, Colton, Riverside and Vernon continued access to electricity from the Hoover Dam, some of the cheapest and cleanest power in the country. The bill also includes historic new provisions that will allow Native American tribes to access the dam’s power for the first time. Hoover Dam power allocations for state utilities and municipalities were last authorized in 1984, and are set to expire in 2017. This bill allows the Hoover Dam to continue to provide power through the year 2067. Reauthorizing Hoover power allocations early is necessary in order for electric and water utilities to meet future planning requirements, ensure effective regional transmission planning, and provide reliable water deliveries. In previous authorizations, Native American organizations were not eligible to receive power allocations from the Hoover Dam. This latest authorization will allow them new access to electricity, along with irrigation districts, military installations, municipal agencies, and other entities that were previously unable to use power generated by the dam. “This bill will allow the Hoover Dam to continue supplying power that is clean and inexpensive, and give Native American tribes new access to its electricity,” Napolitano said. “29 million residents in California, Arizona, and Nevada and thousands of Native Americans will be able to depend on the Hoover Dam for power for another 50 years.” Rep. Napolitano is the Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee in the U.S. House of Representatives. An identical Senate version of the bill (S. 2891) has been introduced by Sen. Harry Reid, and has the support of California Sens. Feinstein and Boxer. (###)
12.14.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano congratulated three local students who were selected to receive the prestigious Fulbright Award. The Fulbright Program was established by Congress in 1946 to promote mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the rest of the world. Selected students study, lecture, teach or conduct research in other country for a full academic year. The Fulbright Program currently operates in more than 140 countries. “I congratulate the three Fulbright award recipients from our area for their tremendous achievement. I am proud that our communities have produced such distinguished students, and I know that they will represent us and make California proud as they teach and conduct research around the world. Younger students should take encouragement from their example, and I urge our students to take advantage of the federally funded programs that allow them to teach and study abroad.” The following individuals received the award: Dr. Wai Kit Choi, from Montebello, educated at California State Univeristy, Los Angeles, working on Sociology and Social Work in Hong Kong, 9/2009 to 4/2010. Ms. Diana Lira, from La Puente, educated at California State University, Fullerton, working on Business/Management in Mexico, 9/2009 to 6/2010. Dr. Renford Reese, from Pomona, educated at California State Polytechnic University, Pomona, working on Political Science in Hong Kong, 9/2009 to 2/2010. (###)
12.03.2009	(Washington D.C.)- The Department of Water Resources recently announced that it would only be able to supply 5% of the water requested by California communities and irrigation districts, due to drought risk in the upcoming year. This was the smallest water allocation released by the DWR since its creation in 1967. Rep. Grace F. Napolitano, Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee, made the following statement in response: “California is facing an ongoing water crisis, and we need to continue to prepare ourselves and our communities for the possibility of another dry year. Water recycling, reuse, and education on water conservation are some of the solutions we need to continue to work on to safeguard our precious water supply. It is going to take all of our water agencies working together at the local, county, and state levels along with the federal government to meet this challenge.” Rep. Napolitano will be holding a congressional hearing addressing California’s water crisis in Los Angeles in January. More details to be announced later. (###)
12.01.2009	“We need to bring our soldiers home to their families. As in Iraq, and now in Afghanistan, we are pumping money halfway across the world while our own economy remains in a deep recession. Our local communities are trying to stabilize their housing markets, get loans to small businesses, and create opportunities for those looking for work, and funding that could be supporting their efforts is going overseas. We can help the Afghanis stand on their own, but we do not need to send more troops and we do not need to spend billions more dollars when we have our own problems here at home.” (###)
11.18.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Grace Napolitano welcomed news today that several organizations which conduct job training in the 38th District will be receiving a total of $298,122 in grants from the Department of Labor to train local young people to work in green industries such as solar power, water conservation, and energy efficiency. “These programs will help prepare our young people to take advantage of new green jobs,” Napolitano said. “Evolving green industries are going to provide new economic opportunities in the years ahead, and it is critical for our hard-hit communities that our youngsters be trained and ready to fill those jobs as they appear. While I am pleased to see that our area continues to receive funding and attention, and I applaud the leadership of Secretary Solis and the Administration, I look forward to continued funding and assistance in helping our citizens get back to work.” The grants distributed were part of a larger $1,130,306 block of funds that went out to green job training projects across California. In addition to the green jobs training grants, the California Employment Development Department also received $1.25 million to estimate the number of green jobs in California, recognize emerging occupations in the green industries, and identify the best way to teach the job skills required for those jobs. “Today’s announcement is part of the Administration’s long-term commitment to fostering both immediate economic growth and a clean energy future. It’s an investment that will help American workers do well while doing good,” said Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. “These grants provide an immediate return, and they are the beginning of a larger green initiative that will lead to increased job placements and promote economic growth.” Some local grant recipients and contacts: Los Angeles Communities Advocating for Unity, Social Justice and Action (LACAUSA)Roberto Zardeneta(323) 887-2500 San Gabriel Valley Conservation and Service CorpsFrank Alvarez(626) 444-5337 Women in Non-Traditional Employment Roles (WINTER)Bertha Campos(213) 749-3970 (###)
11.10.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement regarding the California water legislation package signed yesterday by Gov. Schwarzenegger: “Congratulations to California lawmakers for creating the water legislation we need to ensure California’s economic future. Important provisions for water recycling, conservation, and groundwater clean up will address our drought crisis and prepare our communities for the challenges they will face for decades to come. I look forward to supporting this effort at the federal level and giving California the full support of Congress in solving its water problems.” (###)
11.07.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano voted in support of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which will extend access to health care to millions of Americans currently uninsured, dramatically improve health care for those already covered, and ultimately reduce the federal deficit by $30 billion over the next ten years. “This is the health care reform bill Americans elected us to pass,” Napolitano said. “It has taken years of research and deliberation, consideration of ideas from both sides, and the efforts of seven presidents, but we are finally addressing this country’s health care problem. Once this bill is passed and signed into law, families will no longer have to live in fear of bankruptcy caused by an illness or accident, businesses will not have to bear the burden of rising health care costs, and the most vulnerable in our communities will finally be given some measure of protection. Health care reform must not be put off any longer, and it is critical that this bill pass the Senate and be signed into law.” Napolitano’s 38th Congressional District, which includes the cities of Norwalk, Montebello, Pico Rivera, Santa Fe Springs and La Puente, has a population that is 27% uninsured compared to the national average of 15%. In the 38th District, the bill is estimated to protect 1,100 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs per year, reduce the cost to hospitals for uncompensated emergency room visits by $27 million, and close the Medicare prescription drug donut hole for 7,500 seniors who currently pay out of pocket. “This bill will provide coverage for more than 121,000 people in my district who are uninsured, and it will reduce the premiums for thousands more,” Napolitano said. “It’s not one hundred percent of what many hoped for, but it will mean a lot to those who currently have no health care coverage, who are just one accident or illness away from catastrophe and the loss of their life savings.” Napolitano also welcomed the mental health provisions provided in the bill, which make mental health an essential part of basic coverage, fund new screening programs to catch mental health problems early, and encourage care for suicide attempt survivors and individuals with serious mental illness. “Increasingly, mental health is as important as physical health for the happiness and success of our youngsters, our families, our communities and our returning vets,” Napolitano said. “The mental health provisions in this bill are a victory for anyone who’s seen a friend or family member affected by mental health issues.” Rep. Napolitano is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, and has been a supporter of the public option since she signed onto a public letter of support with fellow progressive lawmakers in July. (###)
10.29.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Grace F. Napolitano applauded yesterday as mental health programs included in the 2010 fiscal authorization for the Department of Defense were signed into law by President Barack Obama. Napolitano heralded the new funding for the detection and treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as a victory for our men and women in uniform. “This is great news for our soldiers, who will finally get some of the support and protection they need,” Napolitano said. “Full recovery requires both mental and physical health care, and it is time that we gave our troops the treatment they have earned through their service to our country.” Napolitano was a co-signer of a letter in August that encouraged House leadership to include a comprehensive screening program for post-traumatic stress disorder in the 2010 funding for the Department of Defense. Also funded were counseling programs for National Guard members and their families, and increased scholarships for military personnel pursuing mental health professions. Department of Veterans Affairs statistics for 2008 show that forty-five percent of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans had a possible mental health diagnosis, and twenty-three percent showed symptoms of PTSD. Suicides among these soldiers have been on the rise, signaling the emergence of a mental health crisis among military personnel and returning veterans. “These programs should only be the beginning,” Napolitano said. “This war is bringing home a new kind of trauma, and we owe it to our warriors to provide them with the care they need. We must help restore them to some semblance of normalcy, for them, for their families, and for our communities.” (###)
10.28.2009	(Pico Rivera, CA) – An estimated 3000-5000 people attended Rep. Grace Napolitano’s 3rd annual job fair at El Rancho High School on Saturday, Oct. 24, each looking for work, help with their resume, or just a chance to meet face-to-face with a hiring employer. Participants met with government agencies, private employers, and received free hair cuts and other services. “This is what an event should look like, when all the partners come together,” Napolitano said to the crowd. “Your taxes pay for these resources, so use them, hold us accountable.” Participants at the job fair included the Norwalk Employment Development Department, the U.S. Census, California Highway Patrol, the County of Los Angeles, the Internal Revenue Service, and many private employers, including local drug stores, retail outlets, package delivery services, passenger rail services and other businesses looking to hire. The American GI forum and Veteran’s Administration were there to provide services to veterans, and Montebello Beauty College provided free hair cuts to those job-seekers looking to make a good first impression. “It’s interesting to see how everyone here is helped,” said Antonio Cardenas, a resident of nearby Santa Fe Springs. “Hopefully I can get a job now after being laid off for two months,” said another man who arrived looking for work. “This was the highest turnout we’ve ever had,” said Ben Cardenas, Napolitano’s District Director. “It just shows what a great need there is for jobs, and we were grateful to have so many employers on hand willing to hire.” (###)
10.15.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-Santa Fe Springs) welcomed the passage in the House today of HR 2442, the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program Expansion Act of 2009. The projects authorized in the bill will provide 2.6 billion gallons of water per year for California, enough water to provide for more than 24,000 households. Napolitano was joined both Democratic and Republican representatives in passing the bill 241 to 173. “The more cities in Northern California prepare for future drought cycles, the better it is for all of California,” Napolitano said. “Water is a resource that binds this state together, and using recycling to reduce demand on our fresh water supplies relieves the strain felt by our cities, our farmers and our economy. This is a bill that is going to help the entire state.” Rep. Napolitano chairs the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power and sits on the Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment. She has been a long time proponent of water recycling in the state of California. (###)
09.22.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano joined other members of the House of Representatives today in passing a thirteen-week extension of unemployment benefits for the 29 states and territories with unemployment rates greater than 8.5%. In California, which reported an unemployment rate of 12.2% in August, 68,713 people will be without benefits by the end of September and 154,328 by the end of December unless this legislation is signed into law. “This is great news for Californians,” Napolitano said. “This bill is being fast-tracked and will provide a safety net for the unemployed until economic growth makes more jobs available.” The benefits are being funded by a one-year extension of the federal unemployment tax, a tax more than three decades old that currently costs employers $14 per year, per employee. There are currently more than six unemployed workers for each job opening, and the number of workers unemployed for longer than six months nationwide is at an all-time high of 5 million. (###)
09.16.2009	Yesterday Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano hosted her Mental Health Summit as part of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute’s Hispanic Heritage Month events in Washington, DC. The Congresswoman, who co-chairs the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, was joined by the Honorable Patricia A. Macias, Presiding Judge of the 388th Family District Court in Texas and former president of the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges, Dr. Anita Chandra, behaviorial scientist and child and adolescent health expert from the RAND Corporation, Jackie Contreras, child psychologist and managing director for strategic consulting at Casey Family Programs, Kathi Grasso, senior juvenile justice policy and legal advisor at the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, and Dr. Panayiota Courelli, psychologist and director of the Foster Grandparent Program in the California Division of Juvenile Justice. The panel discussed youth mental health needs and the public system, the impact on Latino youth in particular, and the Mental Health in Schools Act, a bill introduced by Napolitano that would provide mental health services to select schools. “We need to remove the stigma surrounding mental health – too often, especially in Latino culture, it is the problem we don’t see, we don’t hear, we don’t talk about,” Napolitano said. “It is up to us as a community to remove that stigma, and we need health care providers, public institutions, advocacy organizations and our own families to all work together.” The importance of this message was echoed by the other participants. Judge Macias noted that even when youth did have access to mental health care they were often too afraid of being scorned by their friends and family to take advantage of it. Dr. Chandra described a need to “start thinking of maintaining our daily mental health as being as normal and necessary as maintaining our daily physical health.” “In some communities, we are at risk for losing an entire generation of youngsters,” Napolitano said, highlighting the importance of the Mental Health in Schools Act in combating mental health problems in children. The entire panel agreed that there was a need for increased financing and attention for mental health programs. Dr. Chandra described the “dearth of mental health care professionals” in the United States, which contributes to incarceration, substance abuse, and other social problems. Contreras vividly described what was at stake with a story about a student who committed suicide at school, saying it could have been averted if the student had been helped after expressing his feelings instead of being shunned. Dr. Courelli described how properly funded mental health programs can rehabilitate incarcerated youth. “Effective mental health programs can build self-esteem, confidence, consciousness of the needs of others and an understanding of how to repay social debt,” Dr. Courelli said. Napolitano ended the discussion with a call to action. “Children don’t vote,” she said. “So it is up to us and the entire community to make mental health a priority so that they can lead normal, productive lives.” (###)
09.09.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano joined her fellow lawmakers today in passing a resolution honoring the firefighters and first responders of the Southern California wildfires and mourning the loss of Firefighter Captain Tedmund “Ted” Hall and Firefighter Specialist Arnaldo “Arnie” Quinones. “We owe the firemen who lost their lives in this fire a tremendous debt of gratitude. My deepest condolences go to their families, and my prayers are with those firefighters and first responders still facing danger on our behalf. Their efforts have prevented unthinkable destruction and loss of life, and I am grateful for all that they have done so that we may be safe.” (###)
08.06.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement today regarding the Senate’s confirmation of Sonia Sotomayor: “Sonia Sotomayor is an accomplished, hardworking, and intelligent jurist and the right person for appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court. Her achievement is an inspiration for all Americans, and I am very pleased she is the newest justice on the United States Supreme Court.” (###)
07.30.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano welcomed news last week of the U.S. Senate’s confirmation of former Pomona Unified School District Superintendent Thelma Melendez as the Department of Education’s Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education. Napolitano has been a longtime supporter of Melendez and encouraged her to apply for a position in the administration. “In the years that I have known her, Thelma Melendez has shown herself to be a remarkable human being, a strong woman, and a dedicated public servant. On behalf of the 38th Congressional District of California, I congratulate Thelma and her family on her momentous appointment. I am very proud Pomona can claim such a committed educator. Education Secretary Arne Duncan and President Barack Obama have made a wise and excellent choice, and their policy of reaching out to local communities for talent serves our country well.” Melendez had served as Superintendent for the Pomona Unified School District since 2006, overseeing 33,000 students in more than 40 schools. She earned her bachelor’s degree in sociology from UCLA and her doctorate in language, literacy and learning from USC. Last November, she was named Superintendent of the Year by the Association of California School Administrators. In her new position, Melendez will serve as a top advisor to Education Secretary Arne Duncan. A major priority for the Obama Administration will be helping the nation’s elementary and secondary schools by improving the No Child Left Behind Act. (###)
07.28.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement today regarding the Senate Judiciary Committee’s vote to approve Sonia Sotomayor: “The time of grandstanding and scoring political points is finally over, and Sonia Sotomayor has come out stronger than ever before. She has proven her spirit, intelligence, and exceptional qualifications, and I urge the Senate to act quickly to put her on the Supreme Court where she belongs.” (###)
07.15.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Grace F. Napolitano released the following statement regarding the confirmation process of Supreme Court nominee Sonia Sotomayor: “Sonia Sotomayor has overcome many challenges to become an incredibly qualified and accomplished nominee for the U.S. Supreme Court. She has a remarkable legal mind and as much federal judicial experience as any justice nominated in the last 100 years. If her opponents this week look like they are having a hard time finding something to pin on her, here is why: Sotomayor is an exceptionally qualified candidate, and she deserves a fair and timely confirmation in the tradition of her peers.” (###)
07.15.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Rep. Grace F. Napolitano welcomed news of the Department of the Interior’s investment of $132,334,693 in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funds in 26 water recycling and desalination projects throughout California. Several local water projects will receive a portion of the funds, including water recycling plants in Industry, the Inland Empire, and the San Gabriel Valley. “The projects funded with this money will help stabilize our water supply and create good-paying, long-term jobs,” Napolitano said. “With more water being recycled here and less being pumped in from outside, we can reduce the use of costly imported water, keep our water jobs local and secure the water supply our community needs.” Congresswoman Napolitano has been the Chair of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power for more than two years, and is also a member of Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment. (###)
07.08.2009	(Washington D.C.)- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) voted today in favor of H.R. 2965, the Enhancing Small Business Innovation and Research Act. This bill modernizes the Small Business Administration’s research and development programs. The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs help launch 1,500 new firms a year, and the new legislation seeks to improve them by increasing participation, providing new funding, and expanding access for women, minorities, veterans, and other entrepreneurs that are not currently using the programs to their full potential. “Investing in small business innovation is the most effective way to create new jobs,” Napolitano said. “This bill will mean more jobs for our families, more prosperity for our communities and more opportunity for entrepreneurs of every background to help rebuild our economy.” The SBIR and SBTT programs will also become more streamlined and efficient, more widely available to small businesses, and newly focused on bringing new products and services to market quickly. For the first time, they will reach out to rural entrepreneurs and small businesses owned by women, minorities and veterans who have not made full use of the programs in the past. “An effective recovery is one that gives every member of the community a chance to contribute,” Napolitano said. “These programs ensure that all entrepreneurs and small business owners will have the opportunity to build their businesses and invest in our economy.” Since 1992, the SBIR and STTR programs have awarded 65,000 grants to companies across the nation, and currently invest $2.2 billion in small businesses every year. For more information about SBIR and STTR, visit www.sbir.gov. (###)
07.02.2009	(Norwalk, CA) Today Representative Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-34), Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA-31) and Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-39) issued the following statement in response to calls from the Mexican American Political Association urging immigrants to boycott the 2010 Census: “As Members of Congress from California, we have been working for years to ensure that the Census 2010 provides a fair and equal count of all our communities. Without an accurate portrait of our state, we cannot address the needs of our diverse population. A boycott would be a significant step backward in the progress we have made to make sure Latinos, and indeed, all minorities, are treated equally. To not be counted would disenfranchise our communities and jeopardize vital resources, including federal funding for schools, health care, job training and infrastructure, all of which are critical to the growing Latino population in California. “While immigration reform is a very important issue that we support and must be addressed, the long-term consequences of not being counted would have an impact in the lives of our families throughout the next decade. President Obama has put his weight behind comprehensive immigration reform, and we must continue working together to accomplish this goal. In the meantime, we encourage every community to be counted in the 2010 Census.” Services such as Head Start programs, public daycare for children, school lunch programs, public schools, public transportation, public emergency rooms and hospitals, just to name a few, are based on money received from federal funds, which is based on the number of people living in each state, as counted by the Census. An accurate count helps the federal government allocate approximately more than $300 billion of federal funds annually for these and other programs and services in the states. ####
06.30.2009	(Pomona, CA) Congresswoman Grace Napolitano welcomes the arrival of the Big Read program to the Pomona Public Library, a program that brings together readers of all ages to read, enjoy, and discuss Jack London’s Call of the Wild. The program runs between September 2009 and June 2010. Big Read is funded by the National Endowment for the Arts, which awarded the Pomona Public Library a $17,500 matching grant to provide reader’s guides, audio, teaching materials, and a comprehensive website for everyone who participates. The Library is one of 272 organizations nationwide selected to host the reading program. If you’d like to participate or learn more about the Big Read program, stop by the Pomona Public Library at 625 S. Garey Ave or visit www.neabigread.org. ###
06.12.2009	(Washington, DC) The House of Representatives passed H.R. 1256, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act today by a vote of 307 to 97. The Senate passed the legislation yesterday and the bill will go directly to President Obama, who has said that he will sign the legislation. Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) issued the following statement: The Congress passed critical legislation today to protect the health of our children from the dangers of smoking. As many as 3,500 American children try their first cigarette each day and this legislation will give the U.S. Food and Drug Administration the authority to end marketing aimed at young people and to regulate the deadly, addictive chemicals in cigarettes. This legislation will save lives, improve the health and well being of America’s children and start putting some of the $193 billion lost each year due to lost productivity and smoking related healthcare expenditures back to work for the American people. # # # #
06.03.2009	(Washington, DC) H. Res. 437, supporting the goal and ideals of Mental Health Month, was passed by the House today by a voice vote. Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) introduced this resolution to draw attention to the problems caused by untreated mental illnesses. Rep. Napolitano issued the following statement: Recognizing May as National Mental Health Month will give this critical issue the attention it deserves and help to erase the stigma surrounding mental illness. The U.S. Surgeon General estimates that more than 57 million Americans suffer from mental illness and the National Institute of Mental Health reports that mental health issues cost the nation more than $192 billion per year in lost earnings. This is a problem that is getting worse, not better. We must work together to remove the stigma so that our loved ones can get the assistance they need when they need it most. National Mental Health Month will increase understanding and awareness of this issue so that we can help all Americans to lead healthy and productive lives. Please visit www.napolitano.house.gov to view Rep. Napolitano’s speech on the floor of the House. Rep. Napolitano is co-chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus. # # # #
06.02.2009	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk), Co-Chair of the Congressional Mental Health Caucus, introduced the Mental Health in Schools Act on May 20, 2009. This legislation would authorize $200 million in competitive grants to local education agencies to assist them in implementing effective delivery of comprehensive mental health services for students (K-12), administered by state licensed or certified mental health professionals on site. “Research and statistics convey an alarming truth: approximately one in five children have a diagnosable mental disorder. We must act now to ensure that mental health professionals can provide care for children in need of assistance in dealing with psychological and emotional problems,” explained Napolitano. Congresswoman Napolitano was joined by 20 of her colleagues as original co-sponsors. The legislation proposes to: · Promote positive mental health education and training to all students, parents, siblings of students, and concerned members of the community; · Help school districts identify and support students and parents in need of mental health care and those at-risk of behavioral mental health disorders, allowing teachers to concentrate on teaching; · Ensure that schools provide culturally and linguistically appropriate services and comprehensive staff development for school and community service personnel; · Increase collaboration between schools, health providers and communities through coalition building; · Require schools to apply a public health approach that incorporates positive behavioral interventions and supports, targeting all students; · Require schools to thoroughly document measures of outcome and demonstrate the actions they are taking to sustain the program independently of grant funds; · Require schools to account for the needs of youth who drop out of schools due to “zero tolerance policies,” and those who have been incarcerated or are emancipated as foster youth. “Studies show that it is not the treatment of mental illnesses that is expensive, rather, it is the failure to treat them,” noted Napolitano. “Enacting this legislation will be of great benefit to society, allowing mental health professionals to care for our kids, and teachers to concentrate on teaching, while reducing family conflict, substance abuse, violence, incarceration, and suicide.” “Mental illnesses are diagnosable and treatable, and Congress must act not only to erase the stigma, but also to provide our children with the support they need to thrive as healthy and productive citizens.” # # #
04.30.2009	The Credit Card Holder’s Bill of Rights (HR 627) ends the worst of the unfair and deceptive practices that are an everyday part of business for the credit card companies. Banning retroactive rate hikes on existing balances and requiring 45 days’ notice before rate hikes on new purchases are common sense and a just and fair way to protect American consumers. Also, credit card companies should not be in the business of giving credit cards to children. It is unfortunate that we even need to pass regulations stopping companies from issuing cards to most minors. I believe that a “deal is a deal” and that credit card companies should not be allowed to increase people’s rates whenever they want with little notice. # # # #
03.25.2009	
03.24.2009	(Washington, DC) On March 24th, Rep. Napolitano was given an Award of Merit by the American Water Works Association (AWWA). The award is given to “recognize achievement of those outside the water profession who have demonstrated outstanding service in support of the principles of AWWA in providing better water for people.” Rep. Napolitano is chair of the House Water and Power Subcommittee and Co-Chair of the House Water Caucus. # # # #
03.19.2009	(Pomona, CA) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) joined President Barack Obama today as he toured Southern California Edison’s electric vehicle technical center in Pomona in the 38th District. Our region has been developing a green economy for years and I am delighted President Obama is visiting a facility where that work is being carried out. Southern California Edison’s testing facility in Pomona is one of only two U.S. Department of Energy test sites in the nation that is approved to evaluate the baseline performance of any and all electric vehicles. Green jobs are being created right here and workers are preparing the way for the next generation of electric and hybrid cars. # # # #
02.25.2009	(Washington, DC) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) voted today for the Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009 (H.R. 1105). The legislation passed 243-177 and will now go to the Senate. Rep. Napolitano worked to make sure that the legislation provided crucial funding to more than a dozen projects critical to the long term economic prosperity of the 38th District. Projects requested by Rep. Napolitano in H.R. 1105 include: · Norwalk/Santa Fe Springs Transit Center Improvements - $475,000 · Pomona SR-71 expansion from SR 60 to I-10 - $475,000 · Pomona Groundwater Cleanup – Perchlorate, VOC and n-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) Treatment for Chino Basin Wells - $400,000 · City of Norwalk Water Infrastructure Reliability Program - $119,000 · Norwalk Public Safety Department Computer Aided Dispatching and Records Management System - $170,000 · Norwalk Transit Agency for new Hybrid Buses - $29,000 · Montebello Bus Lines for new Hybrid Buses - $82,650 · Montebello Police Department P25 Compliant Portable Radios: $180,000 · Pacific Clinics, Arcadia; School-based adolescent mental health services - $466,000 · Eastmont Community Center, LA; After School Learning Program - $57,000 · Cerritos College, Norwalk; The Realtime Writers and Captioning Training Project - $95,000 · Phoenix House Santa Fe Springs, CA Drug Treatment for Women - $200,000 · Pomona Fairplex Trade and Conference Center – $300,000 · San Gabriel Basin Restoration Fund - $3.5 million · Foothill Transit CNG Buses Joint Request - $1,187,500 Cope Health Solutions, Los Angeles; Re-entry for Foreign Trained Nurses - $ 86,000 # # #
01.28.2009	(Washington, DC) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) was re-appointed Chair of the House Water & Power Subcommittee. She is also the sixth ranking Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee. The Water & Power Subcommittee has jurisdiction over crucial areas of water policy, including irrigation and water recycling for seventeen Western states and the hydropower grid for the entire United States. As Chair, Rep. Napolitano pledged to continue to a strong federal investment in our long term water infrastructure, especially in the critical areas of conservation and recycling, while providing a stimulus for job development and creation. “Water conservation and recycling projects are vital to the long term economic future of our communities – businesses cannot prosper without a secure supply of water,” said the Congresswoman. “It is also the key to avoiding costly customer rate increases.” She added, “I thank Chairman Rahall for his leadership and steadfast protection of our nation’s natural resources. I look forward to working with him and other subcommittee chairs and with the new direction from the administration to be more protective of our nation’s precious resources, especially from the impact of global warming.” # # #
01.21.2009	Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) issued the following statement on Secretary Ken Salazar’s confirmation by a voice vote in the Senate: “My most heartfelt congratulations to Secretary Ken Salazar on his confirmation and gratitude to the Senate for recognizing such a valuable Senator and moving swiftly to fill this critical position. One of America’s most pressing issues, especially in Western states, is securing our long term water supply. Without water, there can be no economic growth. Secretary Salazar’s experience as a Senator from Colorado has given him an intimate understanding of the value of this resource and of other challenges and the opportunities we face. As Chairwoman of the House Water & Power Subcommittee, I know I can work with him to support critical investments in our water infrastructure to create jobs and protect our long-term prosperity.” # # #
12.16.2008	(Washington DC) – The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) praised the appointment of Nancy Sutley to head the White House Council on Environmental Quality. She currently serves as the Deputy Mayor in Los Angeles on Energy and the Environment, and is of Argentinean descent. She is also is the first openly gay person appointed by the Obama administration. “Nancy Sutley has served California and the nation well, and I look forward to seeing her talents at work for our country again,” said Congressman Joe Baca (CA-43), Chair of the CHC. “As part of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, and in various other roles in my home state, she has helped improve the state’s use of energy and resources. Her work will be invaluable in moving our nation’s energy policy forward.” “I am pleased that President-elect Obama has appointed Nancy Sutley to head the White House Council on Environmental Quality. Ms. Sutley brings excellence and diversity to the Administration, both of which are particularly important given the impact of the environment on the health and welfare of communities of color,” said Congresswoman Hilda L. Solis (CA-32) Chair of the CHC Task Force on Health and the Environment, and the 2nd Vice Chair-elect of the CHC. “I look forward to working with the President-elect, Ms. Sutley, and all the members of the Administration to advance the needs of families across our nation.” "President-elect Obama keeps recruiting the best of the best, including among our fellow Latinos. I have no doubt that the Obama Administration will be the most diverse to date, reflecting--as it should--the true fabric of America,” added Congressman-elect Pedro Pierluisi (PR). # # # The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) is comprised of Members of Congress of Hispanic descent. Since 1976 the CHC has been addressing the needs of the Hispanic community in all areas of American life. For more information on the CHC, call (202) 225-2410.www.house.gov/baca/chc
12.13.2008	(La Puente, CA) Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano joined over 1,400 attendees for the 12th Annual Bassett Park Christmas Dinner & Toy Giveaway. Over 900 toys were distributed to children in the Bassett Unified School District. Congresswoman Napolitano was joined by Supervisor Gloria Molina to welcome families and share in the festivities. A Congressional certificate of recognition was presented to event founder, Ricardo Mira on behalf of the Bassett Parks and Recreation to honor his dedication and service to the community. To learn more about how you can participate or to donate toys in the future you may contact Carmen Sepulveda at (626) 622-4933. ###
12.01.2008	(Irvine, CA) On Monday, December 1st, Rep. Napolitano addressed the participants of the International Conference on Water Scarcity, Global Changes, and Groundwater Management Responses at the Student Conference Center of the University of California, Irvine. Conference participants came from around the world and included representative of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), International Health Programs (IHP) and the United States Geological Survey (USGS). As chair of the House Water and Power Subcommittee, the Congresswoman spoke about the need to invest in state and federal programs that address our nation’s water infrastructure. Recent cuts to programs water recycling programs have created a backlog of projects, she said, but expressed hope that the new Congress would pass stimulus package that included significant funds for water infrastructure. “We need to get ahead of the crisis and provide tools to address water challenges,” Rep. Napolitano added. For more information on the event, please visit www.waterunifies.com # # #
10.06.2008	Without changes to insure that taxpayers do not foot the bill for Wall Street’s mistakes and that real relief is provided to Main Street and working families, I cannot not support this legislation. We need a bailout package that that focuses on helping families keep their homes and helping small businesses. This bill does not include language to allow bankruptcy judges to restructure mortgage payments to help families in danger of foreclosure. The bankruptcy provision would have made this a much better deal for middle class families. My constituents have been vocal and clear in opposing this bailout when they have called my office. I join my constituents in opposition to this bailout.
09.26.2008	(Washington, DC) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA) voted to approve HR 7110, the Job Creation and Unemployment Relief Act of 2008, a $60.8 billion economic stimulus package that makes important investments in our nation’s water infrastructure, including $126 million for critical water recycling projects to help California and other Western states that have been severely affected by drought. The funds will be administered through the Bureau of Reclamation's water reclamation and recycling program, known as Title XVI, to assist communities in securing their long term water supply. The legislation passed by a vote 264-158 on September 26, 2008. “The current drought situation makes this investment more important than ever,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Repairing and expanding our water infrastructure is vital to our economy. This legislation will create jobs in the short term and make our water supply more secure by helping address the long term issues of drought and global climate change. It also assists the Bureau of Reclamation to address an backlog of almost $500 million in congressionally authorized projects.” As Chair of the House Water and Power Subcommittee and a Co-Chair of the Congressional Water Caucus, Rep. Napolitano has been a leader on water conservation and recycling. She contacted Chairman David Obey (D-WI) and ranking member Jerry Lewis (R-CA) of the House Appropriations Committee this summer to explain the importance of investing in our nation’s water infrastructure. Rep. Napolitano thanked Chairman Obey and Rep. Lewis for helping make sure that these critical funds were included in the legislation. “The new, Democratic Congress is taking water issues very seriously,” Rep. Napolitano added. “By investing in recycling, we can reduce Southern California’s dependence on the Bay Delta and move towards true water security.” The bill also invests renewable energy and energy efficiency, affordable housing, our highways and public transportation. The legislation will now go to the Senate for consideration. HR 7110: The Job Creation and Unemployment Relief Act of 2008 Investments – Job Training: $500 million to help Americans find and prepare for good jobs including $400 million is for dislocated worker and youth employment activities and $100 million to provide customized help to folks receiving unemployment benefits. Unemployment claims have increased by over 38% this year and 36% exhaust their benefits before finding work. Extension of Unemployment Benefits: Provides an additional 7 weeks of extended benefits for workers who have exhausted regular unemployment compensation (20 total weeks). Workers in high unemployment states are eligible for an additional 13 weeks of benefits (33 total weeks). Extending unemployment benefits is one of the quickest, most cost-effective forms of economic stimulus because workers who have lost their paychecks spend benefits quickly. Medicaid Assistance: Provides a temporary increase in the Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP) for Medicaid health costs, with increases from one to four percent, at a time of increasing enrollment. These funds will prevent cuts to health insurance and health care services for low-income children and families, as well as generate business activities, jobs, wages and State sales tax revenues that States would otherwise not see. Transit: $3.6 billion to purchase buses and equipment needed to expand public transportation and to make improvements to facilities and $1 billion to meet growing demand for public transportation due to higher gas prices while reducing American gasoline consumption. Rising fuel costs have some transit agencies facing service reductions or fare increases. Public Housing: $1 billion for repair and construction projects, including critical safety repairs. Every dollar of Capital Fund expenditures produces $2.12 in economic return. Highway Infrastructure: $12.8 billion, for our nation’s aging highways and bridges, to improve safety and reduce traffic congestion. Corps of Engineers: $5 billion to invest in the nation’s water resource infrastructure with improved flood protection, navigation and hydropower and to increase the efficiency of existing water infrastructure. Fixing Crumbling Schools: $3 billion to repair crumbling schools, provide students with first class technology, and to improve energy efficiency. One-third of public school buildings need extensive repair or total replacement and two-thirds have environmental problems unhealthy for children. Clean Water: $7.5 billion for drinking water and sewer projects including $6.5 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and $1 billion for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund to repair, rehabilitate and expand water systems, many of which are over 50 years old and $300 million for Bureau of Reclamation water projects, including $98 million to provide clean, reliable drinking water to rural areas and $126 million to ensure adequate water supply to western localities impacted by drought. Airport Improvement Grants: $600 million, for projects to improve safety and reduce delays at our nation’s airports. AMTRAK: $500 million,to make necessary upgrades to tracks and stations so that Amtrak can meet growing demand due to high gas prices. This year ridership has increased by 8 percent on the Northeast Corridor and 13 percent on other corridor routes. Advanced Battery Technology Loans: $1 billion to support $3.3 billion in loans to encourage the manufacture of advanced vehicle batteries and battery systems – a key component to fuel efficient cars - in the United States. Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy: $500 million to accelerate the development of technologies that will contribute to a reliable, domestic energy supply. Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability: $100 million to modernize the electric grid, make energy infrastructure more secure and reliable, and speed recovery from disruptions to the energy supply. Food Assistance: $2.6 billion to address rising food costs for seniors, people with disabilities and very poor families with children. This year, an average of 27.8 million individuals, and 12.5 million households, received food stamps. # # #
09.17.2008	(Washington, DC) Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) voted to approve HR 6899, the Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act, a measure that will play a role to lower energy costs to families and taxpayers, invest in renewable energy sources to create good paying jobs in Southern California, as well as across the country and makes important investments in conservation and energy efficiency. The legislation passed 236-189 on September 16th, 2008. “This compromise legislation begins to make our country less dependent on foreign oil, making it an important, first step towards energy independence,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano. “HR 6899 lets our state choose whether or not to allow coastal drilling after 50 to100 miles out from our beaches, giving California the right to allow coastal drilling.” The Comprehensive American Energy Security and Consumer Protection Act also rolls back tax breaks for the big oil companies; using these taxes to invest in wind and solar energy, thereby reducing our dependence on foreign oil and would create millions of “green” jobs at home. It also calls for releasing oil from the government’s stockpile to bring down gas prices in the short term. “Our choice is clear,” Rep. Napolitano added, “side with American families or with the big oil companies. I voted to help our working families, not the oil companies.” ###
07.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) helped launch a new effort to inform and educate people on the benefits of a renewable source of power already available across much of the country: hydropower, the production of electricity through the movement of water, including hydroelectric dams that tap the movement of rivers. Napolitano joined the newly-created Congressional Hydropower Caucus to help educate other members of Congress, their staff and others about the many benefits of renewable, clean and emissions-free hydropower. Napolitano co-chairs the Hydropower Caucus with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA) and Rep. Adrian Smith (R-NE). “Hydropower is an important piece of the puzzle to achieving energy independence and addressing global climate change,” said Rep. Napolitano, adding, “Hydropower is not just dams, it is also about emerging technologies, like “wave-energy” that generates power by the movement of the ocean. There is so much potential for clean energy, but we need to harness our collective brain power and combine our efforts to utilize new and existing technologies to the fullest potential.” In addition to education, the goals of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus include: Advocating for pump storage and low-head hydro (on canals and pipelines) , where feasible, and emerging technologies such as, ocean wave, tidal and hydro-kinetic hydropower; Recognizing the value that hydropower provides as a firming resource for intermittent renewable electricity generation, including wind and solar; Promoting hydropower as a clean, renewable, emissions-free and relatively low-cost electricity generation resource, especially in the context of energy supply, electric reliability and global climate change legislation and research; Protecting current conventional hydropower generation facilities and promote conventional hydropower expansion, where appropriate; Hold informational briefings and other activities to facilitate greater awareness of hydropower. Rep. Napolitano is chair of the House Water and Power Subcommittee and a leading voice on water issues. # # #
06.27.2008	(Washington, DC) The Republicans blocked passed of H.R. 6251 yesterday by a vote of 223-195. The measure required a 2/3 vote to pass. Oil and gas companies hold leases on 68 million acres of federal land that they are not developing. This bill would have forced them to either begin producing or give up their leases. It also would have prevented them from obtaining new leases unless they can show that they are either producing or diligently developing the leases they already hold. Coal companies are required to show that they are diligently developing their leases, but oil and gas companies are not held to the same standards and have been allowed to stockpile leases, without producing any oil or gas. “On Tuesday, we tried to pass H.R. 6346 to prevent some forms of price gouging by oil companies,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano. “But by sitting on leases that could produce 4.8 million barrels a day while simultaneously demanding states open our coasts to more drilling, the oil companies and the Bush administration are just engaging in another kind of gouging.” Rep. Napolitano is a member of the House Natural Resources Committee. # # # #
06.27.2008	(Washington, DC) The House passed H.R. 6052, the “Saving Energy Through Public Transportation Act of 2008 on June 27. The legislation will provide $850 million for each of the next two years to reduce fares and expand transit services. Over $250 million of that money will go to California, including $102,835,570 for the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana metro areas and $9,608,984 for San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. “More and more Californians are turning to public transit because of rising gas prices,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano. “This bill will help ensure that our communities have access to affordable public transportation assistance.” “Despite what this administration says, offshore drilling is not a long-term recipe for energy independence and lower gas prices – it is a recipe for oil company profits,” she added. “The only responsible route to real energy independence is investment in alternative energy and fuels and in our public transportation infrastructure.” “We need mass transit services for our working families and these funds will assist our local bus service providers in attracting more riders by reducing fares.” H.R. 6052 also increases the federal share of alternative and clean fuel buses and trains and parking at end-of-line stations. Rep. Napolitano is a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. # # #
06.24.2008	(Washington, DC) Today the House passed H.R. 6331, “Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008,” by a vote of 355-59. The legislation eliminates discriminatory co-payments for outpatient psychiatric services, established grants to provide mental health services for veterans living in rural communities and increased the fee schedule for mental health services. “People in Medicare are unfairly forced to pay more for critical mental health services,” said Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38). “This legislation is an important step towards reaching parity for mental health services.” “As a strong advocate for our veterans, I am pleased that we are working to provide better access to crucial services for our veterans living in rural areas,” she added. “Tens of thousands of men and women returning from tours in Iraq and Afghanistan suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome (PTSD). We must do everything we can to ensure they have access to the help and support they need and deserve. I urge the Senate to pass this bill.” Rep. Napolitano is co-chair of the House Mental Health Caucus and a leading voice on mental health and veterans’ issues. The bill would stop would also help seniors continue to get treatment from trusted, family doctors by stopping a 10% payment reduction that would discourage physicians from taking Medicare patients. # # #
06.04.2008	NORWALK, CA – Rep. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-38) spoke on the passing of former Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner John Keys following his death in a plane crash last Friday. “We are saddened by the news of the tragic death of former Commissioner John Keys. He was a dedicated public servant who served his country well for almost forty years as part of the Bureau of Reclamation. He was a great individual to work with and was always responsive on issues important to Southern California and the Western United States. Our deepest condolences go out to his family.” Rep. Ken Calvert (CA-44) added, “John Keys was a very personable and honest man. He was a great advocate for water in the West and someone I liked and respected. John will be sorely missed and my thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends.” During his almost forty years of service, he spent over twelve years as Pacific Northwest Regional Director and his work touched all seventeen Western states with Bureau facilities, including California. The Bureau is a water management agency in charge of numerous dams, canals and hydroelectric plants across the Western United States. They are the nation’s largest wholesaler of water and the second largest producer of hydroelectric power in the West. Keys was piloting a plane over Canyonland National Park in Utah when it crashed at 10 am on Friday, May 30. Keys and one passenger were killed.
04.29.2008	(Washington D.C.) - Congress passed S. 2739 today, a bill that includes Rep. Grace F. Napolitano’s (D-Norwalk) dam site security bill, H.R. 1662. This bill caps how much water and power customers pay for the cost of security guards at Bureau of Reclamation dams. The Bureau has maintained heightened security at dams since September 11, 2001 and the measure would cap how much customers have to pay for such security at $18.9 million. The legislation will help to protect water and power ratepayers from paying more than their fair share of security cost’s at Bureau of Reclamation dams across the Western United States. “Some of these mandated, costly security measures should be federal responsibilities, not passed down to consumers throughout California and the Western United States,” said Rep. Napolitano. “With the cost of electricity and other utilities rising, this legislation is needed to prevent the bureau from passing these costs onto the backs of consumers.” Napolitano is chairwoman of the House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power and is a co-chair of the bi-partisan Congressional Water Caucus. S. 2739 also authorizes funding for: Water recycling projects in California that would help provide an estimated 52,600 acre-feet of water annually - enough water for 105,000 households for one year - and help reduce the impact of future droughts. Five water-related studies across the West to better ensure limited water resources are managed efficiently for future needs. (###)
04.29.2008	(Pico Rivera, CA) - On April 14, 2008 Pico Rivera's Matthew Archuleta was elected Vice-President of his class at West Point. Matthew is finishing his second year at West Point and will graduate i 2010. As part of the class of 2010, his motto is "Loal 'Til the End." After graduation he wants to serve his country in the infantry and eventually intends to follow in the footsteps of his father, Pico Rivera City Councilman Bob Archuleta, by serving in elected office. His older brother, Brandon, also attended West Point and was President of his class. First Lieutenant Brandon Archuleta is now serving with the 3rd Infantry in Iraq. Matthew grew up in Montebello, attending La Merced Elementary and Intermediate Schools before graduating from St. John Bosco High School in Bellflower. He entered the West Point Military Academy in June 2006. He was also chosen to be one of only five cadets selected to spend June in Ghana as part of a volunteer effort spearheaded by Women in Progress, an organization to works to alleviate poverty in Ghana by helping women start and grow their own businesses. Matthew is the youngest of the five cadets leaving for West Africa. “Over the past two years at West Point, I've faced a new challenge everyday,” he said. “I encounter failure on a daily basis. The challenge and the failure remind me that I made the right decision. I wait anxiously for each failure, knowing that with it comes an opportunity to succeed. It is an honor to serve my country and to represent my family and friends from home.” “The 38th District has a proud history of sending young people to attend West Point,” said Rep. Napolitano. “Matthew is a credit to his family, to our community and to his country.” ###
03.24.2008	Santa Fe Springs, CA - Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) will host a free housing foreclosure and predatory lending workshop with individual counseling sessions for families and residents experiencing housing, mortgage, or credit problems. The workshop will take place on Saturday, March 29th, between 9am and 12pm at the Hacienda La Puente Adult Education Willow Center, Multi-Purpose Room, 14101 East Nelson Avenue, La Puente, CA 91746. Counselors will be available from government agencies such as the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Los Angeles County Department of Consumer Affairs, and the Montebello, Norwalk, and Pomona Housing Agencies, as well as non-profits such as Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Services, ACORN Housing Corporation, and SPRINGBOARD Consumer Credit Management. These housing and credit experts will provide free, confidential advice on how you can learn to stop foreclosure, save your home and preserve your credit history. To attend this free event, please RSVP by calling (562) 801-2134 or emailing Perla.Hernandez@mail.house.gov. WHO: Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Los Angeles County Department of Consumer Affairs, Montebello, Norwalk, and Pomona Housing Agencies, Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Services, ACORN Housing Corporation, SPRINGBOARD Consumer Credit Management WHAT: Housing foreclosure and predatory lending workshop with individual counseling sessions WHEN: Saturday, March 29th 9am-12pm WHERE: Hacienda La Puente Adult Education Willow Center, Multi-Purpose Room 14101 East Nelson Avenue La Puente, CA 91746. RSVP: Call (562) 801-2134 or email Perla.Hernandez@mail.house.gov ###
03.07.2008	Washington D.C.- Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) will deliver the Democratic Hispanic Radio Address this Saturday, March 08, 2008. She will discuss the passage of H.R. 1424, the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act of 2007. This legislation ensures mental health and addiction treatment are covered the same as treatment for other medical illnesses and conditions, such as diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, and other physical illnesses. It eliminates discriminatory provisions for Americans with mental health and addiction disorders. The audio of the address will be heard through local Univisión Radio, Latino Broadcasting Company, Radio Fórmula, Radiovisa, Radio Bilingüe, and CNN en Español Radio affiliates after 11:06 a.m. ET on Saturday. The translated text of the address in English appears below:Good morning. This is Congresswoman Grace Napolitano from California, Co-Chair of the Mental Health Caucus. According to the Surgeon General, over 57 million people suffer from mental illness, while more than 26 million suffer from chemical addiction. Mental illness affects all races, genders, and ages—it does not discriminate. Historically, minorities have less access to mental health services, are less likely to receive needed mental health services, and often times receive poor quality mental health care. Particularly, Hispanics are at high-risk for depression, anxiety, and substance abuse—all mental illnesses. Adolescent Latinas are more likely than their peers to seriously consider or attempt suicide. For too long mental illness coverage has been stigmatized and treated differently by insurance companies. That is why I am proud that the House of Representatives has passed H.R. 1424, the Paul Wellstone Mental Health and Addiction Equity Act of 2007. This legislation ensures mental health and addiction treatment are covered the same as treatment for other medical illnesses and conditions, such as diabetes, asthma, high blood pressure, and other physical illnesses. It eliminates discriminatory provisions for Americans with mental health and addiction disorders. This legislation does not mandate that group health plans provide mental health coverage. However, it does require that if a company offers mental health coverage, it guarantees those plans cover the same range of mental illnesses and addiction disorders offered by the federal employee health plan that Members of Congress get. It also ensures that any financial requirements and treatment limitations applied to mental health and addiction benefits are no more restrictive or costly than the financial requirements or treatment limitations applied to medical and surgical benefits. Finally, it excludes any businesses with less than 50 employees and any businesses that experience an overall premium increase of 2 percent or more in the first year and 1 percent in subsequent years. Hispanics face unique barriers to accessing treatment for mental illness. These barriers include lack of knowledge of where to seek care, a lack of Spanish-speaking health care workers trained to meet the needs of the Hispanic community, and a cultural stigma that inhibits Hispanics from seeking mental health care. By ensuring Latino employees are provided information and access to mental health providers, this legislation takes a step toward reducing those barriers. Mental illness is also an economic issue for our country. Every year, mental illness results in 1.3 billion lost days of work or school. This costs U.S. business and economy about $150 billion annually, while chemical addiction costs us more than $400 billion annually. And the cost for all this care is miniscule. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that the impact of mental health parity on premiums is just two-tenths of one percent. We cannot afford to ignore this critical issue. Mental illness is an issue affecting quality of life. Proper care is vital to the health and well-being of our communities and schools, and while a lack of it is detrimental to our economic stability. Mental health must be recognized as equal to other health conditions and illnesses. This is Congresswoman Grace Napolitano of California. Thank you for listening. El Texto del Audio sigue:Buenos días les habla la Congresista Graciela Flores Napolitano de California, Presidenta del Grupo de Trabajo de Salud Mental del Congreso. Según al inspector general de sanidad más de 57 millones de personas sufren de enfermedad mental, mientras que más de 26 millones sufren de una adicción química. La enfermedad mental afecta a todas las razas, géneros, y edades—no discrimina. Históricamente, minorías tienen menos acceso a servicios de salud mental, tienen menos probabilidad de recibir servicios necesarios de salud mental, y la mayoría del tiempo reciben cuidado de salud mental inferior. Particularmente, hispanos tienen alto riesgo de sufrir depresión, ansiedad, abuso de drogas—todas enfermedades de salud mental. Adolescentes hispanas son mas probables de considerar seriamente o intentar suicidarse, mas que cualquier otra demografía. Por mucho tiempo la cobertura de enfermedad mental ha sido estigmatizada y tratada diferente por las compañías de seguro médico. Por eso estoy muy orgullosa de que la Cámara de Representantes aprobó H.R. 1424, el proyecto de ley Paul Wellstone de Salud Mental y Equidad de Adicción. Esta legislación asegura que la salud mental y el tratamiento de adicción sean cubiertos iguales que el tratamiento para otras condiciones y enfermedades medicas, como diabetes, asma, presión arterial, y otras enfermedades físicas. También elimina provisiones discriminatorias para estadounidenses con trastornos de salud y adicción. Esta legislación no obliga a que planes de seguro proporcionen cobertura de salud mental. Sin embargo, si una compañía de seguros ofrece cobertura para salud mental, si requiere que esa cobertura sea igual de los planes de seguro de empleados federales—la misma cobertura que recibimos los Congresistas. También asegura que los requisitos financieros y las limitaciones de tratamiento que aplican para el cuidado de salud mental sean iguales a los requisitos y limitaciones que aplican para el cuidado de enfermedades médicas y beneficios quirúrgicos. Finalmente, para que ninguna empresa pierda dinero. Esta legislación excluye la participación de las empresas que tenga menos de 50 empleados y los negocios que sufra un aumento más del 2 por ciento a la prima de seguro en el primer año y 1 por ciento en los años subsiguientes. Hispanos se enfrentan a barreras únicas para obtener acceso al tratamiento de salud mental. Estas barreras incluyen una falta de conocimiento de donde conseguir cuidado médico, una falta de trabajadores en el campo de servicios de salud que hablen español, y una estigmatización cultural que impide a que muchos hispanos consigan ayuda de salud mental. Al asegurar que empleados hispanos tengan información y acceso a proveedores de salud mental, esta legislación toma un paso hacia adelante para remover estas barreras culturales. La enfermedad mental también es una preocupación para nuestra economía. Cada año, la enfermedad mental resulta en 1.3 mil millones de días de trabajo o escuela perdidos. Esto le cuesta $150 mil millones anuales a nuestras empresas y a nuestra economía, mientras que la adicción a las drogas nos cuesta más de $400 mil millones anuales. Al contrario el costo de proporcionar servicios de salud mental es mínimo. La oficina de Presupuesto del Congreso ha estimado que el impacto de igualar las primas de salud mental con las del cuidado médico nos costaría un aumento de dos decimos de un por ciento. No podemos ignorar un tema tan crítico como este. La enfermedad mental es un tema que afecta la calidad de vida para muchos estadounidenses. Cuidado adecuado es esencial para la salud y bienestar de nuestras comunidades mientras que el no tenerlo es perjudicial para nuestra estabilidad económica. La salud mental tiene que ser tratada igual a otras enfermedades. Les hablo la Congresista Graciela Flores Napolitano de California. Gracias por escuchar. ###
02.06.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) today praised passage of H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act. The bill addresses skyrocketing tuition prices and other roadblocks on the path to a college education by reforming our higher education system to operate in the best interests of students and families while boosting our competitiveness and strengthening our economic future. Napolitano cosponsored the bill which passed by a bipartisan vote of 354 to 58. “It is critical that we make sure a college education is accessible to all of our youth, regardless of their race, religion, or socioeconomic class,” said Napolitano. “In recent years the cost of going to college has risen steadily and the American dream has become unattainable for many of our communities’ youngsters. This bill will help ensure that none of our children are denied a college education because of the cost.” Tuition and fees at public colleges have grown 31 percent after inflation in the last five years. The College Opportunity and Affordability Act builds on the historic $20 billion increase in Federal student aid enacted by Congress last year by:• Encouraging colleges to rein in price increases and provide consumers with helpful information;• Restoring integrity and accountability to the student loan programs;• Simplifying the federal student aid application process;• Making textbook costs more manageable;• Strengthening our workforce and our competitiveness;• Expanding college access and support for low-income and minority students;• Increasing college aid and support for veterans and military families;• Ensuring equal college opportunities for students with disabilities; and• Boosting campus safety and disaster readiness plans. “In this time of economic difficulty it is vital that we provide our children with the college educations they need to be competitive in the global economy,” said Napolitano. “This bill is a major step toward making college accessible to all and we will continue to work toward that attainable goal.” # # #
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – The House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power, Chaired by Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk), will hold a hearing on January 29, 2008 in Washington, DC on the federal and state role in addressing the uncertainty of California water supplies. Panelists will include Bob Johnson, Commissioner, Bureau of Reclamation; Lester Snow, Director, California Department of Water Resources; Jeff Kightlinger, General Manager, Metropolitan Water District of Southern California; Rick Frank, Member, Blue Ribbon Task Force, Delta Vision; Wally Bishop, General Manager, Contra Costa Water District; farmer Jean Sagouspe of Los Banos, CA; Larry Starrh, Starrh & Starrh Cotton Growers; Dan Nelson, Executive Director, San Luis and Delta-Mendota Water Authority; Jose Ramirez, City Manager, City of Firebaugh; and Rich Atwater, CEO and General Manager, Inland Empire Utilities Agency. In the face of a multi-year drought, continued population growth, and the impacts of climate change, the state’s water situation was further destabilized by a federal judge’s recent ruling that could severely cut water exports from the Bay-Delta estuary, which supplies much of the state’s water. Farming communities in the Central Valley of California and at least 18 million people in Southern California will receive a significant reduction in water. While the decision has spurred much debate over the long-term future of the Bay Delta as a water supply, Tuesday’s hearing will focus on what can be done now to decrease the region’s dependency on the Delta. Witnesses will explore the potential impacts of the court order and how agencies will adapt to these impacts and possible impacts. Supervisors from various regional water districts are expected to testify on their experiences with conservation programs, water smart technologies, water recycling, desalination projects, groundwater storage and other alternative supply programs. For example, Metropolitan Water District has reported that their conservation efforts have reduced regional water demands by about 15 percent. In 2007 alone, conservation reportedly provided almost 800,000 acre-feet (AF) of water – more water than the service area received from the Colorado River. (One acre foot typically meets the water needs of two Southern California families). This savings has been the result, in part, of simple solutions like low-flow shower heads and low-flush toilets. The court decision will guide Bay Delta water exports through September, when the Fish and Wildlife Service is required to issue a new Biological Opinion regarding the effects of water pumping on the threatened delta smelt. Therefore, the Bureau of Reclamation and the California Department of Water Resources will also testify on how their management of through-delta operations will be carried out through September and what steps they are taking to ensure that Federal Judges will not be determining the future of California’s water supply. The hearing will be held at 10:00 a.m. in Room 1334 of the Longworth House Office Building and will be webcast live at https://resourcescommittee.house.gov. # # #
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) tonight responded to President Bush’s final State of the Union Address by issuing the following statements: “President Bush presented no new ideas in a time when our country faces critical challenges at home and abroad. His speech underscored that he is leaving office and it is the Democratic Congress that hears the American people and will lead our country in these trying times. His message offers little hope.” On the Economy: “It is disappointing that the President who once identified himself as a compassionate conservative did not join Democrats in our push to include enabling programs such as unemployment insurance, food stamps, and Medicaid in the stimulus package. Those programs would inject immediate lifeblood into our economy right where it is needed most, at its middle class heart.” On the War in Iraq: “We need to bring our youngsters home. The current situation calls for engaging the international community and securing Iraq collectively so that we can bring our men and women home to safety.” On Veterans: “We must ensure that every veteran receives what has been promised to them. That means providing things such as support for education, training for jobs, and treatment for mental health.” On Free Trade Agreements: “We need trade agreements that are fair to American workers and small businesses. We cannot ratify trade agreements that send jobs overseas and hurt our local economy.” On Energy: “New technology in energy conservation and renewable resources can be used to drive job development. By training people in new technologies we can increase the use of things like solar panels in our homes and save energy while stimulating the economy.” On Health Care: “The times demand comprehensive health care coverage that is affordable and accessible for everybody in the community and we must make sure that all of our children get the health care they need.” On Immigration: “Immigration reform that brings people out of the shadows of society and keeps our families together is essential. It is critical that immigrants can become documented so that they receive protection from abuse and fraud.” # # #
01.26.2008	NORWALK, CA – Congresswoman Grace F. Napolitano (D-Norwalk) today hosted a community update at John Dolland Elementary School to inform and educate the community on the future of the Norwalk Tank Farm property. The Tank Farm is a decommissioned Air Force fuel supply depot that is undergoing cleanup of jet fuel contamination for future development. Residents in attendance heard presentations from the invited panelists that represented the Tank Farm Restoration Advisory Board, the Air Force, the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Parsons Environmental Corporation, Kinder Morgan Pipelines, and the City of Norwalk. “Today’s community update provided a great opportunity for Norwalk residents and our local community to learn about the scope of contamination and the current and future cleanup operations,” said Napolitano. “We must work together to fully remediate this property quickly so that it can be redeveloped to create jobs and public benefits for Norwalk residents.” The Norwalk Tank Farm is a 51.07-acre facility owned by the Air Force and operated by the Defense Energy Support Center that was a critical fuel supply depot since the 1940s. The Tank Farm contains 12 aboveground empty storage tanks that stored Jet Propellant 5 and Jet Propellant 8 fuel before it was decommissioned in 2001. The site is bordered by residences to the North, South, and West, and Holifield Park to the East. Cleanup has been underway since 1995 to remove the contamination which consists of fuel product, benzene, and other petroleum hydrocarbons. The City has zoned the property to be developed for light industrial, commercial, and open space uses. The City of Norwalk has requested that 15 acres of the open space section be dedicated for the expansion of neighboring Holifield Park. Congresswoman Napolitano has been involved with the Tank Farm since her tenure on the Norwalk City Council in the late 1980’s. She has facilitated many meetings between the City, the Federal Government, and all responsible parties to ensure that strong remediation efforts are taken to mitigate the human health risks and redevelop the property. “I hope members of the local community left today’s update with a better understanding of the concerns surrounding the Tank Farm,” said Napolitano. “By working together we can turn this site into a place that all residents will benefit from.” # # #
